ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u1	The session is open. The agenda is published in the Official Bulletin of the Parliament of Galicia, which is why it is not read. There was no justification for inattentiveness and, therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we enter the agenda starting with the first point, which is from legislative texts. Debates and votes of Commission opinion 6th, Industry, Energy, Trade and Tourism, on the Legislative Decree and the recast text of the legislative provisions of the Autonomous Community of Galicia on industrial policy
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u2	You have the floor for the presentation of the commission's dictation to Commission 6th President, Industry, Energy, Trade and Tourism, Ms Cristina Romero Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u3	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good morning to all of you, ladies and gentlemen. The Legislative Decree approving the consolidated text of the legislative provisions of the Autonomous Community of Galicia on industrial policy, following its adoption by the Council of Galicia at its meeting on 12 February 2015, was entered in the register of Parliament, with its predecessors, on 16 February 2015 with the number of seats 33702. The Bureau of Parliament, at its meeting on 17 February, issued its publication in the Official Bulletin of the Parliament of Galicia and the opening of the deadline for the submission of objections to recast, which ended on 19 March. Within the deadline set for this purpose, an objection was tabled by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, document number 35463, which the Bureau of Parliament, at its meeting on 23 March 2015, admitted to the proceedings, and proposed its transfer to Commission 6th, Industry, Energy, Trade and Tourism, for the issuance of the dictation within a maximum of two months, as well as its publication in the Official Bulletin of the Parliament of Galicia. Subsequently, the Commission 6th, at its meeting on 22 April, following the corresponding debate and after the rejection of the objection made by the Socialists' Parliamentary Group, approved the dictatorship, so it believes that the Council of Galicia made the right use of this legislative delegation on industrial policy contained in the last tenth third provision of Law 14/2013, of 26 December, of the rationalization of the autonomous public sector. It is therefore necessary to complete this procedure with the debate and approval, where appropriate, of the Commission's 6th Ditam, Industry, Energy, Trade and Tourism, on the legislative decree so that the recast text of the legislative provisions of the Autonomous Community of Galicia on industrial policy is approved. Nothing else and thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u4	Thank you. Round of groups to set position on the ditam. For the Mixed Group, Mrs. Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u5	Thank you, President. Good morning to all and to all. I will support the return presented by the Socialist Party for the reasons set out in its objections to the decree. To begin with, the decree comes to recast two laws that do not respond to the same objectives. On the one hand, the Industrial Security Act 9/2004, and the Industrial Policy Act 13/2011. The Industrial Safety Act aims at ordering industrial safety to ensure the safety of industrial establishments, installations and products in Galicia. In Law 9/2004, industrial safety is defined as "the prevention and risk limitation activities, protection against accidents and accidents arising from industrial activity and capable of causing damage or harm to people, goods or the environment". Law 13/2011, regulating industrial policy, aims to determine the bodies and entities of the autonomous public sector for the planning and promotion of industrial activity, to discipline the legal regime of clusters as private sector agents, particularly relevant in the field of industrial activity, and to design the precise instruments for the effective and efficient implementation of planning and promotion activities. So it's about recasting a security law into the industry with a law regulating industry and clusters. Law 13/2011, in its explanatory statement, collects: "The present law is conceivable as multidisciplinary, as it also involves the promotion and planning of Galicia's economic activity." So we are in the presence of an action by the Board that does not have its explanation for achieving the objectives set out in Law 14/2013, of rationalization of the public sector, and on which this decree is based. Article 36 of Law 14/2013, in the fundamental objectives of the rationalization law, says: "The Administration of the Autonomous Community of Galicia shall seek to maintain a stable and simplified regulatory framework, which facilitates rapid and comprehensible knowledge of regulatory matters." But this is not the case, since the provisions of Law 13/2011 do not have any relation to Law 9/2004 or respond to any general interest. So we're facing a new act of electoral propaganda from the People's Party in an attempt to create a false illusion that the Union is worrying about industrial policy. This decree is more frivolity than the totally unnecessary board, when it has since 2011 been violating Galician Industrial Policy Regulatory Law and allowing it to triumph over the law of the jungle. Together is looking for immediate results in advertising, headlines on unemployment reduction, but it is not willing to work to create stable jobs and decent wages. Betting for services, tourism and hospitality, seafood and the Santiago Way, i.e. precarious employment, linked to timeliness and with little added value. Betting for an industrial future for Galicia will only be credible and real when we are able to reach a country agreement over supportive differences, because we live in a deindustrialised country, where 95.5% of companies are microenterprises. Only a political agreement that guarantees stability in industrial policy planning and design will be able to achieve investments and attract innovative talent. At the beginning of 2014, of the 12,676 industrial companies registered at the INE, 4,930 have no employees. Only 344 industrial companies outnumbered 50 workers, of whom only 275 did not reach 59. Only 11 companies exceeded 500 people. The companies of 1 or 2 employees accounted for 66.6% of the total of the Italian industrial enterprises in 2014. Reality shows that Union has not fulfilled any of its duties under Law 13/2011. In Article 6, the board of directors of the Galician industry should approve the plan. It would have to be approved its preliminary draft at six months of the entry into force of the law, i.e. in June 2011. In Article 7, the relevant industry advisor should carry out prior assessments of the impact of public actions on the industrial fabric and propose and approve impulse programmes, declare an investment for a strategic industrial project. It takes time, but of course, there are no reports, no studies, no assessments of industrial plans or the impact of public actions on industry. To finish, I just want to tell the board that, if you want, and taking advantage of your president's presence here, if you really want to develop an industrial plan for Galicia, I'm sure you'll have all the opposition, for propaganda you're worth it yourself. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u6	Thank you. For the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Adán Villamarín has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u7	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. The Galician Nationalist Block, as you have already done in committee, will vote against this dictatorship and support the Socialist Party's proposal for its return. We understand that this legislative decree does not contribute anything and that it joins the typical industrial policy that follows the People's Party and that we were able to see in the last plenary session, in Mr. Conde's appearance to explain the Competitiveness Agenda. The councillor, in this gallery, said he needed the opposition proposals. Since the opposition, in particular from the Galego Nationalist Block, we have proposed that this Competitiveness Agenda, which is, in theory, the Director of Industry Plan, be registered in this Parliament and we have had the opportunity to make motions for resolutions and be able to debate them in committee and in full. Today we still hope that the advisor will carry out that record of this Competitiveness Agenda. Because the truth is that industrial policy passes through the Agenda between self-comprehensiveness, we could say, and decision. And I say I'm determined because the German government's industrial and economic policy leads us to data that are frankly terrifying. We can still see that in the industrial areas of Galicia, Ferrol is unemployed by 25.9%; Vigo is 24.1% and Pontevedra by 24.7%. The deindustrialization of Galicia is growing, and none of the laws that have been taken forward by the Faijóo governments, either the Industrial Policy Act, either the Innovation Law or the Entrepreneurship Law, tried to change this situation, but they were texts loaded with letters but without any concretion. We can see how, if we go to a legislative decree that talks about Igape, it gives no solution to the situation in which this entity is located. So, with really worrying economic data, with a falling industrial sector, for example, brought the following just for us to think about. How is the Greek economy found in the year 2014? If we compare it, for example, to the Spanish economy – which is not to throw rockets either – the Spanish economy has grown more than triple than the German economy. So, the Spanish economy, 1.4%; and the Galician economy, 0.4%. As it is easy to predict, this different pace has become apparent in almost every area, and mainly in employment figures. If in the Spanish state the workers and the employed were raised by 2.5 per cent, they were reduced, instead, in Galicia. This situation should lead us to a deep reflection, not to present this legislative decree that the truth will not change in any way the industrial situation of Galicia, nor will the Competitive Agenda do, as the various announcements paid by the Industry Council do. We must remember that it is the advice most spent on institutional propaganda to promote its policies. This past year, 2 million euros. The more the Industry Council spends on promoting that Galicia is doing well, that we have ideas, that there is enterprise, that Galicia is a reliable country, that really in promoting entrepreneurs. That's why, as I said, we're going to vote against this legislative decree, which in any case we can call it harmless. The industry, with it or without it, will continue as bad as it is right now.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u8	Thank you, Mrs. Adam. For the Parliamentary Group of the Left-wing Galician Alternative, Mr. Antón Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u9	Good morning. I was excited by the congratulations of the People's Party Group to Mrs. Paula Prado for the beatification process that is happening. I have nothing personal against Mrs. Paula Prado, but I mean it explains very well what the People's Party understands by democratic regeneration. Everything that is not judicial is political. I suppose, when it is shown that counting tickets in a car is not a crime, it will also rehabilitate Mr. Rus. Well, we're also going to oppose the ruling on the recast text of industrial policy laws, because it's the usual tactic of governing doing what is done but not doing anything. The result does not improve original texts, there is no effort to improve and harmonise the text, but to remove the only points that made commitments in the previous law. What is interesting is to go back to the industrial law of 2011 and check what the People's Party did, or rather what it didn't do, with the instruments it announced as panacea for the development and industrial planning of this country. To know what's done with the industrial plan, or what's not done. The advisor told us that the Industry 4.0 Competitiveness Agenda was that industrial plan. Well, that's a haircut, the industrial plan should set, as stated in the law, deadlines, resources, concretes, for a country called Galicia and for a country that has certain productive sectors and does not have others, and not a document that is worth the same for the United States as for France and for the Netherlands. The law talked about sectoral strategic plans. Where is the strategic plan for the dairy sector? Where is the strategic plan for the energy sector? Where's the strategic plan for the naval? Well, we don't know them. So it's interesting to see the degree of compliance this government has with its commitments and its announcements. The important thing is also to take stock of how the situation was when this government arrived and how it is now, how it was in the energy sector, in the wind sector, and how it is now. It's worse, it's worse; I know, as Mr Arias said last week, it's by the inherited inertia of the Bipartite. Well, another coat of hair after six years of government. I think this last year's worsening is better for the inertia inherited from the early years of the People's Party's government. How is the industrial sector, industrial employment, when you arrived, and how is it now? Worse. How's the naval? How's the naval today? Well, in terms of employment, it's at the 2005 level. How's the dairy sector? How did the actions of this government on the necessary transformation of milk into manufactured products and added value result? What were the performances and what were the results? It's interesting. It is also interesting to hear again empty words, empty slogans, of competitiveness, of R+D+i, of repeating those same words that were said four years ago. From R+D+i they can say what they want. The reality is, since you govern, you have descended in absolute terms and in relative terms investment in R+D+i. And since they rule, hundreds of researchers from this country have emigrated. And since they've ruled, they've dismantled research teams that are very hard to create, put into operation, and then it'll take a lot of time to get back to the state they were in when you arrived. So one thing is the words, the repetition in the promises of a government that has occupied power for six years, and another is the realities and prospects that you leave with these years of government. So our opposition to this way of appearing to be done. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u10	Mr Losada has the floor for the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u11	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen. The Socialist Group, which actually put forward a written opposition to this ruling, will vote against it, adopted by the votes of the People's Party in committee. And, of course, we believe that everything in the commission is maintained, despite the battery that has existed since then in connection with this issue; I say advertising battery and propaganda from the German Government. I am going to focus primarily on current issues, because I think they perfectly reflect how we move forward in terms of productive economy. Today's registered unemployment data comes out. I was telling the councillor the other day that it would be good for someone in the People's Party to reflect or try to explain why this is the only autonomous community in which the number of social security affiliates grows much less than the decrease in unemployment, the only one. I have here the data from the Ministry of Labour report today – so to prevent Mr Feijóo from saying they are given to the ticket. Well, finally, exactly half. We all know what the reasons, counsellor, reasons are disillusioned, aging and emigration. But I would like you to tell us, because it would be a way forward. Yesterday you also introduced or constituted the Galician Council of Economics and Competitiveness. After all, only two years of delay, exactly the same as this one dictates. The press release was July 13, 2013. It was good for the president of the board for the round of San Caetano on Thursday, with which the two years of delay of this dictation we also take them in terms of the Galego Council of Economics and Competitiveness, which I suppose you try to supplement with the Galicia Industry 4.0 Competitiveness Agenda. Yesterday the Government of Spain also introduced the revision of the 2015 National Plan for Reforms, which is the document sent to the European Union and which marks the lines of action in terms of fiscal policy and economic policy – and therefore industrial policy – that the kingdom of Spain – as it well puts it – will maintain in Brussels. To save you your search job, support for industrial competitiveness, heading AGAGF2C552AGS annual growth survey, that's exactly what you're talking about. Not a single word on these 271 pages of Industry 4.0, not a single word, not in this review or in the previous one. I understand that your government goes to the economic vanguard of Europe, along with Flanders or southern Holland, and probably Baden-Würtemberg, but actually I keep the position I said from the beginning, Mr. Counsellor: advertising and propaganda. Because look, the social security affiliations in industry last year grew to 421 people, between March 2015 and March 2014. To get those 50,000 new busy we need 120 years. Not bad, we're going at the right pace. But this is not the worst of this whole issue of advertising and propaganda. He spoke of the BNG's voice of the absolutely scandalous expenses in advertising his counseling, which is evidently so. The bad thing is that this advertising and propaganda are not just trying to hide results in bad industrial terms. And I think it's an incompetence in terms of management, beyond that question that you tell us about how to account for budget execution. But what you don't really want to talk about, you, your government and the People's Party where you rule, is other things. Look, it's from these headlines: "Wage inequality increases. The executives' salaries rose by more than 10% in 2014 and those of the employees dropped by 0.6%." "The profitability of the great Greek heritage has grown by 12% in the first quarter of this year." Of all these issues related to inequality, poverty, with a society in which, regardless of the macroeconomic data – which in Galicia are worse than in Spain – regardless of this data, the situation of social inequality and therefore of the difficulties of normal people to develop their lives and their vital projects are getting bigger, this is what you, Counsellor, don't want to talk about. That's why they talk to us about industry 4.0, and they fake reality when they say they asked for contributions from parliamentary groups, both on this issue and on the question of the so-called RIS3. Anyway, all this battery we've been used to.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u12	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u13	Finished, Madam President. But the data, Mr. Counsellor, beyond advertising and propaganda, from metallengage, are there. The fall in occupation in the Welsh industry since Mr. Feijóo's rule was 25%, and the fall in production of 20%, not even in industrial conversion of the 1980s. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u14	Thank you very much, Mr. Losada. For the Popular Group, Mr. Arias Veira.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u15	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Well, we have to make a clarification, exactly what we're going to vote on, exactly what this item is about. Because the opposition said we don't want to debate things. There are 29 points on the agenda of this plenary, there are a lot in the committees, here we debate everything, the divine and the human. Obviously with absolute freedom of approach, but we have to clarify exactly what we are going to vote on. We shall vote on a legislative decree. What is a legislative decree? This guy who is approved of a consolidated text; that is, we're going to try to vote in favour, against, abstention, etc. on a recast of two laws: the Industrial Policy Act and the Industrial Security Act, which are related. I mean, what you're doing is this, a text that reshapes laws. It is therefore essentially a problem of the internal functioning of the Public Service. We are going to discuss whether or not rationalization in industrial legislation, economic policy and industry is appropriate, whether this rationalization is appropriate. We consider it appropriate on the subject of opportunity, first of all, not of legality, of opportunity. Why? Because there's a policy of the Galician Union of Public Sector Rationalization. I mean, as a whole, the model of this Government's Galician Union is what it says is that we need to simplify the laws, we're going to try to simplify 25% of the laws. Why? Because this facilitates control, facilitates clarity, facilitates transparency, facilitates internal management. That's so obvious that it almost gives me a little cut to insist on these so obvious points. So it's already been done in the Law of Universities, in the Law of Heritage, and it's going to be done in many other laws. The subject of legality. Is it legal or not the content of this legislative decree? Yes, ladies and gentlemen, I am surprised, because some parties, and in particular the Socialist Party, in the commission had said that there are elements of legality, because all legislative decrees pass through the Consultative Council, there is a huge control of guarantees of legality in this House, in these institutions, so that what we can vote here is legal, which has the unanimity of the Consultative Council. What is the Advisory Council? The Advisory Council is also an advisory and judicial body of the legality of this institution, where it is, for example, President Touriño, where there are many members who have been appointed by their lordships from different parliamentary groups. I don't understand how you can name people for the Advisory Council and then go against them and say that those people are not knowing how to perform their role as legal consultants. So that's the whole point. What are the points that were mentioned in the commission? What changes? Practically nothing. What changes? Changes a point slightly. That is to say, it is a point of an additional provision where it was said that a preliminary draft of a master plan, a preliminary draft of an additional provision in the law in 2011 when this government had not yet been changed and the huge tariff deficit in the electricity sector did not appear publicly, which with so many billions of tariff deficits gave rise to extraordinary policies of change in the Government of the State with regard to energy, wind, etc. So it couldn't be, which is leading to a restructuring of a number of logical demands by those in favour of the electrical sector subsidies that made this sector virtually unable to be programmed from a perspective of specific management plan as we have agreed. Instead, we are proposing policies, policies such as those which Mr. Conde came here the other day, which are specific policies of what will be done, resources, guidelines and reports. And, therefore, we think that this is replaced by politics. With regard to the other, the Galeco Industry Council was simplified, because there could be two, one by the Entrepreneurship and Competitiveness Act and one by the Industrial Policy Act. One is removed to merge into another, which seems to be a clear administrative rationalization. By these terms, it seems to me that it is almost obvious, and I am surprised by the incomprehensible negative opposition groups to the adoption of this useful, coherent, concrete legislative decree and, as it were, of common interest. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u16	Thank you very much, Mr Arias. Debates and voting on the opinion of the Committee on Health, Social Policy and Employment on the Legislative Decree on the recast text of the legislative provisions of the Autonomous Community of Galicia on equality
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u17	You have the floor, for the presentation of the commission's dictation, the chairman of Commission 5th, Health, Social Policy and Employment, Ms. Marta Rodríguez Arias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u18	Thank you, Madam President. The Legislative Decree approving the consolidated text of the legislative provisions of the Autonomous Community of Galicia in the field of equality, following its adoption by the Council of Galicia at its meeting on 12 February, was entered into the Register of Parliament with its predecessors on 16 February, with the number of seats 33672. The Bureau of Parliament, at the February 17th Meeting, issued its publication in the Official Bulletin of the Parliament of Galicia, and the opening of the deadline for the submission of objections to recast, which ended on March 19th. Within the time limit set for this purpose, an objection was raised by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, document number 35462, which the Bureau of Parliament, at its meeting on 23 March 2015, admitted the procedure and proposed its transfer to Commission 5th, Health, Social Policy and Employment for the issuance of dictation within a maximum of two months, as well as its publication in the Official Bulletin of the Parliament of Galicia. Subsequently, Commission 5th, Health, Social Policy and Employment, at its meeting on 22 April, following the corresponding debate and after the rejection of the objection by the Socialist Group of Galicia with 5 votes in favour and 7 against, approved the ruling with 7 votes in favour and 5 against; so it believes that the Council of Galicia made a correct use of this legislative delegation on equality contained in the last 10th provision of Law 14/2013, of 26 December, of the rationalisation of the autonomous public sector. It is therefore necessary to complete the process of this procedure by adopting, where appropriate, the Commission's Opinion 5th, Health, Social Policy and Employment on the Legislative Decree and approving the consolidated text of the legislative provisions of the Autonomous Community of Galicia in the field of equality.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u19	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Arias. The turn of parliamentary groups to set their position. [[Pause.]] For the Joint Group, Mrs. Iglesias Sueiro.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u20	Good morning, ladies. Thank you, President. I denounce from this lecture that this government does not comply with the laws, as evidenced by the news of La Voz de Galicia on April 22, 2015: "Equality condemned for not reconciling hours to a working mother social worker in Lugo. Together, she refused to make her schedule more flexible in day-care centres where she was working. And the High Court of Justice has just confirmed the conviction after having appealed against the previous court of Lugo." The precarious work, the significant weight of women's part-time work and the strong deterioration of the working conditions of those who still keep their jobs have a significant impact on women's wages. And, as it turns out, lower wages are linked to smaller benefits and a very reduced social well-being. This is the result of an economic and social model based on conservative, neoliberal and retrograde ideology that governs us, which aims to eliminate progress in equality which is long fought and achieved by feminists and class trade unionism. Advances in employment equality, training, access to political and economic responsibilities, which now, by adding all the factors at stake, are clearly in reverse. I accuse this government and the government of the misogynistic state of maintaining an educational law that promotes segregation and abandons co-education as a basic element in modifying an unequal reality. I accuse this government and the Government of the State of their ideological stances and legislative actions that eliminate women's right to decide on their own motherhood: they try to eliminate the right to abortion, on the one hand; and on the other hand, they deny their assisted reproduction of lesbian women. I also accuse them of labour policies and reforms with evident discriminatory content, which, together with measures such as cuts in public services and social budgeting of care to the dependence, child education and other care services, expel women from employment. It is necessary to shake consciences, change mentalities, change retrograde realities, all these common elements of critical and emancipating thought of feminism. We need to look at those aspects of inequality that the ideological current that governs us wants to disguise with texts like what we are debating so they go unnoticed. But reality is very different. In the last five years, 50,900 women's jobs have been lost; and on the other hand, they have increased part-time and non-chosen employment. Today in Galicia 1 out of 4 women has a contract, salary and future partial benefits. This data is especially serious in younger women, to whom this government offers only two exits: emigration or a life marked by temporality and partiality. Partial lives, cut lives, precarious lives, women who give up expectations of finding a job after years of waiting for a job in an increasingly male labour market, where women and all the social burden associated with care and maternity are considered a production problem. Payroll, cuts in benefits, services and social guarantees, sexual and reproductive rights, constitute a model of society where inequality increases between rich and poor, women and men. I think my posture is quite clear. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u21	Thank you, Mrs Iglesias. For the Galician Nationalist Block Group, you have the floor for Mrs. Adam.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u22	Thank you, President. Good morning, again. Another legislative decree which provides absolutely nothing but which leads us to a general reflection on equality policies in this case. It has already been exposed by the honourable Member who preceded me in the use of the word the employment situation of women in Greece: it has increased the wage gap in recent years; it has increased the precariousness; it has reduced the wages of women in Greece from 2009 to 2013 to 1.4%; lower pensions; problem for conciliation; reduction, for example, of health professionals in the FOCs; replacement of schools that are segregated by gender and their subsidies, and also with great defence of this situation; we are waiting for a plan of equality in Greek education, where we see that it follows the disproportionateness between women who are teachers and those who enter leadership positions. In this situation – which we could go for the kid and we wouldn't get all five minutes but all morning – what we're proposing on the part of the Greek Government is to take three texts of a completely different nature, with completely different theoretical approaches, mix them up and make, we could say, a remix. We have a law of 2004, a really very skeletal law, a law that at that time was already a defective law and that had some important features in its formulation and in the measures it proposed, and which did not count with the favorable vote at that time of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego; a law, the Law of 2007, of equality of women in Galicia's work, which was based on two basic issues, conciliation from the municipal optics and equality in the employment of women; and a later law – Feijóo– in which the Galician Equality Service is eliminated, actually leaving equality policies without a body in a given government – for example, we think of the next legislation – can assume the policies of equality. It's just going to depend on the Government's will to what rank that secretariat or general address is going to be. Of course, an absolutely incomprehensible pity. I would like to remind you that there is also a law of violence, and there is also a decree that governs a unity that is more ranked than anyone at this time in equality policies, such as the Women's and Science Commission. Well, with all this situation, what's a remittance that doesn't bring anything at all, what it takes us is that the Employment Equality Policy Act gets blurred and mixed with the other law. And what we find is that if we have developed articles such as Article 30 of the German Women's Employment Plan, or Article 31 of entrepreneurship promotion, or the visibility and valorization of women's activities, or the integration of equality in labour intermediation, any of these articles really goes to the bottom of the matter, while other articles, which talk about the media or about teaching and which come from the law of 2004, are actually very skeleton. So the normal thing would be to draw up a new law on equality policies that would unite all the legislation that has been constructed over the last few years, not that this legislative decree had been made. But seeing how the People's Party has acted in its implementation of the policies of equality and the real reduction and the patriarchal bias that it has in those policies of equality, the truth is that it is better to make this remedy, which is absolutely harmless – that it is the same as not to do it. It has a supposed advertising effect, placebo, gives the feeling that we're doing something because it's being debated. I suppose the officials and the officials took a job doing this writing. Also after all the legal advice the gender impact report. But in the lives of women, this legislative decree is exactly the same as what your report says: it has no economic cost, no favour. This legislative decree has no impact on equality policies, no impact on the lives of the Greek women who have lower wages, are precarious, and at the moment, besides, they have the highest pay gap in the whole of Spain and Europe. If they wanted to do something, they could apply Galician women's work law on an equal footing. To just make literature they could, right?, have saved this effort. I think there's also inconsistencies from the point of view of what equality policies and their trajectory are in the last 20 years. Really, when you read this law, what's left was... well, I'm going to look for a word that's not too offensive, it was a churro, the mix of laws of very different nature and very different perspective. The only positive thing, I say, is that it's totally harmless.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u23	Thank you, Mrs. Adam. For the Parliamentary Group of the Gaga de Left Alternative, Mrs Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u24	Thank you, President. So, reiterating the position held in Commission 5 on 22 March, we also maintain the position and direction of vote held at that meeting. As I have already expressed on that same day, we are faced with the recasting of several legal texts which did not appear to be necessary priori, nor do they directly have to do with each other more than talk about equality. The Government of the Union approved, through the tenth third provision of Law 14/2013, of 26 December, of the rationalisation of the public sector, the elaboration of several consolidated texts. That is, it seems that text recasting results in an end rather than a legislative tool, a tool that should exist to ensure greater concreteity and clarity in the texts of a matter where there is an excess of legislation. And as we're seeing, it's not the case, it doesn't look like the case of equality. We do not understand how in this case there are only two binding laws – 7/2014 and 7/2010 – this type of legislative practice is used. But we do not understand it, as we have already reflected in the committee and have commented here, when Law No. 2/2007 of 28 March 2007 on equal work is practically without development, and when legislation on equality – as we are unfortunately seeing through the participations in the Equal Rights Committee of Women – is clearly showing itself insufficient to guarantee equality of women's rights. I said that too that day, despite the legislation which obliges us to take measures on equality in all areas of our lives, which obliges us to take measures to achieve co-responsibility, or which requires us to take measures – as has been said here – to reduce this wage gap, that precariousness and the impoverishment of women's purchasing capacity in our country, nothing is really being done in this matter. So it seems unnecessary not only to carry out a text recast in this matter but also to make it necessary for the Government to work on real measures that would actually improve women's lives. It is true, as I said in the committee, that some recommendations from the Advisory Council were included to avoid the deletion of various aspects contained in Law 2/2007. Because unfortunately, despite the fact that we are saying that there is no need and that there is no improvement, even before that amendment, the People's Party had planned to bring down various aspects of equality at work. In addition to the additional fifth and seventh provisions of Law 12/2007, which are repealed, it is true that they are partially included in Article 6 of the recast text. But really what results – as has already been said here – is a mix of several legal texts that have nothing to do with, really with an unlucky result and, of course, nothing necessary. I repeat that it does not therefore bring any real improvement to women, and it leaves, moreover, as referred to on the 22nd day questions about the attributes of the Galego Council of Women. Article 6 of the text recast at its second point gives the Galego Council of Women the powers, powers, and powers, which underpins the long-lasting Galego Council of Women's Participation in Employment and Labour Relations; attributes which also collected Decree 181/2006, but which remain in the air, without knowing what appropriations this body will have to carry out in order to carry out these measures when they were no longer guaranteeing rights in the field of work. Therefore, no improvement. We understand that this recast provides absolutely nothing, that women find themselves in the same situation of inequality and that the real mission of a government that if they were concerned about equality is to put into practice real enforcement measures of the laws themselves that are already in force – which are unfortunately not being fulfilled – to ensure the effective reality of the rights that are written on paper but never put into practice. So we understand that what this government is doing is actually a series of measures that are totally against equality, as can be the labour reform itself supported by the central government and also supported here in Galicia. And, of course, by keeping our vote in committee, we will also vote against this dictatorship.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u25	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. For the Socialist Group, you have the floor to Mrs Acuña do Campo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u26	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies. Welcome, Counselor. We are pleased that you have an interest in this recast text that concerns your department. What's going on is that you're hardly gonna hear from the debate anymore, because it's over. You'll have to come a little more punctual again. Ladies and gentlemen, from the Socialist Parliamentary Group we reject the recast text that Mr Feijóo is putting forward for equality, and that is why we object to it on his day. It's not a question of disagreeing with a formula that, well applied, and for other matters, might even be useful, but we think it doesn't make sense to apply it to equality. The recasting, the revision, can serve for those subjects with a long legislating periple that accumulate old, sufficiently and varied legislation, for laws that over the years may have undergone many changes, including contradictions or overlaps with other legislative texts, causing legislative confusion. Well, in those cases, nothing to object, as long as that recast is done well. But here's what Mr Feijóo, with that rabieslator who came into him -- I suppose to cash, to make him do something -- decides to apply this method to five subjects, including equality. Of course, of these five, three have already been on their way, and he only did two: that of industry and that of equality. But besides, he did them wrong. But let's start by analyzing how long the legislative periple of our autonomous community is in the matter of equality. Well, in Galicia we have three own legislative texts in this matter. As has already been said here, a law of equality raised in 2004 under the rule of Mr. Fraga, a poor, incomplete text, adopted only with the votes of the People's Party, and two laws of the progressive era – which, by the way, have not even bothered to unfold, Mr. Rueda –, a law on work in equality, solid, complete and deep, and another to fight against gender violence which in his day was pioneer, was novel and served as a model. But the Government, which in theory says that it excludes this recast, in practice contains enough to cut it down a little bit. But besides, the result of this merger, ladies and gentlemen, is a text that is shown and with two arms: an atrophic arm, which is the equal law of the Fraga Government; and another robust, strong and complete arm, which is the equal law at work. So, by putting them together, it stands out even more than the Fraga Law destined that it is not in consonance. Ladies and gentlemen, if the recast sought to harmonise, what it can do is to leave us a text incomplete and, in addition, unbalanced. But besides, this measure can lead to confusion, it can make Galicia believe that it counts with a text on harmonic equality and well-founded, when in fact it counts with a bad taste. In the face of this disaster, one wonder why. If it doesn't harmonise, if it doesn't reorganize, if it doesn't synthesize, what can it be behind this recast? And, as always, we suppose the politics of the People's Party: cut and suppress. But in honor of the truth I have to say that this legislative decree serves something, Mrs. Adam. Yes, it serves to demonstrate once again the lack of interest that the Government of the People's Party, the Government of Mr. Feijóo and the whole People's Party have in relation to equality, and both legislating and budgeting, for if to legislate they comply with recasting and cutting so recent and so scarce legislation in the matter of equality, at the time of budgeting, for another disaster. As it is evidenced and very clear in memory, in the economic memory of this recast, this government so concerned by equality is allocating 0.007% of the budget of the entire Union for this matter. So, ladies and gentlemen, we are clear that with this recast, Feijóo, in equality, no laws or money. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u27	Thank you very much, Mrs. Acuña. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Oubiña.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u28	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning to all of you. Welcome, Counsellor, to this debate. Never, ladies and gentlemen, the process of regulatory recasting has been the subject of partisan dispute, they are merely administrative acts, as you know, which do not entail the amendment of the current legislation and which must also count on the favourable report of the advisory body certifying that the said recast has not deviated from that content prior to the norm. What are the reasons and what is the purpose of merging equality laws? As an example, as you know, both the 2004 Law on equality of men and women and the 2007 Act on equal work for women in Galicia, are affected by subsequent rules which have derogated or modified many of their precepts, so that it is essential to end the spread of legislation in order to facilitate a faster and more understandable understanding of the applicable legislation on equality. The purpose is simply to manage legislation in force, taking into account the current dispersal, as well as the numerous regulatory changes made in this area. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, it is about synthesizing and articulating in a single text the laws or rules that affect the same object, which in this case is equality, but without altering the existing regulation. Management and legislative simplification work is positive for citizens, it is positive for the Administration, and also for those entities that work, in this case, on the issue of equality. Thus, Law 14/2013, of rationalization of the autonomic public sector, includes this faculty. In that sense, the recast text, as you know, cannot introduce new regulations, can only raise issues already regulated by rules that are object of recast. So we can't talk about absences or shortcomings in this legislative decree of equality, because we're talking about recasting, not modifying or suppressing, which, as you know, would have another process. In other words, it is limited to fulfilling the parliamentary mandate set out in the law, which also has favourable reports – including that of the Galicia Advisory Council –. It's more, you yourself recognize here that the text is the same, that you ultimately know what it's all about. Consequently, the attitude of opposition groups to this initiative is not understood. This is an unprecedented stance of the opposition, since the objections presented here today to the text recast on equality are purely opportunistic. In any case, I would say that if you don't like recasting and you prefer to dispersal regulation, you should have expressed yourself when discussing the law that included this authorization. And it must be remembered that at that time, in other words, the Socialist Group did not present any amendments to its articulation to eliminate the authorization of recasting. Therefore, we must defend the rigor and legislative activity of the Union, which will be geared towards equipping Galicia with a clearer, more understandable and more accessible legal order for the administration, and thus, without any doubt, giving more legal certainty to the administration. The legislative activity of the Union was centered on this and the previous legislation in renewing laws of very old approval – we said in the Commission 5th in which it was discussed – before the year 2000. Regarding the modification of some of the more recent laws, they have a simple object to adapt them to the legislative changes of the State's basic legislation. To finish – because I'm running out of time – it must be said that you, gentlemen, don't want to talk about regulatory recast here, you intend to talk about other things here. It is unheard that the opposition attempts to boycott the work of mere regulatory order, such as the recasting of rules with a rank of law. This consolidated text complies with the parliamentary mandate set out in the law. So we're going to support this recast. Nothing more and thank you very much. [[Applause]] Debate taken into account by the G.P. of the Galician Nationalist Block, of the General Plan for Standardization of the Greek Language
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u29	For the presentation of the bill, you have the floor to Mrs. Pontón Mondelo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u30	Thank you very much, Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, this year 2015 commemorates the 60th anniversary of a historic fact that seems simple, but it really changed the history of the United States. On December 1, 1955, Rosa Parks, Afro-American, seamstress, activist of the National Assembly for the Advancement of the Color People, refused to change his seat on the bus for a white man to sit down. US segregationist laws at that time prevented black people from sitting in front of the bus. So when a colored person, who were most users of the U.S. bus system, wanted to take a bus, he had to go ahead, take the bus, get out and get in the back door, if he wanted to sit down. However, on December 1, 1995, Rosar Parks refused, was arrested, and that night he slept in the dungeon. But his gesture, his rebellion, was the turning point that led to a profound change in the U.S. legislation, which ended with the abolition of these segregationist laws. It was the point of launching a struggle and one of the most important achievements of the whole movement that the United States was demanding in the end of these segregationist laws and which, through peaceful means, demanded and demanded equality and justice. We, ladies and gentlemen, like Rosa Parks, defend dignity and equality. We defend that the Greek stop traveling in the back of the bus. We defend policies that end with discrimination and the marginalization of our language. In short, we defend the right of the Greek language and end the foolish and ancient politics that the People's Party instituted with the victory of Mr. Núñez Feijóo. We do so through this proposal which only seeks to make law what this Parliament has already approved, which is the general plan for the normalization of the Greek language. So this is not an initiative of the Galego Nationalist Block, it is an initiative of all the people who worked on drafting this law, of all the people who at that time unanimously supported this general plan in this Parliament. And we're also responding to a demand that has been made to us since various collectives; collectives that have come from Queremo Galego!, from the Bureau, ProLanguage, Coordinator of Workers for Linguistic Standardization, the Council of Culture or the Royal Galaga Academy, who have been asking for the General Plan of Standardization of the Greek language year after year. And they do, ladies and gentlemen, because the Greek is going through the worst moment in his history. We are the only language in the entire state that loses speakers. We believe that action must be taken in this situation. And what better way to do it than by welcoming us to what we've already agreed on and which is still alive today? We believe that the General Plan is the basis from which progress can be made, but also, ladies and gentlemen, we believe that defending the General Plan for Standardization of the Greek language is the defence of democracy and the dignity of this Parliament. Because failing to comply with the agreements of the Welsh House is to mock democracy, it is to mock not only the Members and Members who represented the people at that time, but rather to let the Greek Parliament become a useless appendix which has no value whatsoever for democracy. For more than ten years, this plan has been unanimously approved. For more than six years now, the People's Party of Mr. Núñez Feijóo has decided to bury him under the ground, to bury the General Plan of Linguistic Standardization. Democrat, ladies and gentlemen of the PP, demonstrates Mr. Núñez Feijóo, who is only specialist in dynamizing agreements and saying one thing and doing the opposite. They always come here, they've spoken of great consensus, but then they're the first to break the minimum agreements that have been reached not only in this Parliament, but also with many social representatives, with many people who have done an important job in defending the Greek language. You've preferred to join a Spanish ultra-right campaign and literally crush the English language. You prefer to align yourself with those who attack the language of the people rather than defend the laws and the dignity of this country. And the results of that policy are visible. The Greek crosses the worst moment of his history. And I wanted to stop at this moment on something that also seems important to me, today that we have a little more time to talk about this matter. Never said the Galician Nationalist Block that it is the fault of all the problems that the language is left in the Feijóo Government. There's a story of repression, humiliation, of gossipers, there's a whole idiosyncrasy against the Greek language, which, in fact, still has a weight today. And this is not a unique and exclusively part of what was done during franchise. I, who am 37 years old, who was therefore born when the dictator died, have to say that I also lived in the first person to have to listen to my classmates and companions of my class phrases like, "I speak well, speak to me in Spanish," in a village in this country like Sarria. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, to say that there is no repression against the language or that there is a climate of cordiality is to deny its own reality. And in the face of this situation, in the face of the loss of spokespersons, after having rules that, in theory, leapt over the normalization of language, we ask ourselves, gentlemen, if the Government has no interest in knowing what the causes are, if you don't wonder what's going on, what's going on for this to be so. We already know that the PP will say here today that it's BNG's fault, that we're the culprits that the Greek is in this situation. All right, we're also guilty of tomorrow, ladies and gentlemen, or that it's not sunny today. It's okay. In any case, if we go to what sociolinguists say, what do they tell people who are studying what is the situation in our language, what are they talking about? From a situation of digestion where there is a language A, which is Spanish, which is literally swallowing another language B, which in this case is Greek; that there is a problem because stereotypes and prejudices are kept; that there is a moral legislation, which has simply practiced a policy of tolerance with the existence of the Greek language, but where there is no real impulse in the normalization of language, where there is an absence of Greek in many planes of our social and institutional life. And that's not a family responsibility, it's a direct responsibility for governments. Or is it a family problem that we can't use Greek in justice? No, no, no, no. Or do all our Sergas files say that we all speak in Spanish is a family problem? What do they tell you that in order to be able to file a record in a notary, of any kind, if you do it in Greek it takes longer is a family problem or is it a problem of alarming and serious discrimination that continues to be experienced in our language? And there are also many barriers. I'm going to give you some examples, some that are just the tip of the iceberg of discrimination, often hidden, that exists for our language. They are news that went out in the press in the last three years: "A Vigo judge threatens not to admit an application in Greek if he does not present with a sworn translation to the Spanish," "A Vigo citizen accumulates 237 days late for a Sergas operation in order to be able to sign the informed consent in galego", "A Sergas doctor expelled relatives from a dying man who did not speak in English in his own house", "The justice illegalizes signs of traffic written in galego", "If you do the trial in gallego, we deny you a pre-doctoral exchange to a student for delivering the certificate of scholarships to the tourism department of the Town Council of Rendondela", "Presions of the Crown Deputation so that an official does not use the Galician at work", "The Spanish Government denies a pre-doctoral scholarship to a student for delivering the certificate of studies in galeo", "Genesis Seguro offers the possibility that the client will not have his citizenship, but will have his policies, which will allow him to rent, in English. This is just a very small, very small, very small sample of what comes out in the light of the situation that on many occasions many men and women have to live in this country to use their own language. It's also, ladies and gentlemen, a demonstration of this falsity that over the past few years the People's Party has sold us out of the speech of the ultra-right, the Madrid cave. You gentlemen, when they talk about the imposition of the Greek, what they're trying to do is turn the victim into a executioner. That's what you're doing with that speech, which, as we say, is a silly speech and a speech that attacks the base, the most important creation this country has, which is the Greek, that you want to keep it, because in a small place where you can look and see, but they don't want it to be a full language that can be used normally in our country. Look, if you really wanted to talk about taxes, we could go to state legislation. We have a Constitution that imposes the obligation to know Spanish, 13 laws, 73 royal decrees and 23 ministerial orders impose the compulsory use of Spanish. By the way, rules all of them dictate without consensus, without any kind of agreement, that maintain an asymmetry, that clearly maintain that there is a preponderance of a language in front of others who gracefully let us use, it would only be missing! In any case, ladies and gentlemen, when we're seeing a brutal retreat from the language, accelerated in recent decades in an alarming way, what has Mr. Núñez Feijóo's government done? Applying a policy in favour of Greek? No, a genuine dismantling of all normalization policies, from legal to economic to media. And we here want to once again show our solidarity, for example, with Celga workers, unjustly fired by the Galician Union, dismantling the Greek language learning service for adults. Or we want to be in solidarity with the actors in the doubling, with those people who represent the culture of this country and who are suffering from an actual ERE. We have today a budget from the Galician Union that does not reach the EUR 6 million, half a tenth of the board's budget. Do you know how much the Cervantes Institute only receives to promote the Spanish? 116 million euros, only the Cervantes Institute. And you six million for the Greek language look very much like it. And they sold us, gentlemen, to attack the language, a false multilingualism. They tried to create a false debate in teaching, which is a key piece of language recovery right now, saying the problem was that we have to learn more English and confront Greek with learning foreign languages. But, in fact, we also denounce that this is a great scam. What does this decree of multilingualism mean? Only 44% of multilingual centers are public, while 56% are private. 39.5% of private centres are incorporated into the multilingual network, while in public education only 8.2% are included. This means that the vast majority of students in this country who go to public centers, who are not in private centers, are not receiving any kind of support from foreign language teaching. But what is multilingualism in the public? A lesson in the English language, which is usually plastic. This is neither foreign language learning nor anything. This is the covert to paste through the back door a policy that the only thing that seeks is that the Greek language is left in teaching, as it is at present. And they don't care that right now 1 out of every 4 kids says they can't speak in English. You say that it is to comply with legality and that this is cordiality and bilingualism. That is to violate the Law of linguistic normalization and promote ignorance of the language of this country itself, which is what you are doing. We, ladies and gentlemen, therefore, are in favour of acting and scrupulously collecting the measures of the General Linguistic Standardization Plan. And we think it's important to take this step because it will allow better protection of the rights of the Greek language and an obligation that really public authorities can't ridicule the right of the Greek language to be a language just like the rest of the world's languages. And for that, it needs normalization policies. That's why we introduced, as we say, measures that not only reflect the principles of ensuring the possibility of living in English, but also to achieve for the Greek language more functions and more spaces, to introduce a positive offer of Greek in society, to promote a friendly, modern and useful view of the Greek language, and to provide the language of resources and means for its normalization. We do so through this law, which does not give me time to explain in detail right now, but that it takes measures for the field of administration, for society, measures to normalize Greek in teaching, measures to support Greek in culture, in the economy, in health, in social services. In short, we have collected everything that other people have worked out for so long and that this government – and finished, Mr President, is breaking up when they are absolutely necessary. We are today claiming the same treatment for the Greek language as for the rest of the world's languages. At BNG we don't want the English language to be a second language, we don't want the Welsh people, like Rosa Parks, to go in the back seat of the bus and have to feel that humiliation. No, ladies and gentlemen, no people, no people, no languages of the first or second. You decide which side you're on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u31	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u32	Thank you, President. Today, May 5, 2015, we are in a position to state that the goals that the post-editation generation and the General Plan of Linguistic Standardization were marked to achieve a normal use of Galicia's own language were not met, and that since the entry into force of the Plurilingualism Decree, the situation has worsened to the extremes which show the grave situation. The only language that's in danger in Galicia is that I'm speaking, that's the Greek, that was born in Galicia in the ninth century and was the most valued lyrical language in the thirteenth century. There are no guarantees in our country for the normal use of Greek in such important sectors as education, justice, public services or the media, in fact international treaties on linguistic rights. I call on the democratic conscience, among all of us, to take decisive steps to ensure that Galicia's own language is official for all purposes in its territorial sphere, so that the people of Galicia have the same legal status as the speakers of any other language in their country. Still supporting deep-rooted philosophy bases this proposed law of the Plan of Standardization of the Greek language, we want to make the following point. Any action in this sense on the part of this House must start from an analysis without prejudice or self-comprehensiveness of the path traveled until now. The language is heritage of all and of all, of the Greeks and of the Greeks, to enter a partisan confrontation is the worst we could lend it. There's one undeniable fact: once we get a certain capacity for self-government with the entry into force of the Statute, we can't guarantee normalization of our language. And, more seriously, we're unable to cut the speech hemorrhage. The oral transmission of the tongue is disappearing. We have an asymmetric legal framework and we need to recognize it. We refer to the asymmetry of the legislation which enshrined the Law of Linguistic Standardization once revised by the Constitutional Court. Without recognizing a territorial domain that is his own, the language remains unequal because the other language he has to compete with in his own space if he has legally recognized that territory. At any point in the territory of the Spanish State no citizen or citizen can claim the unknown of the Spanish, he has a duty to know it. The Greek has not yet been granted such a guarantee of survival, dwells in the thought and word of all those who keep him from his to defend his identity. Now, even if they are on their land, at the territorial level of their language, they have not guaranteed that they can use it freely because their interlocutor can always bring in ignorance, since, contrary to Spanish, the law does not prescribe that the Greeks should know our language. Being aware that we move on complex legal grounds, that's a premise that must never disappear from our analysis, there's no real co-feficiality with regard to the law when using one language or another. To me personally if it has happened to me that Greek entrepreneurs ask for a translator in the courts to listen to the statements on the other side; however, no Galician has the right to ask for a translator from Spanish to Greek, which shows a great difference in the rights of one language to another. And that's where the Administration has to play a decisive role to compensate for that imbalance and guarantee a right that lacks its relationship as duty. Public administrations are at least obliged to ensure equal opportunities for the use of the official languages of the community. Since the Language Standardization Act was approved, it must be acknowledged that the language has reached new areas of use, but the number of speakers has not ceased to descend. Moreover, the presence of the language in certain media and sectors is practically null and void or in free retreat. In other words, before addressing the implementation of a new plan, it is necessary to analyze the actual situation of the language and evaluate the objectives achieved by the current plan. But how do you analyze it if whoever had to put it into practice did it in a partial way or in many cases did not do it or varied at your convenience what he wanted? We must conclude that language normalization plans have failed in what is supposed to be their basic goal: to ensure language use and to improve their social functionality by eradicating the old prejudices that spoil their social assessment. Not only were the old prejudices eradicated, but others were established from the opportunistic linguistic behaviors totally disloyal and interested, and they turned the use of the language into an electoral tool and a partisan. In the presentation of a new plan we consider it essential and decisive to ensure its effectiveness a new philosophy in the genesis of it, because it requires a broad social consensus. We need to count on the real involvement of all sectors and social actors, we need to give a voice to society and make it part of the decisions that come from such an alarming situation. Citizenship must see this new legislation as a great national agreement in which we all have to involve and not as something that has been given from power. It is therefore necessary to establish effective and effective participation mechanisms that enable this covenant and ensure the arrivals of all sectors, from the technically most prepared, such as universities, research teams, teachers, such as those who represent a field of action determining the immediate or future implications of their linguistic attitudes, such as ANPA, youth associations, media, technological sectors, trade unions or employers. The implementation of the plan requires a periodic follow-up, at least bi-annually, to allow detecting deviations that may occur during its execution. All measures in this plan must be evaluable in the period of validity which must be established, either at the general level for the whole plan or at the specific level by sector. It is necessary to involve society in that assessment, in the same way that we demand its participation in its genesis. It will be a way of promoting, within society, critical and reflective attitudes about the degree of achievement of the goals marked in our language, establishing the weak points and promoting actions aimed at strengthening them. A normalization plan is nothing more than a measure in itself, which requires continuity in future plans, is one more step on the ladder. In that sequence of plans, it is necessary to define the overall objective of each plan. What is the purpose of this plan? Stop the fall of talkers? Ensuring equal opportunities for users of both languages? We have to define it clearly. Having achieved these goals, it must not be contemplated as a final goal. The society will be able to draw the following plan with a new general goal for a new period of vigilance. We must move forward, step by step, but without pause, towards full linguistic normalization. It's about our own being, the most valuable and genuine of our identity, that's about Galicia. Galician-free Galician is not Galician, Galician is Galician because there are Welshmen who keep their traditions, their language and their history alive. In order for this not to remain in a statement of intent, it is necessary to establish an economic memory with the budgets necessary to carry it out, and to complete those actions that are more urgent and equip them with sufficient economic resources to ensure their effectiveness. Abandoning resources in this will give us the measure of our indolence. It's important, therefore, the most important of a plan of linguistic normalization, the most important of any legislation on our language, the consensus. It's not worth putting on paper – and it's been proven all these years – a lot of intentions if after that they don't have regulations that accompany them or obligations that accompany them or budgets that accompany them. Everything remains in mere propaganda. I believe, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, that it is time to change the language policy of the People's Party, that it is time to accept that it does not play on equal terms with the Spanish language. There's a duty to meet him, not the other one. Our language, the Greeks and the Greeks should have the duty and honor to know and use it in our country. To finish, I'm going to support this bill, it couldn't be any other way. And I hope you approve it by all the groups so you can then work on it. And I want to say good-bye to Manuel Antonio's words: "We'll fill up the candles/ c'light in the morning./ We'll invent frustrated discoveries/ the barovent of the horizons/ to accelerate the abolished hearts/ of our cheated sailboats." Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, don't let the Greeks and the Greeks down again, bet on our language. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u33	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. For the Parliamentary Group of Alternative Left Gallega, Mr. Ron.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u34	Good morning to all and to all. Well, we're here again to talk and discuss the situation of the Greek language. We understand logically the initiative brought by the Galego Nationalist Block, which seeks to be at the bottom a call for attention on immobilism and the paralysis of the Greek executive not only to the situation of the Greek language in general but above all to the development of the General Plan for Linguistic Standardization adopted unanimously in 2004. The German executive always guarded that there was no reason for the alarm. In how much initiative he made the opposition, it was always the same: everything, everything was fine. The data used them to illustrate exactly the opposite of what they said. So you insisted on pointing out a true future when the data actually show us is that there's a pretty uncertain future for the Greek language. But you, logically saying that, there was no reason for the alarm, and as good propaganda managers, they first presented to the press and then to the groups the basic structural document of the Plan for the dynamization of the Greek language in the economic fabric 2015-2020. Well, without it being very clear, once we could read it, as if it would produce that participatory process. It is not stated here how it will be budgeted, how this will advance, and what degree of regulatory guarantee will offer the said plan that emerges from another plan. On May 17, 2013, we had the opportunity to demonstrate, with the gallo of the manifestation of the day of the Greek letters, that it was necessary to reform the Law 3/1983, of linguistic normalization, because thirty years were many, and that this reform had an essential piar in the General Plan of Linguistic Standardization, a piar, a step, we repeated. And as we have already formulated in various initiatives, we believe that it is necessary to know and reassess the causes of the bad quantitative and qualitative evidence that weighs on the use of the Galician language in society. We have, for example, done so by calling for the establishment of a parliamentary committee. A piar, a step – we repeat – because in the 2004 plan itself there are aspects that for the Alternative Left Galeg are very improved, and there are others that clearly go against the model of society that wants AGE for Galicia of the 21st century. And we'll see about that later. We insist, therefore, that the plan, we understand, can't directly spill the bill, can't be poured in a mimetic way. We must introduce and take into account aspects that have already been introduced in the normative baggage since 2004, such as the Valentín Paz Andrade law itself, for example, that would be in perfect relation to Title VIII or Article 45, or the inexcusable reference – which must be made – to which it is necessary logically to refer in a explanatory statement, to the recessive context that introduced the Decree of Plurilingualism in teaching in Galicia. We understand that its derogation and the development of a new decree must be an obligation to be able to get out of the nebula where the Greek is now immersed. We will focus on two or three facts that brought us to the attention of the initiative, but which are in the plan itself. A law that confronts the need to normalize the Greek language must bear in mind which language model wants to defend and develop, and for that we need to analyze the results of the current model, defined as harmonic bilingualism. AGE already knows this is a failed model, because bilingualism in the background cannot be defined as harmonic only based on a percentage, in a quantitative character. Because harmonic bilingualism exactly receives that name for its use in society. And we, if we consider the statistical results known, we take care from the AGE that in society we are faced with a triumph of the ideologicalization of diglossia, we have said it by active and passive since the beginning of this legislation, where the dominant language is imposed in spaces and in social relevance to the dominant language. Therefore, in the Greek society there is no balanced harmonic bilingualism or social bilingualism, there is no such thing as sitting down and evaluating the linguistic model and wondering whether a solution would not go through contexts of linguistic immersion, especially in the Spanish-speaking areas, as it appears, for example, as a recommendation in the report of the Committee of Experts analysing the follow-up to the European Charter of Minorized Languages. The scientific results of the Catalan school language model are clear, if we heed a scientifically sound vision and not partisan attacks. If we look at the pedagogical criteria and academic results, even using the methods of analysis quantitatively loved by the PP as they are by Pisa, empirical evidence is clear, and I quote textually the result of a study: "The students of the Catalan educational system have no deficit in their school knowledge by following programs in which Catalan is the main language vehicle in contexts of immersion." We share the concern and central philosophy of this initiative; therefore, the need to set up a general and global planning that addresses all socio-linguistic plurality, designs strategies, achieves more social functions and normalizes their presence and use; ultimately, they can live in Welsh. However, the language we use is not innocent, and less when we talk about linguistic normalization. Language must be inclusive, and it is not. We understand the children's stage as an educational whole, from 0 to 6 years, and we wouldn't divide or differentiate educational strategies into two fringes. The notion of competition is but a demonstration of the conceptual linguistic colonization of the capitalist system of neoliberal education managers. We're talking about pedagogical concepts, knowledge, use, even capacity, because competition doesn't guarantee use. We are talking about guaranteeing rights and professionalization, not establishing competitiveness, as seems to be reflected in Article 12. We're talking about creating an ethical consciousness about the Greek language, not the creation of a stereotyped speech and topic, as seems to emanate from article 23. Finally, we are talking about Title VII, Articles 56 and 57, which speak of something that is not compatible with the Alternative Left Glaga, because most of the principles listed in Articles 56 and 57 cannot be legally binding on the Greek Public Administration, in order to finance the Church in order to comply with an obligation. We don't want mass on public television, and we don't have to be in English or Latin, because the end is the same. We don't want religion within school hours, as shown in those articles. That's why we said that the plan is a piar, a champ, and that it can't be moved in a mimetic way to the rank of law, because, if this is with the range of law, logically, Alternative Left Galicia would be against this law. But we believe in the democratic possibility of dialogue, debate, dialectic confrontation, of reaching a synthesis, through precisely that reflection, and we are convinced that after that reflection and participation we would come to the conclusion that, indeed, the Council of Galicia cannot finance the Catholic Church to meet its obligations, that we cannot force them to have mass on public television, as much as they are in Greek, and that, of course, religion must be out of school. We would probably come to those same conclusions because the discourse and the educational dialogue was on that line, at least in this thesis, over the next three years. We understand that, in addition, there is a fact that leads us, for example, to what happened to the entrepreneurs: that, while they received public money, they did use and glorify linguistic normalization, but that when the public money ceased, as the pursuit of linguistic normalization ceased. So we understand that the plan is a fundamental step, that we have to move forward and that we have to re-evaluate and re-evaluate what the situation is 11 years after its unanimous approval, and that we therefore have to have the possibility to confront ourselves and speak, to establish dialectics in this House. So we are going to support it, although we have already stated that we have quite a lot to do with it, but we want to dialogue and we want to debate. We hope that the People's Party will also want to do this, and so we can contribute to the support of the Greek language with the work of all of us. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u35	Thank you, Mr. Ron. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Burgo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u36	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good morning, gentlemen. Counsellor, the Statute of Galicia in its Article 5 says exactly: "The language of Galicia's own is Greek. The English and Spanish languages are officials of Galicia, and everyone has the right to know and use them. The Galician public authorities will ensure the normal and official use of both languages and will enhance the use of Welsh in all public, cultural and informational life and will have the means to facilitate their knowledge. No one can be discriminated against because of the language." It seems incredible that right now it is necessary to remind the Council of Galicia of its duty and obligations around the language, our greatest sign of identity as a people and as a culture. But we have to do it, because since 2009 we have been witnessing an exceptional situation; exceptional since the proclamation of our autonomy. A situation in which the main institution that has to defend language and culture, as it is the Galician Union, turns out that it is engaged in an attitude of attack on its own language, and that it converts the language, which is a basic part of our autonomy and which in some way legitimately the Government of Galicia in an element of social and political confrontation – and I speak clearly of social and political confrontation –... a social and political confrontation based on language that the People's Party has artificially sought before reaching the Government of Galicia; already earlier, because it was the People's Party that broke the consensus that we had in 2007 with the Decree of Language and that we had earlier with the Government of Mr. Fraga. I, to prepare this intervention, have been reading all the previous debates of the year 2014 and 2015 around the language, and the truth is, continuously, repeatedly, I saw that the two advisers and also the spokesperson of the People's Party said clearly and accused the socialists of breaking the consensus of the language. I don't like to do politics – I really tell them – with "and you more", or "this is a lie," "this is true." I don't like it, but if I'm tired of listening – as a historian, above all – continuously the manipulation of facts, the manipulation of the past. And the past is, for example, that on February 23, 2007 they gave a press conference at that time as education adviser, Ms. Laura Piñón, with the representatives of the three parliamentary groups, where they said the following, on a news from El País – we can look for another media, in this case El País – and in Spanish: "Laura Sánchez Piñón, the Education Counsellor, appeared with the representatives of the three political forces to present the 'The Decree of All'. He did it out of his mind, after the intense negotiations, and, according to his words, excited. He had just reached a difficult political consensus in times of ruptures and cliques. ‘Galice is setting an example that the language must never face political groups’, the socialist leader summed up. Together with her, the Education Spokesperson of the People's Party Parliamentary Group, Manuela López Besteiro, appealed to the Galicianism of his party to defend its support for a decree that ‘ensures the balance between the two co-official languages and respect for the mother tongue, whether the Galician or Spanish’. That's what the People's Party's Education Voicer said in 2007. Who broke the consensus embodied in the Standardization Act and the General Plan? The People's Party; the People's Party, Mr. Baamonde. Here's your voice at that time saying that it seems exceptionally good to you the decree, which, by the way, was negotiated with all political forces, something that was not done in the formulation of its new linguistic policy, which was the decree called "Plurilingualism." They know it perfectly, and I say it in honor of the truth and I say it in honor of a situation that... I am indeed tired of being accused continually of the former Government chaired by Mr. Tourinho – Mr. Baamonde, who does gestures – of absolutely uncertain things, of inventions that are his. This rupture and this confrontation was logically accelerated when the People's Party took power and could bring forward its new linguistic policy, which broke with everything the political parties had done in this Parliament in previous years: it broke with the Law of Standardization and broke with the General Plan of Linguistic Standardization. It brings a decree of plurilingualism which was rejected by all, by everyone, against the previous, adopted by all, including the People's Party. He was rejected by the Royal Galaga Academy, the Galician Council of Culture, the Galician School Council, the Education Sectoral Bureau, the political parties, the trade unions, the Consultative Council and the universities. But who supported this? The People's Party only. Is that consensus? Is this to seek consensus? But in addition, what we know is that a fundamental part of this decree was not legal and was therefore annulled. They have protected the use of Greek in childhood education and do not guarantee the learning of both languages, and they know it perfectly well. And the results we're seeing five years later. There is a clear retreat of the Greek in public school, and we do not say so, to international bodies such as the Council of Europe, which warns you about the lack of institutional and public support to the minority language, which is the Greek language. Counsellor, something should tell you this, this call for attention from the Council of Europe, which is not exactly managed by the Socialist Party. We, of course, continue to demand the repeal of this decree and seek a standard of consensus, of true consensus. But the politics of the People's Party goes beyond this decree, it does so in a subtle way, in a really quite perverse way of disparaging the language. He does it in multiple ways; of course, it's clear with the denial of using the Welsh language in mathematics or science, as the decree does. Why can't it be the language of the vehicle? This is to consider it – and the counselor knows perfectly well – a second language, a despicable language; which is more important to Spanish and, of course, more important to English, the language of the future, than to the Greek, that you yourself are insinuating that it is useless for nothing. It has to be here but it really doesn't serve as a vehicle language. But what bothers me very much – and it's an absolutely perverse attitude – is that you always talk about joining the Greek word "tax" and Spanish to the word "freedom." It is a union, Counsellor – read the previous speeches and you will see that in this Parliament always takes place – the Greek is tax and the Spanish is freedom. The two Education Advisers and the Voice Member make it clear always in this Parliament that you are here to guarantee the freedom of those who speak Spanish. And who guarantees freedom from those who speak Greek? You don't, never say, always say they're to maintain freedom from those who speak Spanish, as if those who speak Spanish were somehow repressed or employed in this country. It's just a scandal, Counselor. You know as well as I do that language is never innocent, never, and joining in English and tax and Spanish and freedom is a furious attack on our language. Just as you keep in the public discourse, the existence of two languages in Galicia – two official languages – is a problem, which is a source of complications. You keep it going all the time. It's just as much as saying that if the Greek wasn't then we'd be much better here, and you know that it's not at all true, that having two languages is from any point of view – linguistic, educational, social and even economic – a source of wealth, opportunities and an element that should be of social cohesion, but that you become a reason for confrontation. I don't have time to talk about their negative policies, like the fall of budgets, and many more elements; I don't have time to talk about it. That's why I end by saying that we will, of course, support the proposed law of the Nationalist Block of Galicia. We understand it – as vociers previously said – as a call for attention, as a search for consensus, as a way of telling the People's Party that we must work for a consensus, that we are open to that consensus, but whenever that consensus begins with the Law of linguistic normalization and starts with the application of a general plan of...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u37	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u38	...normalization. We'll be there. If we continue to have a furious attack on our language, we can't be there. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u39	Thank you, Mrs. Burgo. People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Baamonde.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u40	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good morning, gentlemen. Let me begin by saying that the bill that brings today's debate to the Nationalist Block Galego seems to us a completely useless proposal, a proposal that breaks with all consensus on language, disturbing and has no other object but to convert the language into the centre of political debate. Mrs. Pontón started by referring to Rosa Parks. Mrs. Pontón, go ahead and precisely the objective of our linguistic policy is freedom of use and not discrimination on the basis of language. But I wouldn't recommend using that example, equate language politics with racism. The key to racism is always hatred. I hope you don't want to tell me that the language policy of the Galician Nationalist Block is based on hate, I suppose it won't be that. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] But in any case, that probably explains why more and more people are deserting this nationalism that embodies the Galician Nationalist Block. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Murmurs.]] And, look, you're talking about the cave. Here the only thing that looks like the cave is the cave policy of the Galician Nationalist Block; at least in the sense of the Platon cave myth, of living from behind to reality and chasing the shadows of the linguistic imposition that you practice. Look, it's been said here that the Greek was in trouble. Clearly, Greek has problems, but – and I do not say it – it is not in danger of disappearance – among the editors of the General Language Standardization Plan. Of course he has problems, but he has the same problems that all minority languages suffer; that is, the rupture of generational transmission and living in a context of globalization that makes languages used as a communication element and not an identity element. Here – I think it was the AGE spokesman – of the Catalan example; the example, indeed, that represents compulsory immersion and normative taxation. Yeah, look, we have data from the Galego Institute of Statistics. You just published a Catalan daily data on the Catalan situation in Catalonia, and see what happens. It understands the country's own language: in Galicia, 95.8%; in Catalonia, 94.3%; knows to speak the country's own language: in Galicia, 97%; in Catalonia, 80%; knows to read the country's own language: in Galicia, 97%; in Catalonia, 82%; knows to write the country's own language: in Galicia, 83%; in Catalonia, 60%; those who usually use Catalan as their normal language: in Galicia, the Greek, 50.9%; the Catalan, 36.3%. Who said that immersion is better than language balance, Mr. Ron? [[Applause]] In order to solve this problem, Mrs. Pontón raises the old issue of statutory taxation. By the way, the Greek has never come out of its historical problems through normative imposition. Neither the Rejudice nor the Brotherhood of Speech nor Transition have opted for imposition but for language policy always based on consensus. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] They bring a proposition that exactly what it does is to break all consensus in linguistics because they start by breaking the most fundamental of all, which is the normative consensus. The Law of Linguistic Standardization, adopted by consensus in this Parliament, constituted the framework for the implementation of the Law of Linguistic Policy. Obviously, the law had a question, which was not accompanied by the set of rules necessary for its development, and that's why this House approved the Linguistic Standardization Plan, which came to fulfill that function. The legislators at that time did not give the Standardization Plan a nature of law because they did not consider it timely, as said the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia. And they didn't think it appropriate because they thought it should not be a law but a framework document, a strategic guide for progressing in the social penetration of Greek, believe that languages speak them to people and that their future will be what people want it to be. With this proposal you are laminating the Law of Linguistic Standardization, which is subsumed in this norm. Of course, the Standardization Law never liked them – they tried to change several times – and they don't like it because the Standardization Law is part of the principle of coexistence of languages and the co-operationality of Welsh and Spanish, and that doesn't sound too good to you. But it also breaks the agreement, the consensus, on the consideration of the plan not as a law but as a framework document, a strategic document for the social penetration of Welsh, and also breaks the standardization plan criterion from the coexistence of languages. It was said by the editors themselves in the memory of the presentation: that the Spanish must not disappear; what is to make the Greek present; that the Spanish is an essential element of communication. But, of course, those things sound bad to you. The document they bring us is an absolutely useless material and substantive document. Actually, it's not a law, it's a regulatory rule. All you do is transform the rules of law and make them standard. By the way, the only noun that adds to it is that what is considered in the Standardization Plan is strategies and application criteria if you turn it into a noun precept. That's why it's a useless rule, so Mr. Ron, Mrs. Pontón, clearly explained to you what the shortcomings of this bill were. That's why none of the political groups that intervened here before me clearly supported the bill itself in its substantive consideration. They all exposed him to remarkable evidence, they all made a statement that it's not a good law and that he doesn't have the possibility of becoming a law, although logically they support it from the point of view that it can serve as a basis for a consensus. Especially Mrs. Burgo. Mrs. Burgo, you, when they ruled, raised responsibility for linguistic policy and never wanted to transform this plan into law. Mr. Touriño – what you lied to here – has clearly started from the plan's consideration as a framework document. Mr. Touriño left the plan as a framework of coexistence between the Greek and the Spanish. Now, Mr. Ron, it's useless, but it does have a model, which you said you didn't respond to any model. This clear plan responds to a clear model of the three criteria of linguistic normalization that can be done – that of social monolingualism, that of bilingualism and that of living each in his own language. If we banish the third – which, logically, would lead to a country faced by reason of language to the mode of flamenco and balloons – and if we discard the second, which is what we defend ourselves, of course, by what the Galician Nationalist Block is opting for is by the first model, the model of unique co-ficiality and exclusive presence of Welsh in public life. Of course they are on their perfect right to do so, but for that they need, logically, the support of most of Galician society. Mrs. Burgo, you said that the Galician Plurilingualism Decree was born without a consensus of anyone and no one's support. Listen, you have the support of the majority of Galician society, who has supported it and has consistently supported it. What more support does he need? The support of the majority of society! They are in their perfect right to do so, but they cannot ask us to ratify the linguistic policy of nationalism because, of course, if we do that, we would cause a real fire on the tongue. In fact, this plan that they present is nothing but the Law of linguistic normalization of nationalism; it's nothing but the consecration of the compulsory immersion project in the Greek that you defend; it's nothing more than a consecration of the criterion of language as the way to sovereignty. And look at something, why do they do it? Home!, I think they do it for an elementary and simple reason: harassed as they are by emerging forces in their environment, reduced to the consideration of a place at home, yielding in their social preaching, they need to recover the only remaining flags, that of language and sovereignty; flags to motivate their language and very especially to assert themselves against others in the idea that you, the BNG, are the only defenders of nationalism in Galicia. They do what they want, but we are fully convinced that the problem of language is not solved either by confrontation or by imposition. And, Mrs. Burgo, allow me to take a look. I understand that the other groups, without being very in line with Mrs. Pontón's bill, support her because they move in the same spectrum, but I don't just understand her posture. We always told you that they don't have a position on the language, and you just ratified it here right now. You didn't speak a single word from Mrs. Pontón's bill...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u41	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u42	...he spoke of excuses and Byzantine arguments that did not come to the story. Look, if you're trying to join up, form a clamp against the People's Party, placing one of the extremes with nationalist radicalism, leaving at the other end the other radicals that defend the Spanish and give us the center, the politics of...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u43	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u44	...defence of the peaceful and equal coexistence of languages, there you are. That it doesn't end up happening to them – as I once told Mr. Cervinho – what happened to the Romans in the battle of Cannas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u45	Thank you very much, Mr. Baamonde.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u46	Well, allow me...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u47	Thank you very much. It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u48	Well, just to say that, logically, we're not going to vote in favour of this plan that I propose.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u49	Thank you. Parliamentary group which is the author of the bill. You have the floor to Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u50	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to thank the groups that today are going to say and vote, who have a word, who have discretion and who have respect for the agreements which are adopted in this Parliament. Because already, as I said in my first speech, today we have not voted for any bill from the BNG, we have voted for a bill that has unanimously approved this Parliament for more than ten years, and that has its origin in a project which was born of a government presided over by Mr Fraga and in which hundreds of people have worked, and there has been a social and institutional debate in this House. Because that's the general plan for the normalization of the Greek language, and that's what we're voting back here today in another way, which is the form of law. It says the PP that this is not a law, however, it has been qualified by the Bureau of Parliament as a bill; therefore, of course, it has, from a technical point of view, all attributes. He also told us here that it is useless, that it is an imposition, that it is a nationalist position..., all a genuine disatin in relation to the arguments, that they are also contradictory in themselves, but that he knows the People's Party – who votes against the taking into consideration – that in fact his clear approval was an important change in relation to the current situation. For example, the decree of plurilingualism would be illegal because it would violate the principles of this law. But it is against the General Plan of Standardization of the Greek language, which is what we unanimously approve. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, I think you are clearly portrayed. Today the People's Party votes against the plan which this Parliament unanimously approved in 2002, and also with cheap demagogy – against the language always – saying that the measures of this plan are an imposition, when they are all measures that have already voted in this Parliament, and trying to create an absolutely stupid confusion that goes against the normalization of the Greek language. It's, of course, a very sad moment. But look, we were collecting proposals today that launched entities like We Want Galego – that there are more than 300 entities behind this platform! – that mobilized thousands of Greeks in defense of language, the Bureau for Linguistic Standardization, which is actually denouncing apartheid and the positions that are racist against the Greek at the bottom. Because, in their speeches, what they pray for on many occasions is racism against the Greek language; because, if not, how it is understood that they are scandalized by a policy of minimums that the only thing they want is equality, that the Greek language may be where it is currently excluded. Why, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, do you deny the attributes and rights that any language has? Because that's what you're doing with this initiative today. By the way – it is curious – today, the PP spokesperson did not quote the Royal Galaga Academy; it will be because, a short time ago, on January 30, the Royal Galicia Academy asked it to be a responsibility of the Greek Government to assume the General Standardization Plan, and that it had to put in place the measures envisaged in it in a programmed way. This is where all this speech has nothing to do with reality. Surely all of this happens because there have been changes that have not had to do with what the Plan says, but with the political position of the People's Party. And there's a photo that picks up a newspaper El Correo Gallego – I suppose it will serve you as a reference – where we see the former Education Counsellor gathered with Galicia Bilingue, who says it's indecent the Fraga-led Standardization Plan. That's probably what you're defending today, the policy of ultra-right against the Greek language, because that's what you're talking about. The same way we also have to denounce again his lies, his lies about the situation of language, and the steps that they will take. And that the only thing you really do...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u51	It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u52	...is contradicting. See, Parliamentary Journal of Sessions of Galicia, June 6, 2006, motion of the People's Group at the initiative of Mrs. Manuela López Besteiro, Mrs. López Besteiro: "Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. With this motion, from the People's Group, we have come to defend three points: firstly, that at the beginning of the next part-session the General Plan which this Parliament unanimously approved, that the Presidency Council takes on its coordination and that in the Education Committee a group is set up to follow up the measures of the General Linguistic Standardization Plan, which today...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u53	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u54	...the People's Party says it's an artifact of nationalism against language and for taxation." Indeed, ladies and gentlemen, I was expecting you today a little more rigor, I expected you, above all, a little more coherence, and we say again: "Reat in what I am, have no word...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u55	Thank you very much, Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u56	...they don't have this Parliament, and the most serious one: they act against the English language. You're being portrayed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u57	Well, let's move on to the vote on the legislative texts. Commission opinion 6th, Industry, Energy, Trade and Tourism, on the Legislative Decree approving the recast text of the legislative provisions of the Autonomous Community of Galicia in the field of industrial policy The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 40; votes against, 33. The voting is positive. This legislative decree is therefore adopted. Commission Opinion 5th, Health, Social Policy and Employment on the Legislative Decree on the recast text of the legislative provisions of the Autonomous Community of Galicia on equality The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 40; votes against, 33. The voting is positive. This legislative decree is therefore adopted. Voting of the consideration of the Proposal for a Law, of the G.P. of the Galician Nationalist Block, of the General Plan for Standardization of the Greek Language The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 34; votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. Consequently, the consideration of this bill is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u58	We continue with the development of the agenda, with point 2, which is that of appearances. The opinion of Mrs. Environmental, Territorial and Infrastructure Advisor, on his own request, to report on the plans of the Government of Galicia for the sale of business soil of the Union of Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u59	You have the floor for your first intervention by Environment, Territory and Infrastructure Advisor, Ms. Ethel Vázquez Mourelle.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u60	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I turn to this House's own request to take account of the measures it has put in place in the Council of Galicia to encourage the sale of business soil in the parks we have in Galicia. A policy of impulse that is born with a priority objective of getting our land to call and mobilize investments, becoming in the medium term a great attraction pole for companies willing to wager by this country to generate jobs and generate wealth. A set of actions that aims to offer competitive advantages to all those business initiatives that seek investments to install and develop new projects or business plans, and that seeks to respond to the demands of entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs who want to develop their economic activity and create jobs on our land, here in Galicia. That's why our obligation, duty as self-government, is to try to offer them the maximum facilities to boost their projects and thus contribute to the recovery of our economy and also to job creation. Because our duty as government is to contribute to job creation and it's the entrepreneurs who have the key to job creation in their hands. On this road we haven't started from zero, many and very relevant have already been the initiatives put in place in business soil since 2009. Two major examples are the Galician Business Area Sectoral Plan and the Business Solo Request Log. Starting with the Galician Business Area Sector Plan, a rigorous planning that, after an arbitrary management period – I have to say – introduces new objective criteria. This plan evaluates possible placements for business parks and designs development depending on their suitability. A document that responds to the spatial planning objective, because enabling suitable spaces for business development is undoubtedly a territorial planning exercise. And with this sector plan, we've not only located parks properly, but we've made time for urban processing at the right time. But we also have an important tool – as I said – the Register of Business Only Demands, which enables us to develop on a priority basis those parks in which we have opposed the demand for soil. Two initiatives that have proved to be useful in seeking investment efficiency and increasing opportunities for our entrepreneurs. But despite these measures, Junta is the first one to realize that the best macroeconomic results did not move as we wanted the micro-economics of families. And so, for this reason, we saw that one more step needed to be taken, one more step to make Galicia become a focus of business investment and job creation. And so, the different autonomic departments with competences in this area, we are working hard, and coordinatedly, to develop cross-cutting policies to strengthen our industries, productive sectors, to take advantage of Galicia's advantages to become a logistics platform in the European South Atlantic, to bet on innovation and our companies' research, to attract new projects to our community, and to promote internationalization and opening up new markets. To achieve this, the Economic and Industrial Council, in collaboration with the Environment, Territory and Infrastructure Council, and the rest of the relevant bodies, has an ambitious business competitiveness strategy under the motto of Galicia Industry 4.0, which takes concrete measures, which we aim to increase to 20% the weight of industry in gross domestic product and create 50,000 jobs by 2020. A roadmap for our companies to gain competitiveness, and that, in the concrete field of business soil, collects discounts of up to 50% on the sale of parcels owned by the community and makes it possible for companies benefiting from this sale of soil to be able to count on financial support that enables them to materialize their initiatives. As we were talking about, one of the top priorities of the board is to make it available to entrepreneurs, where they demand it, just necessary to install and develop their projects. But it's not only about promoting access to the soil they require, but also about offering it to the most advantageous conditions possible for our industries to be better prepared to compete, to dynamize the economy, and therefore to create the job Galicia needs. Since the Environmental, Territorial and Infrastructure Council, through the Galego Institute of Housing and Soil, we have worked hard to achieve this task. Over the past few months, we have been developing active policies aimed at facilitating access to business soil by implementing measures that have already proved their efficiency, and with results, of course, quantifiable and tangible. In this sense, last January we convened the first plot sale contest, in this case in the industrial parks owned by Xestur – and at the right time, when there is business confidence, which is absolutely necessary to invest. A first call of business soil at a bonus price between 15% and 50% according to its location, being the largest bonus for polygons located in places where economic activity is most needed and also employment, in plans Impulse, Lugo and Ourense, Costa da Morte, Ferrol, and in cross-border areas with Portugal. In this contest, I have to say that seventy-one plots of 20 business parks with an area of more than 192,000 square meters, with a sale of 6.7 million euros, have been assessed. This first phase showed that there was demand for business soil, whenever the terms of sale were and were favourable, but also that the originally projected 15% discount for parks and large cities had to be increased. And for that reason, we decided to open a new call, a new call with special discounts of 30% of the industrial soil located in these large urban areas. And last April 6 ended the deadline for submission of tenders for this contest, which resulted in a fine of 21,000 square meters for sales of more than two million euros. As you know, once the sales tenders are completed, the vacant parcels can be dealt with directly under the same conditions. And this has allowed us in what we've been doing for a year that we've had, in addition to, 33 plots in 7 business parks, with an area of 39,000 square meters and also with an amount of income, of 2 million euros. Finally, the result of the sale of business soil of the 33 industrial parks of Xestur Galicia I think it is highly satisfactory. We have good news, and that's how the data is certified. In less than four months, 111 plots were assessed, 34 in the province of Coruña, 63 in the province of Lugo, 10 in Ourense and 4 in Pontevedra; a total of 252,400 square metres and an amount of sales of more than 10.75 million euros. This means that in the year 2015, 30% more than in the last two years together, 2013 and 2014, and most importantly, that the projects associated with this business soil that we adjudicate will have an investment of about 170 million euros, which must be carried out in three years and which means the creation of 5,600 direct and indirect jobs, sufficiently significant figures that clearly demonstrate the success of the measure. So we're talking about good news because selling industrial soil is supposed to activate business projects and, of course, boosting the economy and also employment. But we don't get satisfied. Our intention is to continue walking on the path of business impulse by making the soil available in appropriate conditions. Because, ladies and gentlemen, of course it's easy to develop new projects to create new opportunities for the Greeks and the Greeks to find a job. And that's why immediately we're going to activate a second phase, a second call, which also provides for 50% reductions in parks managed by the Galego Institute of Housing and Solo. Thus, after the adoption of the decree of business soil by the Council of June 23rd, which was published last April 27th in the Official Journal of Galicia, at the end of this same month we will proceed to the second summons; a call for the business soil contest that will allow to put for sale at fine prices 460,000 square meters in 21 business parks owned by the Galego de Vivenda e Solo Institute; 80,000 square metres of surface in 5 parks of the Coruña, 150,000 square meters in 7 polygons in the province of Lugo – us that highlights the dry port of Monforte – 190,000 square meters in the province of Ourense – us that highlights the expansion of the Polligo de Pazos in Verín, and the rest in three parks owned by the Galego de Vivenda Institute and Solo in the province of Pontevedra. In total, nearly 500,000 square metres of industrial soil belonging to 21 business parks of the Galego de Vivenda e Solo Institute, which will be at a bonus price of between 30% and 50%. And, as we said, all these measures are part of an integral policy, a global strategy, and a coordinated action by the Greek Government to promote business initiative and the attraction of investments to our community. We don't comply with the bonus of industrial parcels. Therefore, in collaboration with the Council of Economic and Industrial Affairs, the Galician Council is launching complementary actions not only to facilitate access, but to facilitate the financing of business projects. I'm talking about the agreement we signed recently between the Galego Institute of Economic Promotion, the Igape, the Galego Institute of Housing and Soil and also Xestur Galicia; an agreement that consolidates access to the business soil of the Galician Union at reduced prices through public contracts owned by IGVS and Xestur, but which also collects additional measures so that companies benefiting from this sale can access the financing and make their projects a reality. And they will also promote access to bank financing for investment projects to be implemented in industrial parks. We are talking about direct loans and guarantees, up to 40% of the cost of business projects and financing aid; the financial cost of bank loans will be reduced. It is ultimately a partnership agreement that stimulates business initiative and attracts investments to Galicia and contributes to setting competitive and quality business fabric in our autonomous community. We know the market and we know it's not just about ruining the ground and facilitating access in different ways. And that's why the Government's industrial soil policy has been strengthened by the Council's approval of the Decree on 23 April, which regulates the legal regime of the IGVS-owned soil; a decree which, as I said, makes it possible to establish bonuses at the price of all the business parks of the Galego Institute of Vivenda and Solo, but which also includes new measures that will ensure that they will favour and encourage economic activity and job creation in Galicia. We are faced with an exclusive rule that regulates business soil, clearly distinguishing it from residential soil and collecting as one of the main novelties flexibility in the form of payment of business soil. Thus, in view of the rigidity that existed in the previous regulation of the year 2007 and that required buyers to pay 100% before writing, this new decree allows to establish payment awards, while at the same time regulating the permutation of soil by building. In addition, this decree expressly raises the possibility of adjudication of plots by law; it is a right of surface with the objective of reducing the cost of soil for business initiatives interested in this kind of adjudication. This procedure, a different formula of commercialising public alone in Galicia, already allows companies to acquire not the ownership of the ground, but the right to use it and build on it the facilities for their project. On the other hand, the new rule establishes the possibility of direct taxation of parcels when it comes to enlargements of existing business parks. In this case, it may be possible to carry out the direct adjudication of adjacent plots with other previous phases, where necessary for the company's business expansion already installed in the park. In addition, it will be possible to direct adjudication in favour of autonomous public foundations or participatory ventures by the Galician Union and when it is also a ground exchange or were reserved by the procedure set out in the Register of Business Alone Applicants. Similarly, they can be directly assisted by parcels of business projects declared unique; those that are strategic for their activity, by the great economic impact and because they create a high number of jobs or because they need a large extent of land for their deployment. And finally, as another of the most outstanding measures, it establishes the possibility of the adjudication of unurbanized soils to companies that, due to the characteristics of their project, need large surfaces. Thus, non-urbanized soil adjudication will allow urbanization to adapt perfectly to the needs of the industry, the factory, thereby facilitating its implementation. Ladies and gentlemen, we are faced with a new model, a new model for the development of more flexible public industrial soil, more tailored to the needs of our entrepreneurs. It changes the concept of selling industrial soil, collects unprecedented measures so far in the Autonomous Community, establishes new mechanisms to offer and promote access to business soil with the aim of continuing to dynamize and serve the growth and development dynamizing factor in the sector of our territory. Finally, to put in place measures, to put in place mechanisms to create jobs, to create investments, to create wealth and also to be more competitive, that our companies are more competitive. Ladies and gentlemen, in this first intervention I have tried to explain clearly the measures that the Government of Greece has taken in the field of business soil to create investments, create jobs, create wealth and become more competitive; an action that responds to a coordinated and planned business soil policy and that part of the conception that industrial soil staffing and development is essential and priority if we want to achieve the economic progress and dynamization of our community. Despite the fact that most of these initiatives have been launched a short time ago – but I insist that at the right time – and that some of them have not yet entered into force, they have already allowed Galicia to see a remarkable increase in the sale of business soil. As I've said, as we've seen since 2015, it's been sold, it's helped by 30% more soil than in the last two years together. And most importantly, projects associated with this soil will involve investments of EUR 170 million, which have to take place in three years, and the creation of 5,600 new jobs in Galicia. We are convinced that the sale of business soil will continue to record an upward trend in the coming months. And so it seems to certify the demand that we have already believed in parks such as the Monforte de Lemos, also in the Palais de Rey and also in Verín. It's a situation that allows us to mark an ambitious goal this year 2015, when we're starting the path of economic recovery. One ambitious goal is that 2015 is now the year of the last decade when the Galician Union is able to sell more industrial surface. We're working for this year 2015 to be the year in which the most business solo has been sold since 2005. Because we are facing a set of measures with which the German Government offers favourable and advantageous conditions for all those companies that want to invest in Galicia, generate activity, wealth and jobs. And for this reason we also plan to apply for measures similar to Atlantic Business Only, in which the Galician Union participates in 15%, and which manages a large part of the business soil in Galicia. We will ask the SEA Public Society to apply in its parks the same discounts at the price of the soil that the Government of Greece is offering successfully in the business parks of its title. And we're sure that this way we'll be able to attract even more investments that dynamic the economy here in Galicia. Together, we're talking about actions that will bring new projects to our community; projects that will surely act as driving centers for employment and economics in Galicia, because the new projects, of course, bring new opportunities for the Greeks and the Greeks. For my part, that's all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u61	Thank you, Counselor. Round of parliamentary groups. Joint Group, Mrs. Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u62	Thank you, President. Good morning, Counselor. You talked about the novelty of this plan. And I would ask you to explain to me the novice, because I didn't get anything new; apart from subsidies and more economic aid to entrepreneurs with no more criteria, I didn't look at anything, of course, that was innovative. It speaks of a satisfactory sales result: in four months, 111 plots, which exceed an investment of 170 million in three years, and the creation of 5,600 direct and indirect jobs. Propaganda holder. There have never been so many jobs in this country as well as in the election campaign. We take – campaign after campaign –... If all the jobs that the People's Party promises in the campaigns were created, we'd have to look for immigration to come and take up jobs because we wouldn't be able to cover them even with the Greeks outside. You guys, for promising in the campaign... it's something really amazing. And that's already the 170 million people coming around, because it's also the old lady's accounts. You pull forward and if they get the number right, it doesn't matter whether it's real or not, what's important is the news in the press. The plan consolidates access to the business soil of the Galician Union at reduced prices –din – with maximum bonuses of 30% or 50% in 55 Greek parks; 50% for the plans Impress Lugo, Ourense, Costa da Morte, Ferrol and border areas, and 30% in the rest of Galicia, regardless of whether they are urban or rural areas. I mean, Galicia is all an open field, it's all the same, and the support it needs is all exactly the same. In addition, it offers the opportunity to finance up to 40% the cost of the project, and Igape will also provide direct loans of 20% of the cost, will evaluate another 20% and there is also a subsidy of the interest rate of one percentage point for the plans Impress Lugo, Ourense, Costa da Morte, Ferrol and border areas and 0.5% for the rest of the sites. And that's where the novelty was to come, or really the Union's bet on this country's industry. So, I ask you, are these tips going to be for all the projects? Should projects be linked to the creation of quality jobs or do they have no commitment to the company that is set up to receive these assistance? Is there any park planning on the side of the board? Do you know how you want to plan them based on what kind of activities they would be recommended in each park in order to be able to attract these companies according to the services that need the types of companies that are installed and according to these industrial development plans – which I understand the Board does not account for the opposition, but that it has them in mind, that it has them on the paper and knows where this country wants to take industrially –? It couldn't be otherwise to make an industrial floor plan without the board knowing or having an industry plan. So will the parks be equipped with the necessary services – from day care facilities, medical centers... – to meet the emergencies or occupational accidents, shared by all companies, as have you been demanding for years by your own businessmen? And we're going to set an example of what Junta understands for a business park and for support to the business park: fifteen years in works, 127 million public money, a 4 million square meters useless waste disposal. This is Plisan's tab, Galicia's largest industrial soil area, which has just received a new injection of 20 million euros by the Board, the Consortium of the Free Zone and Port Authority of Vigo, to try for the last time its unlocking. It's going to be a matter of reducing the macroproject to a simple 700,000-meter polygon to put for sale in 2017. The problem is that, after three chandeliers, there is no demand; that demand of which the Union speaks to us. The logistics sector does not understand how a similar dimension infrastructure does not count on good communication by train, nor does it even envisage a terminal cargo station covered for goods that cannot be watered. Mitsubishi came out scared of a project that was full of urban irregularities and loaded with complaints about the expropriation process. The 20 million that three administrations now try to relaunch the dry port of Vigo expand the bill of this endless work to almost 150 million euros. What was the money invested in? Only the expropriation process exceeded 50 million euros, with the square meter paid at 15 euros. To this amount you have to add the budget for the AG-51 bus, a five-kilometre vial that exceeded 22 million. Land moving works amounted to more than 20 million, and the compensation paid to the owners and the start of the urbanization works completed the bill. Meanwhile, the Plisan eternalizes its functioning post. At 8 kilometres across the border, Portugal is launching the largest business park in the north of the country, Minho Park, with an area of 50,000 square meters located in Monção, at prices similar to those they had a few years ago, from 20 meters the square euro, with a capacity to catch 80 prisoners and generate 1,200 jobs. The intention of the Chamber of Viana and Monção is to capture investment from car industry providers. In the border polygons of Valencia half of the installed companies are already Welsh and the parks closest to Tui are already saturated by Greek companies as well. But this was only the answer to a wrong industrial soil policy. While parks were sold in Valencia at 60 euros a square meter, Galicia was paid 300 euros a square meter. During these years of annulment of the dry port project, the north of Portugal has been equalizing the square meters of the Italian industrial soil, so Galicia has been taking, allowing its companies to be marching from Galicia to settle in Portugal since 1989, and – I repeat – with the applause of both the president of the Union and the industrial adviser to Citroën, when he complained to the auxiliary companies who worked for it to settle in Portugal because it was much cheaper the ground and much cheaper the labour market; i.e., Junta, on the one hand, brings us here a plan to encourage the sale of industrial soil, but on the other hand, he applauds when multinationals ask companies to install in Portugal. From Viana to Melgaço there are already 23 industrial parks, which is 50 kilometers away from the Tui border. Between Valença and Monção will have a logistics platform and another business park that will amount to 1.4 million more meters. Portugal offers land at almost cost, eliminates bureaucratic barriers and labour costs, of course, are not competitive, we cannot compete with them. The average price, in most parks, is between 20 and 35 euros and, if they're private, they're at a lot of 45 square meters. This is about competing, therefore, via services, infrastructures and facilities for logistics, not competing in wages or at lower prices or lack of quality. Companies that generate high value add-on need access to quality services and have logistics needs that guarantee the transport or storage of products, not just a matter of the price of the soil. The Logistics Platform of Valencia will have a train, a train transport, through the Porto-Vigo line; so I don't see that this plan will respond to the needs that companies really have in order to be able to settle in Galicia. I'm going to explain why this plan will fail in a way that they understand: it will fail because it did not evaluate the previous plans, it will fail because it lacks the minimum self-criticism, it will fail because to draft a new plan must be the one that is needed, or it must be demanded, that they correct the errors detected in the previous ones – of course that they first had to be evaluated – and that it should be presented for a parliamentary debate – not for a presentation, but for a parliamentary debate – so that the opposition will arrive and we may be able to give a response to the companies, and then, once they have approved that plan in Parliament, it should come up and economically equip itself with the approved plan. You just come here in a campaign with propaganda, you have no intention that the opposition will bring this plan closer to ideas, initiatives and improvements; you have no intention of fulfilling the plan, the only thing this plan tells us is that you are willing to continue giving money to friendly companies, without any kind of commitment to the creation of stable and quality jobs in our country. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u63	Parliamentary Group of the Galician Nationalist Block, Mr. Pombo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u64	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen. Counsellor, after listening to your appearance on business land selling plans in Galicia, I feel like I don't know if for the third time or whether for the fourth time the solution of all the evils of our country's industrial development. You just told us that we're going to bring companies and we're going to create jobs, but they've already done a lot, because they first designed the Industrial Soil Sector Plan, then the Business Soil Demands Registry and this time the star is again selling industrial soil. But it's the second phase, the second phase of the activation of the famous business land selling program, which includes land price bonuses, between 30% and 50% and the possibility of landing and payment of plots and soil in the most advantageous conditions; the second phase, in a word, of industrial competitiveness agenda, which is going to get the sale of 252,400 square meters, already sold. But he didn't say anything about the matter of speculation about this soil, I don't know if he'll clarify it on the second subject. Together, of course, will activate this second phase in the month of May, in the month of the flowers. With the elections, ladies and gentlemen, the solutions come. The elections provide incentives for business activity: bonus-price, flexible forms of payment, possibilities for direct adjustment, expansions of business parks, possibility of exchanges, also direct allocation for individual business projects that will create a lot of jobs, a lot of wealth, a lot of investments and that will make Galicia the most competitive industry I think of Europe; I believe it is a new model of management, ladies and gentlemen, Galicia at the head of Europe's industrial development. In January I had started the first phase of these 252,000 square meters. The second one seems to be that we're going to reach 462,000 square meters in the 21 IGVS parks. The projects are associated with the sold soil will reach 170 million investments and will take 5,625 more jobs to our country. Propaganda, ladies and gentlemen, of course, has no price. The propaganda of the first phase was not wrong either. The Board had then designed the agenda to modernise the Welsh industry and to create – listen, honourable Members – 50,000 jobs until 2020; the famous Agenda Galicia Industry 4.0, in search of a competitive, differentiated and job-generating industry. In the month of Santos last year this agenda would convert and modernize the Galician industry through innovation; it was intended to strengthen our strategic sectors – agri-food, automotive, naval, forestry and textile –, jobs, counselor, agri-food and forestry, and also to boost emerging sectors such as aeronautics and biotechnology. The secret: accessible industrial soil, the most accessible in the world, falls in the areas Impress Ourense, Ferrolterra, Lugo, Costa da Morte and the Portuguese border, impulse of the smart factory and internationalization of the Galician company. The propaganda of the first phase was not wrong either. At the propaganda of the first and second phases we should add to the announcement by the former advisor, who also had an earlier phase. In September 2013 Mr. Agustín Fernández presented to the Greek entrepreneurs the plan of impulse for the sale of Galician business soil. He said then that it was a priority for the Government of the Union to activate not only the sale of business soil, but also to collaborate in the activity of new business projects that would assume the arrival of activity, employment and wealth. More than a year ago. Where is all this, Counselor? He spoke of more than 2 million square meters in the four provinces of Galicia. More than a year ago, Counsellor Augustine Hernández said that the Government of Greece had unique activations: Industrial Logistics Platform Salvaterra-As Neves, dry port of Monforte... more than a year ago, Counsellor! What is the situation of these unique projects?, what is the activity?, what is the job and what is the wealth employed? Because it's good to announce first, second, third phase of industrial soil. At that time – not if you lose it, ladies and gentlemen – the Government of Greece said that it was not just 2.8 million square metres of park surface, but that there were 3.6 others in approved planning and 5.4 in project implementation; lines of actions abundant, administrative, economic, business, collaborative measures... Of all these phases, the only certainty is that they are advertising measures, advertising measures. Publicity? How much do you want: schedule to modernize the first phase of the Galician industry, 50,000 jobs, and in this second phase, they went down a little, but they speak of 5,600. A year later, what's the reality? Out of propaganda. Last year industrial activity, when in the Spanish state rose by 2.3%, in Galicia by 2.5%. GDP growth, when Spain rises by 1.4%, in Galicia by 0.5%. The fundamental problem of industry is not the price of business soil. Counsellor, what fails is a serious and rigorous industrial policy, despite that decree just announced to us, on 63/2015, on the flexibility of land transfer. We all know that for years before Mr. Feijóo's governments have been running business land parks with high standards of quality in services, projected with lots of plot sizes to suit any type of activity – I say, before Mr. Feijóo –. What did Mr. Feijó do with all this solo? Cut the investment, paralyze the creation of soil, advertise, as we have seen today, and simplify the sale, the valuation of costs. The Industry Council, on the other hand – for a lot of propaganda being established – cuts its investment. The Industry Council last year only executed 61% of its budget, and in Chapter VII, Capital Transfers, for all these things that the advisor just told us, only 52.2%. In the German Research Plan, the development of innovation, the execution, did not reach 65%. If we consider the variations from 2009 to today, the cut is more than 24%. In innovations, the budgets of the Union in the last year have been cut by 7% in 2014, from 110 million to 103, but if we set ourselves in 2009 the cut was 47%, less than 94 million; the rate of business confidence in the state is 0.1%, but in Galicia almost 8%; gross capital formation, half as much as in the state. All investments are low. Without changing the production model or strategic orientation, the deterioration of industrial soil does not solve the problem of industrial development in Galicia. I will end up, Madam President, by saying that with regard to business land selling plans, in fact, a lot of business soil will be sold – I suppose that 30% of what you're talking about – but the only thing we know is that this is a lot of propaganda. The solution is no longer propaganda, nor is it even the return to the speculation of the ground, as it was in preterit times, that there was only to speculate. Those entrepreneurs who had plans bought 5 and sold 25. Galicia, of course, is not interested in the speculation of the soil, she's interested in real industrial development, but with numbers, not propaganda. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u65	Thank you, Mr. Pombo. Parliamentary Group of Alternative Left Gallega, Mr Ramón Vázquez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u66	Good morning to all and to all. The reality is that I imagine Parliament cannot stay away from the present state of our country, and the present state of our country today is that a national media made public the documents of the treasurer of the People's Party, Mr. Rosendo Naseiro, born in Vilalba, a trusted man of Fraga, president of this country for more than fifteen years, showing the existence of an accounting B, which has managed funds over 200 million pesetas of the time, and the existence of an accounting B of the People's Party since its inception; a party that has also ruled Galicia for thirty-four years of our autonomy. And this has a lot to do with our economic delays, our industrial delays and our business delays. The truth is, I have listened carefully to the lady's appearance as counsellor and I have to say that it looked like the presence of an executive of a real estate, a seller of a real estate. We've talked about discounts, bonuses, plots, but we haven't talked about planning, industrial project, business project to Galicia. All this has shed light on their absence, and it is precisely that lack of planning in industrial and business policy that causes the current situation of serious crisis for our country. And that lack of business and industrial policy has its faithful reflection also on the design of the map of industrial polygons and business polygons in our country. There are currently 121 business polygons in Galicia. 40% of the Greek municipalities have their own business polygon, 117 of the existing 314. Since the end of the 1990s, the Galician Union has invested more than 500 million euros in business polygons, to which the money invested by the municipalities, the European Union, the Central State, etc. should be added. Business polygons thus accumulate multi-millionaire investments. Galicia currently has – according to the official data available in Igape – 47 million square meters of business soil, including those managed by Xestur, the Galego Institute of Living and Soil and SEA. Currently in Galicia, at the same time, there are more than 7 million square meters of industrial soil – the empty industrial soil, we refer to. Despite this situation, the sectoral business area management plan and the intentions of the Government of Greece are to create millions of square meters of new industrial soil, new business soil, in the coming years. In other words, after a business soil bubble that we haven't left yet, we're already preparing another one. And in order to solve this problem, this obvious problem, there is no other idea to the German Government that puts the country's business soil at the balance price, offering 50% – half of its price – bonuses at 65% of the available soil today. This is an obvious demonstration of the failure of the criterion of this government; a failure of criterion which, in addition, has two equally evicted phases: A first stage in which abusive prices were imposed on the public corporate soil, blocking and impeding the establishment of companies and industries in Galicia, as has happened – mentioned here – with the flight of companies to the north of Portugal due to the delay in the implementation of the prices of industrial soil and the available industrial floor. Now, fifteen years after they were promised, for example, in the case of the Snow Mine Rescue Logistics Platform, the available soil is put at the balance price, and in this second phase many of those who bought plots at a certain price see how those same plots are worth half what they paid, providing an obvious speculation. So there are many industrialists, many entrepreneurs, who feel cheated by this government for paying a price that they thought were abusive at that time. That is clearly the uncertainty, the instability, the lack of foresight that provokes the policies of this Greek government. And so now this council now presents itself and does as a real estate, as it said before: announces square meters at round prices, business alone in Galicia; a marketing campaign as if it were a real estate where the industrial, economic and business policy of this government is the sale of industrial soil plots. All an innovation in economic development for our country! So this whole cluster of desatinos, this whole cluster of erratic policies, the absence of a clear and defined industrial policy for Galicia has an obvious relationship to the design of our business land map, because we understand that design of the business land map has to go hand in hand with the design of an industrial policy for our country. But the problem is that Galicia has no industrial policy, unless we understand by industrial policy the dismantling of our industry; they are indeed effective. Galicia lost 10,000 companies – 10,000 companies! – in five years, according to official data from the National Institute of Statistics. Galicia lost 40,000 jobs in the industrial sector, 2,500 of them in the last quarter, if we take into account the INE data referred to in January 2015. This must be that crazy and so betrayed and carried away economic recovery. But this absolute failure in the industrial sector affects all areas and sectors: in the food sector, in the textile sector, in the wood and paper sector, in the extractive industries, in the energy sector... the economic sanctuaries and the sanctuaries of employment in our country are acute and acute. And what is the solution? Put the industrial soil on balance. Bloody also at the industrial employment rate, as we said, with the loss of 40,000 jobs. In this situation, in this context, one might wonder what the real intentions of the Government are. What are the real intentions? Well, right now, in the middle of the electoral campaign, selling an effective policy when we know we're doing the opposite. Galicia was in 2014 the state-wide community with a higher decline in the industrial production index, which was 4.1% less. If we take the January 2015 data into account, the industrial production index decreases by 4.8%. That's why we understand that you, Counselor, the German Government, should clarify what you're going to do and how you're going to occupy the empty industrial soil and how you're going to favor that it involves industrial and business development for Galicia; who and how you're going to occupy those 7 million square meters of empty industrial soil in the future, because if there are no companies, if there's no industry, you'll hardly be able to occupy that industrial soil. In short, what is your planning? How will the industrial soil be ordered? Because the government's obligation is not to cement our municipalities and cities without forecast, without estimates of profits, without rational studies of industrial development. The Government must do an industrial soil demand study, plan, allow an orderly distribution, promote sectoralization, specialization and industrial innovation. That's industrial policy for a country. The Government of Greece must also improve the management of existing infrastructures in the business areas of our country, it must improve the provision of active and viable business policies in the field of electricity supply, in the field of cleaning, waste collection, in the field of monitoring, in the conservation and maintenance of roads, in the provision of telecommunications infrastructures, in the provision of public transport for employees who provide their services in industrial areas, in the area of reconciling the family and working life of employees and employees. How many industrial polygons do you have in your vicinity a child's school for workers and workers? In short, what the German Government has to do is plan, organize and act. Finally, provide and provide. None of this has been done in your presence, Counselor. I don't know if you realize the importance of the role you have to play in this matter. You've transmitted your wish and abula in equal doses, similar doses, but the people need solutions. We keep waiting for them. Let's hope that in his next intervention something more progresses than the industrial policy strategy of our country. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u67	Thank you very much, Mr Vázquez. For the Socialist Group, Mr. Sánchez Bugallo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u68	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good morning, gentlemen. Good morning, too, Mrs. Environment, Territory and Infrastructure Advisor. In fact, perhaps my first words should be and will be welcome and greeting, precisely because they are voluntarily appearing in this House to expose industrial soil policy by their department. And so they're the first ones, but unfortunately, I have to introduce some nuances. The first is that this appearance takes place more than ten months after his taking possession; that is, his time led him to appear. And the second, Counsellor, which I think it is important to nuance by his intervention is that we cannot evaluate only these last four months of the Government of Galician Union, we have to evaluate at least the six years and peak that he has been ruling. It looks like you when a legislation has passed, when it goes beyond the next half and when less than eighteen months are left for the next autonomous elections, so we have to make a global assessment. I also want to tell you, Counsellor, that our group is absolutely critical of the industrial soil policy followed by the Galician Union, not since now, but since 1981. I, if I had to qualify it – and I don't want to exaggerate it – and even if I was thought to be, would have to qualify it as erratic and uncoordinated; erratic, by its continuous vessels and by the lack of criteria shown on multiple occasions, and uncoordinated because the performance of the Territorial Management Council – or of the MATI, as they now call it – has never been coordinated, for example, with the Economic and Industrial Council. This is something very obvious, although then, if I have some time left, I'll talk a little more about it. I also have to tell you that a few months ago by this parliamentary group, in view of the evidence of this lack of control and decoupling, we proposed that your advisors take care of the production of the soil and that the management of that soil would pass to the Industry Council. Two years ago, in this Parliament, his predecessor – I have to say, not his own request, but from an interpellation made by this parliamentary group – to expose us then the good news of his special industrial land sale plan and the things that were going to be done. So we told him that the plan was insufficient and late, and I think we're short. I'm not going to make any criticism but to collect your own words. You, when you took stock of the result of that plan and said it was sold more solo in four months – 30% more – than in the previous two years, it perfectly reflected the complete fiasco that was that plan, as it had been announced. But I have to tell you, Your Honor, that after listening to your intervention I think you face some problem but you don't face the central problem they have or the central problems they have. One – which is obvious and has already been spoken here – is that of the disability demonstrated in many respects by the Galician Institute of Living and Solo. And it is – and I can't help but refer to it too – as a paradigmatic example of success with Plisan. On 29 September 2000, the protocol was signed and will be launched; on 17 January 2001 the sectoral plan was finally adopted on 15 May 2002. And today, 13 years later – when they're about to reach 13 years later – we have 127 million euros invested, a devastated mountain, an artificial lagoon resulting from abandonment and determination, but we don't have any square meter of industrial soil. Even what we know today is that, if everything goes well and after investing 30 million euros more – one part invested by its department and another part invested by the Ministry of Development, which has just tendered today the connections of that polygon – in 2017 – after 157 million euros invested – we will have the fifth part of that industrial polygon available. I think it's a real fiasco, and we still don't know what price it'll come out or what price it'll sell. But I think the most serious problem that has been in his counseling for a long time is that industrial soil policy has always been posed with a purely real estate vision. I mean, if I had to compare it, I would compare it to a company that acted and that was very powerful in the area of Santiago called Mahía. He bought alone where it was cheap, then he managed to re-align that solo – in the case of Junta, through his own mechanisms – and then sold it; and that was the business. The problem is that this did not take into account the social cost or socio-economic costs or even the urban repercussions of that policy that followed. I'm going to give you an example: Do you know how many square meters of industrial soil he created his counsellorship in thirty-five years of autonomy in the cities of Coruña and Vigo? None; it's a low balance. I mean, industrial soil is created in many places where there are no people, there are no people, and there is no demand; and it is not created where there is demand, where that industrial soil is needed. They're on their sales plan right now. You know that plan is not being applied in a homogeneous and balanced way. It's not sold any more soil where there's more demand, not for sale the biggest discounts where the price is more expensive, but according to other criteria. And then there are places where that soil goes for sale at 12 euros or 20 euros meter/square and there are other places where it's sold at 120 or 130. Do you evaluate the socio-economic consequences that this can have, the phenomenon that can occur from moving from one place to another? Have you enabled what consequences is producing that? Because for a company to buy the soil at 130 euros or 20 is something that weighs on deciding the placement of that company, and that will have consequences. Right now, in the next contest, what do you announce? 460,000 meters: 100,000 in the Coruña and Pontevedra, where 80% of the population lives; three hundred and a thousand peaks in the provinces where only 20% live. Do you think that's what they're doing? With regard to northern Portugal, the lordship, in the province of Pontevedra, in the Mos polygon, I see that it is at 126 euros; in the port of Molle, at 120; in the cheapest, that is Arbo, at 30 euros the metro. And that's why you're going to compete with polygons that sell 1 euro a meter or rent 0,06 euros a meter? Do you know where the difference lies? In Portugal they understand that business soil is a tool to create jobs and to compete and, unfortunately, in Galicia, we remain trapped in that real estate vision of that industrial soil. They think that business soil is like making a road or a high-capacity road, and here we don't, here we keep thinking it's an investment, that we have to get the money invested directly. In short, what gives me the impression is that to a large extent what you're doing is the same as a liquidation company: they sell stocks, they liquidate stocks, they start by sites and start by stocks that have the most difficult to settle; in short, they cash. But what must be done is industrial policy, what must be done is to create jobs, what must be done is an integral plan – as we have proposed several times in this plenary and in the corresponding commission that has always been rejected by its group – to facilitate the creation and deployment of companies, offering rent-only, offering ships built in rent, so that they can function as farmers and start creating companies there. I mean, in short, they have to put this huge capital -- the more than 500 million euros invested in the soil -- to produce creating jobs, not to get it back to cash with it. Your Honor, I hope you will encourage yourself to bring a genuine plan to this plenary or bring it to the corresponding commission. And, of course, from our political group we offer you all the collaboration to get it forward. But I'm afraid again that this will be a new failed opportunity, as were all the previous ones that brought. To the facts I am sending myself, and soon we will be able to talk about it again. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u69	Thank you, Mr. Bugallo. The People's Group has the word of Mr. Jaime Castineira.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u70	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, gentlemen. The truth is I was ordering the papers because I was amazed at what I heard. Mr. Bugallo, what you have to hear and what I've heard, and now what you just said! And the same friends. To get them an idea, I'm going to read them, because there's nothing better than reading what they wrote and even signed – but I hope to have the papers here. Mrs. Martínez, Mr. Ramón Vázquez, amended in this Parliament on 21-04-2014 and signed by Mrs. María Consuelo Martínez García and as a spokesman for Mr. What they asked for was to adapt the price of industrial soil in the provinces of Pontevedra – the rest of them were provinces already several in Pontevedra – to the market price in Portugal, guaranteeing any price greater than the price of the Luso country and bringing services equalized; that is, they were asking for a discount that they now criticize. That is to say, before they criticized one thing: you have to ask for a discount to be competitive; and now that a plan is offered that is a reality – and then we're going to talk about whether it's propaganda or reality – it turns out they're making problems because you're really down and you're putting a competitive and planned price because you've changed and you've changed the real conditions of the economic situation of our country and of Spain – and of Galicia, of course – but you've been taking steps from the policies of the People's Party. Above all, ladies and gentlemen, trust, something that was not there years ago, because there were some governments who were dedicated to desvaliating this country and left confidence for themselves. No one invested even if they gave him the floor, Mr. Bugallo, no one; and you know that he was mayor of Santiago. And I guess you know that company you said very well, Mahía, I suppose you know her very well, and you explained the procedure. But, look, there's nothing better than looking at what the Bipartite did, Mr. Pombo, yes. Do you know how many yards of soil we paid – because we paid it with taxes from all the Greeks – and bought the Bipartite any year? Tell me anybody, or 2008? –year of economic fury, the crisis had not yet reached – seven and a half million, a little more than seven and a half million square metres of toxins, soil of special agricultural protection, soil of special forest protection and soil of water protection. Yes, we can talk about several polygons that you wanted to do and that you left, of course, without doing and without paying, with the debts of Xestur. But we can talk about Barbaza, 900,000 square meters of special forest protection and water, 100 percent of the 900,000 square meters; we can talk about Paderne de Allariz, 1,100,000 square meters, more than 25% in a special area of agroforestry and water protection; we can talk about Taboadela, the Ribeda Valley, pasted to Paderne de Allariz, 1,200,000 square meters of soil... There was at all: special protection of waters, special agroforestry protection, archaeological remains, high voltage lines and even affecting the AVE line; at all, less a project with meaning. And that's what they called planning, Mr. Bugallo. It's a pity you weren't at the time of the Bipartite to tell Mr. Touriño how he had to plan the industrial soil: as he who sows potatoes anywhere. Where do we have to buy farms? There. Do we pay them? Yes, with funding through two banks. It's funny, there's a very expensive financing – I'd say – and do you know how much the square meter of land, rustic soil with special protection – that didn't make sense because, of course, anyone who had a farm in a place where you wanted to make an industrial polygon played the lottery? For between 10-12 euros; far above market prices, of course. And if we go to Taboadela, it is curious – and Mr. Pombo speaks of propaganda – what was propaganda, Mr. Pombo, but of the first division. When you started, when you bought 1,200,000 square meters in that area, especially protection on all sides, as I said. That's right, a few days before the 2009 election began to unfold, there were coughs: "We're already doing the works." Neither bid nor sectoral plan, absolutely nothing, nothing at all, anything at all; what mattered was what people thought, right? It doesn't matter what you do, but what you understand people you do and it's done. And you thought they'd get the votes. But you see what happened to them, you see... No, they're there, they're made, and therefore easily verifiable. If we're lying, you can easily disassemble it. But unfortunately for us, for Galicia and for Ourense, it is true. And, look, the same thing happened in Baamonde, because in Baamonde it's the other way around; in Baamonde, without land, no sectoral plans and without anything to dictate a work and to help them without having the land where the Baamonde polygon was going to be, right, Mr. Pombo? Mr. Bugallo, that is indeed management and agility, yes, but, of course, there is. And if we were talking about the Gandaras, you were talking about the prices. In this, perhaps, there can even be an interesting debate, you do. If the industrial soil can be given as an equipment, and therefore free, talk to your colleagues on this side of the left, because they say there is speculation, lowering the price to 50%, paying over 50 euros the square meter, for example, in the Gandaras, and saying there is speculation. That's right, at the age of three they have to have the investment made, I don't know if they know; in three years what buys a plot has to have the investment made, and if not, it returns again to Xestur. That's not called speculation, you can't resell, it has to be the investment made. I don't think so. So let them know, that they seem to have not been properly informed. But look, do you know the price you left, Mr. Bugallo, and you, Mr. Pombo, with the Bipartite for the Gandaras Polygon? Between 115 and 130 euros a square meter. That's the price you guys had set, and they're telling us now that we're doing it for free. And he's talking about the rental ships. Man, I'm taking a data out here. It's just fabulous that I'm talking about it, because I love it, because they have for all of you; in four years they have for everything, but for bad. Look, Bipartito, made a public contest to three euros or square metre – for rent –. They spent 143,000 euros on a contest to make a project. We're talking about the Reigosa polygon, you know where it is, right? In Reigossa, yes, in Pontevedra. They make ships between 430 and 659 meters each, 3 euros/square meter of rental; i.e. 1,977 euros/month to the ship. Of course, there was not a single one, not a single one occupied, not one, that's a success. And you're coming up with lessons on how to do industrial politics. Look, at the entrance, there are some polygons that logically obey – for example, the Lugo Gandaras and other series – to a planning before the Bipartite, and of course they are working. And the data the advisor gave is not propaganda data, it's real data: 111 parcels sold in the first phase of this sales process that is being done, they call it real estate or they call it whatever they want. But what we're interested in... I don't care if they call us real estate, what I'm worried about is that you don't see what's behind you, that's 111 plots sold, 70 already written, and that's 111 companies that're going to put themselves in different industrial polygons. Come tell Lugo's people – and perhaps Mr. Orozco, talk to him to see what he thinks – that soon there will be strikes in the Gandaras polygon, to set an example, and to see that they think. You see, they think the lights when they start deploying companies there and they start generating jobs, first, for the construction of these industries, and secondly, for the jobs that generate their own activity in these industries. They're talking about Plisán. It seems to bother them that they finally unlock and there's a government that can put it in motion and that by the end of the year the plots are for sale. They seem to be upset that things are going well. Well, these are positive data, and I want to congratulate the advisor... yes, publicly, I want to congratulate her on the work she's done in these few ten months that she's been in front of the Council. He was able to give an important boost and continue with a work that had been developed earlier by Mr. Hernández. Yes, he was able to do it, and, of course, we're convinced that he's on the right line, on the right path. [[Murmurs.]] Why? Because it's time. Yes, Plisán will have plots for sale, in spite of you, even though you weren't able to put it in motion. That's what bothers them. Yes, you've been ruling for four years... it looks like we're... if you've already put the medal on Vigo's mayor, man! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Don't worry, he'll put a statue on the roundabout, on the boat; I'm sure he looks pretty, mecachi in the sea! [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]] But don't you realize that for a while your partner asked for industrial soil for Vigo and Coruña, and 99% of Vigo and Coruña soil is in the General Plan as residential soil? Don't you realize, Mr. Bugallo? It's just that we know something about that, huh! And logically, in a county that's every urban nucleus, it can hardly put an industrial polygon. The place is in your surroundings. And logically, look, don't... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u71	Finish, please. Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u72	This is, Counselor, really...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u73	Quiet, please. Silence, please, and finish, Mr. Castineira.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u74	I see that during the Bipartite, which governed the Vigo mayorate and the Coruña mayorate, they planned large polygons and business parks, both in the Coruña and in Vigo. I see you do, I see you do. Counselor, thank you and I thank you for that job. Continue on that line, because, of course, I am convinced that it is, that it is the time, because it is the moment when there is confidence, and the companies of Spain, Galicia and outside are relying on Spain and Galicia to invest; therefore, it is time to put the conditions in place for them to come and generate jobs, which is what interests all the Greeks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u75	Thank you, Mr. Castineira. Replica. Mrs. Environmental, Territorial and Infrastructure Adviser.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u76	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, of course this is not a plan to think about promises or propaganda, it's facts that prove its success. A few months ago, ten months ago, I'm a counselor, and I come here to figure out the facts, the results and the numbers; these are figures that are made real. And of course, in the German Government we want to keep moving along the path of growth and the path of job creation, so we want to focus our efforts on building trust in our entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs. And so, in the face of other times when business soil policy was completely managed beyond real needs, we are now betting on a cross-cutting, coordinated and, of course, planned policy; yes, planned, in support of stimulus – planned, coordinated and transversal – to industrial development in our community; a policy that is based on the implementation of a package of measures that seek to create favourable conditions for businesses to no doubt bet on by Galicia as the headquarters of new projects or to expand existing ones as well. As I mentioned in my first speech, this is a set of decisions that are contained in the global strategy of business competitiveness of the Greek Government, Galicia Industry 4.0, which are so critical of you, but which the economic and industry advisor explained here. It is an industrial competitiveness agenda which, in the particular case of the soil of the business parks, collects actions which translate not only into facilities to access the plots, but also into better conditions for their financing so that companies can materialise their initiatives: tender for sales of parcels at fine prices in Xestur, with discounts of between 30 % and 50 %, agreement between IGVS, Igape and Xestur to count on measures that favour financing. And the second phase will be a second phase of land sale program that we will activate, whose contest we will call at the end of this same month of May, and which will be for sale, with discounts of between 30% and 50%, 460,000 square meters in 21 parks properties of the IGVS. As you see, ladies and gentlemen, a series of actions that pursue the same end: promoting the business initiative in Galicia, because, as I told you in my first intervention, facilitating the development of new projects is also creating opportunities, new opportunities, so that the Greeks can also find jobs. These initiatives that we are launching to undermine the business soil owned by IGVS and also by Xestur cannot be understood as isolated or unplanned measures, as you criticise; on the contrary, they respond to the strategy that we have identified in the Galician Business Area Sector Plan, which programs and prioritizes business soil actions in our community and quantifys and locates the required area of industrial soil, defining areas of our territory that are likely to accommodate actions to meet long-term needs. And for the soil property of the Galego de Vivenda e Solo, Igape and Xestur Institute, it states that the demand – Mr Bugallo – of the plots by the companies must be duly accredited and verified through the Register of Demands of Solo Empresarial. Mrs. Martínez and a few others, it's not true that the set of actions are only favoring businesses. The whole of these measures are promoting the development of Galicia, the development of the Greeks, because there is no better social policy than creating jobs; creating jobs and quality. We can't offer any better contribution to the well-being than giving you a quality job, and that's the bet that makes this government with this action: mobilise 170 million euros in three years, that's where it's believed, in the projects presented, and the advisor doesn't say it, it's believed in submitted documents; 170 million euros to mobilize in three years and 5,600 jobs. If that's not favoring the Greeks, you tell me, Mrs. Martínez, what it is. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out, to give a fact, that I believe it clearly marks the major differences between the management of the current Italian Executive and the bipartite Government, because the bonuses we are applying in the sale of business soil are actually serving to put for sale, at a competitive price, only of the promoted parks – almost always I have to say, Mr Bugallo – by mere whim of the Bipartite, because we must say that we act to return to the reasonable prices that were totally unabated because of the mismanagement and the worst execution – I have to say so – of the business soil by the previous Government: only purchased at prices above market prices, works carried out without control, huge financial costs for dealing large parks in a single phase and purchases of completely unnecessary soil. Ladies and gentlemen, the two-party government has bought 11 million square meters of soil at prices outside the market, which, in many cases, were not fit – as it has been said here – for a business park, and still today we are paying it; an recklessness that I naturally assumed a great mortgage at the Galego Institute of Vivenda and Solo, because, ladies and gentlemen, the business parks that currently have the highest prices are the ones that you have developed and bought. Faced with this, the current Union is carrying out a responsible, rigorous policy. Mr. Sánchez spoke of the lack of discretion, of the lack of foresight. Of course, it's a comprehensive and coordinated policy to promote the sale of industrial soil, and with it the impulse of new business projects on our land, to create new opportunities and to create jobs where demand exists. With measures such as selling industrial soil at high prices – I insist – there have been results that are certainly satisfactory and good news. As for the year 2015, we've had 252,000 square meters, which means that in the first four months Xestur sold almost as business alone as in 2008, and almost even would say that as in the year 2007; the economic situation is quite different from that then, as you know, Mr. Bugallo. In 2008, 282,000 square meters sold; in 2007, 325,000 square meters sold; in four months of 2015, 252,000 square meters sold. And it also means that until the end of April Xestur quadrupled the sale of soil registered in also four months of 2009, when you had, Mr. Bugallo, responsibilities in the Government. In the first four months, in 2009, 61,000 square meters; in the first four months of the year 2015, 252,000 square meters. This is the last fact, ladies and gentlemen, of which the German Government, of course, thinks it's good news. What I think is that you should also be glad because it means that entrepreneurs are betting on Galicia. They're betting on Galicia because they see a suitable place to invest. And the investment is creating jobs, the investment is creating jobs. And just with this, Mrs. Martínez said there was no new measure. I referred to my first intervention in the new decree. We just passed a new decree at the board of directors on 23 April, which regulates the legal regime of land owned by the IGVS, which includes initiatives I have to say novices, I think, yes, that they are going to take one step further to facilitate the purchase of parcels and encourage business activity. A decree that facilitates the form of payment, opening the door to payment settlement; establishes the possibility of direct adjudication when it comes to enlargements of existing business parks and unique projects; which allows the adjudication of non-urbanized soils to companies that need large surfaces. Yes, it allows the adjudication of urbanized soils to companies that need large surfaces. Indeed, ladies and gentlemen, this decree expressly collects the adjudication of parcels in surface law. This is the first time we have resorted to this soil marketing formula. It will be a procedure whereby, as you know, you will not be the owner of the plot, but you will have the right to the surface on which you can build. It's about exploring new formulas, making it easier for entrepreneurs to start up their businesses more easily, and ultimately trying to fix industrial fabric in Galicia and promote employment generation. You were all talking about industrial soil in Portugal. I'd ask them one thing, not to make misleading publicity of the conditions of the business soil in Portugal, because with this attitude they seem to be supporting the relocation of our companies; they're doing them a weak favor. Looks like you want companies to go to Portugal. I think it has to be made clear that the low prices in Portugal do not correspond to sale of soil, it corresponds to right-of-surface adjudication, similar to rent; it does not correspond to sale of soil. When you make comparisons, you have to do them strictly, you have to find models that are paired and homogeneous, and, of course, this is not the case. We're talking about equipping business parks that little or nothing – I would say – has to do with the infrastructures and services offered by the German industrial polygons. If you ask us to take note of those initiatives that are being implemented elsewhere and which can be interesting, I assure you that we will analyse them, study them and adopt them, of course, as long as they guarantee quality standards. What we're not willing to do is assume models that involve, for example, lower wages. For that, of course, with me it doesn't count, nor with the German Government. [[Murmurs.]] Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs. Martínez, we are not alien to competition that is generating luxurious business parks, and you also spoke of Plisán. We set up this whole package of initiatives and Plisán as well. We unlock and reactivate a fundamental infrastructure for Vigo's development, the Salvaterra-As Neves Logistics Platform. I have to say that the blockade was especially due to a wrong decision when the condominium was broken, and that was the bipartisan clearly. That was a totally wrong decision that totally blocked this project. [[Murmurs.]] With regard to Plisán, I can finally say it's unlocked, it's on its way...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u77	Quiet, quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u78	In December 2014, the Board of Trustees approved the reinstatement of the Plisán Condominium Regime.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u79	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u80	Shortly thereafter, in March, we signed the agreement back to the condominium, definitely unblocked, and just a few days ago, last Thursday, the Board of Directors approved the work for the first phase of the general systems: roads, lighting, sanitation, supplies, 13.5 million euros, and it was published yesterday in the Official Journal of Galicia. Therefore, the works are under contract, the bidding of the Plisán, of the general systems is under way. A whole boost that will allow you to start selling business soil in Plisán at the end of this year at prices, of course, competitive; I assure you that they will be competitive. The sale of the first plots will be under two modalities: sale of soil and also fine-tuning by surface right. A facility that will ensure that this logistics platform becomes an important business attraction, which contributes to the generation of employment and, of course, to the dynamisation of the economy of our land, of Galicia. As you see, ladies and gentlemen, the current Government of the Union is committed to fixing industrial fabric in Galicia. We are convinced that it is worth continuing to work to facilitate economic activity and also to facilitate job creation, so we are going to continue with the policies of incentives to sell business soil, which have already been effective, because creating new investments is to create wealth, of course, it is to create jobs, and, ladies and gentlemen, selling business alone is to facilitate new projects and, of course, generate jobs. For my part, nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u81	Thank you, Counselor. Special round of clarifications. Joint Parliamentary Group. Mrs. Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u82	Thank you, President. Mr. Castineira, it's true that I introduced that amendment and it's true that I didn't say anything here that I was against it. I'm saying it's more of the same, that there's nothing new. Apart from a change in soil prices, nothing is offered to companies to install themselves in Galicia, and they're not coming from Portugal here now. Some decisions had to be made earlier, which had to be made when in Galicia the square metre was sold in Plisán at 300 euros and in Portugal at 60 euros. Now you arrive in the elections with more propaganda, as you usually do. Speaking of the corporate confidence index, in the first quarter it dropped by 4.8%, so I don't know what flowers you're throwing. In the inter-trimonthly descent of the first quarter, Galicia was the second community by the tail, after Balearics. In the opinion of entrepreneurs, this inter-trimonthly data is the most pessimistic of all autonomous communities, with a decrease of 22.7%. In the second quarter, Balearics, who won us down in the first quarter, rose by 10.6% to corporate confidence while Galicia is only 5.8%. And as for the positive expectations that the Greek entrepreneurs see, in Galicia it's 16.8%, while in the state it's 20.7%. So there's nothing to brag about here or to say that Junta is setting up different policies to attract capital investment to business creation, and much less industry. You speak of it as a coordinated, planned and transversal policy. Well, now explain it, because that's what I can say, too. All right? Those are empty words, they say nothing. You have shown neither coordination nor planning nor transversality. Now, as a wonderful speech, and as a headline in the press, I don't want to tell you! I asked him what services he offers to companies; what he offers you with regard to energy; what he offers with respect to transport; what he offers with respect to communication; what he offers with respect to services. How do you plan to promote this industrial activity? Are you betting in some way by strategic sectors? Is there any policy of attracting high value added strategic companies, with investments in R+D+i to attract them, or are we simply on demand, to see who asks, and gives us just as much as a warehouse as an innovative industry? Anyway, come on, give us the same! Therefore, there is no planning, coordination or transversality beyond propaganda. He says that the big contribution for the Greeks is going to be job creation; quality employment, in addition. Quality employment. If we're talking about 5,600 jobs throughout Galicia, direct and indirect jobs, and the studies tell us that for each industrial job, 4 jobs are generated in the rest of the sector, we're really talking about you talking about creating, at most, 1,400 industrial jobs, throughout Galicia, in 3 years. And that's the achievement that comes to us here! There's nothing new! I'm really sorry to have to tell you, but there's nothing strict. Responsible policy, strict policy, that is, has filled this with totally empty words. Besides, he literally said: investment is creating jobs. Depends where you invest. What investment? Plisán's investment? How much work has been created? How many companies have you attracted? How much did you compete with Portugal? It's that really, really, I think they should, at least, be measured. I'm not saying that they will punish themselves, that they will lax themselves, that they will come here to tell us what evil they have done and that they will change; but they will not come here to sell what is nonexistent. Obviously, I believe that no one in the opposition speaks of the relocation to Portugal as something positive, but we have seen him denounce. But you can't lie either, saying that the opposition brings here false data of the price of industrial soil, Portugal and Galicia, because we were not talking about the acquisition of surface rights, but about the value of land market. But he also has –I'm sorry to tell him to let him know that we lend him or that we give him better services. We've seen what happened in Plisán with Mitsubishi, who had to leave because there were no services, and those are the big criticisms of almost all companies. So I'm very sorry that the Union is back on propaganda and not betting on the industrial development of a competitive industry for our country. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u83	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. Mr. Pombo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u84	Thank you, Mr. President. Advertising and propaganda don't stop. Mr. Castineira, I'm sorry you're missing your memory and you're setting enough useless examples to defend your arguments. Year 2010. The German Government at that time – I think it was from the People's Party – announces, along with Mayor Ribeira and more from the Poor, referring to that business park you don't want to do, announces at that time: "Be calm, mayors, that this park is going to be executed and expropriated by the Greek Government. So calm down." And now Mr. Castineira comes and tells us just the opposite, and he talks for these microphones that even the Bipartite – let's say – expropriated. The Bipartite actually left a finished project for it to be done. You go there and say it, and come here now and deny it, that's your job. That you, like the advisor, be very aware that the famous Bipartite bought 11 million square meters they didn't like. Now come here announcing what they sell. I mean, they want to sell it, but they didn't want it to be bought. Sorry! Clearly, the Galego Nationalist Block is not against that there is business alone, so when it had government responsibilities it was made with meters and square meters to enable these business parks to create jobs, Madam Counsellor, and not to create propaganda. So, what's the reality today? The reality is they come here and try to wrap us up and change, and where they said, say Diego. The BNG model is not the Portugal model. Counsellor, perhaps there's some former colleague sitting here, in these seats, who has a model to go with all the companies to Portugal. Of course, our government, the government of the BNG, when it had that responsibility, was not that way. Our model was to create jobs in Galicia based on square meters of business park, which says Mr. Castineira is very expensive. The advisor came here, put the example of the Park of the Gandaras, in Lugo, and the price – I don't know – seemed very expensive, 100 euros, 110, 120. You know, Mr. Castineira, that the last price paid by the Heavenly, next to this park, was much more than that amount. Heaven, the old man, surpassed that amount, and came here to tell us what it turns out to be expensive. Of course, the Gandaras Park has turned out to be public; not like the other one, better. It has low- and medium-voltage light power; not like the other one, much better. Telephone network, fiber optics, separate supply of rain showers from dirty water, gas network, sanitation and even railway terminal. And come here to convince Mr. Castineira that the Park of the Gandaras is expensive! The problem, ladies and gentlemen, is not the price of parks, the problem is industrial policy. The problem is to come here with the propaganda of creating jobs that no one sees, but that nobody sees all over the country. Industrial activity – I repeat – in last year in Galicia decreased by 2.5%, while in the state it rose by 2.3%. The famous Greek investment plan, from 2009 to today, which is when the People's Party rules, has cut 24%, and 47% is also cut by support for innovation. That confidence index of what they're talking about, in Galicia, is down by 10% when the state level is more or less stable. The business figure of the industry in our country, a -3.4 percent, when in the state it rises almost 1%. And the electricity tariff, which the People's Party could make some initiative in that sense, as the Basques do, but not, in Galicia, of electricity tariff, zero, which is also important for industries to be able to come to this country of ours. When Feijóo came to the government, there were 163,214 jobs in the industrial sector. In January 2015, there are 130,000 jobs, i.e. 32,300 jobs less in the industrial sector. That is – let's say – what Mr Feijóo and the Government of the People's Party did. Therefore, I do not know whether the Government of Galicia, in the face of the decline in the industrial production index of Galicia, in the face of the decline in the turnover of the industry, has planned to change everything on the basis of the sale of lowered business soil, subsidized with flexible prices, with the possibility of direct adjudication and with the derogation of the provisions referred to in Decree 253000/2007...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u85	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u86	...that they were some stipulations designed to avoid speculation with industrial land, which was expropriated precisely to create activity, to create economy and to create jobs, but not to return to the model of Lugo's Sky Park, by setting an example, which was to buy lots of plots and then sell them at a much more expensive price, that is, to speculate with the land. The model – let's say – of the BNG has always been not speculating on the land, but investing in land to create in reality jobs, which we don't see here. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u87	Thank you, Mr. Pombo. Parliamentary Group of the Left Galician Alternative. Mr. Vázquez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u88	No doubt Mr. Castineira and Mr. Orozco – not the discussion – know a lot about urban planning and works. In Lugo there are real monuments to urban planning: the building of Barañón is a very clear sample, and the index of occupation of the Gandaras polygon is also another sample of planning for business polygons. The index of occupation of these over 2 million square meters, currently, of course, is obvious to anyone who walks that polygon. You cannot forever refer to the actions of the Bipartisan Government, because you have been ruling for six years, six years! And the summary of these six years is very simple, very simple: there is no industrial soil where you need it and it remains industrial soil where you don't need it. That's the simple summary, in a sentence, of your industrial soil policy over the past six years. How did you solve this easy-to-sum incidence? Well, putting the country on balance, selling the country. That's their economic policy, that's their industrial policy. And if that measure, if you put the plots at balance price, it's so effective, why didn't you do it before? It's been six years! Did it take six years to realize that putting the stock price was the solution? Well, I don't think it looks like an effective government. Ms. Counsellor – I said earlier – is presented as the representative of Promotions Feijóo S.A. They present a country of discounts and absence of targets, absence of strategies, absence of organisational measures. And that's what we demand, these are the answers that demand citizenship: what are our strategic sectors and how you're going to work to develop them; what is the geographic distribution of these strategic sectors and their deployment in business polygons; what are our deficit areas and how they're going to prioritize; what is going to be done with the dairy sector, with the energy sector, with the naval sector. Finally, we have been insisting on this a lot of time, and it is not that the Alternative Galician Left, but that the Galician Economic Forum, in a report submitted on industrial soil and Galician industrial and business parks, sets out two clear diagnoses. One first, very obvious: there's a lack of planning in the supply of industrial soil in Galicia, a clear conclusion. The second: Business soil management guidelines are needed for Galicia. So these are the real challenges. Not to sell the country at a balance price, but to boost, establish, enhance management modalities of business parks that make them more efficient; promote the creation of conservation entities; promote the pooling of services, training and innovation of nearby business parks, etc., plan and act. Mr. Castineira, you, as usual, mind. Nothing prevents, in the sales clauses included in this plan, from buying at a balance price a parcel and then selling and speculating with it. That is clear in the terms of this plan. I'll read it literally so you don't question it. The obligation to build and obtain licenses from the first activity is deemed to be fulfilled once the first acquirer, or the subsequent acquirers, believes their compliance. Once these obligations have been accepted, successive buyers will not be subject to the obligations mentioned above. Nothing requires a person who has important economic resources to buy a plot, build a ship, get a license, and then sell when the bids and balances end. Because these balances are going to be undefined, are they always going to be 50% of those plots? You're a real expert on how to get plus-values by buying at one price and selling to another in the urban field too, right? I don't think you're surprised at this. You know what happened in Lugo with the requalification of the land of Fixós, of Bosende, of Bocamaos, and how it incorporated important surpluses to those who got recalable land. This is a very clear example of how speculation is favoured in industrial soil as well. It's obvious. So you can't argue with him. What are you going to say, then, to an entrepreneur, to an industrialist, who bought a parcel at 50 and today, a few days later, it's worth 30 or 20? Which made an excellent investment thanks to you. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u89	Thank you, Mr. Vázquez. People's Parliamentary Group. Mr. Castineira. I'm sorry. Socialist Parliamentary Group. Mr. Sánchez Bugallo. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u90	Don't worry. Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm afraid you'll have to listen to me anyway, and Mr. Castineira too. Starting with Mr. Castineira, you speak of the great success: 111 parcels sold. How many companies are installed in those 111? Is there any crane working at least on one of those 111? I don't have much news, but in any case, time will tell us, and we'll have a chance to see what happens to those 111 plots. What is true is that both you and the Counsellor will encrypt success in the plots sold, and then I'll talk about something more than that. Look, Mr. Castineira and also Mrs. Counselor, Plisan. At the end of the year they'll sell the plots. How successful! Fifteen years later, the plots will be sold without urbanization and without access, because at the end of this year they are neither urbanized nor access. You said it very well, Counselor, yesterday came out published the announcement: 52 days in time to present envelopes. You have to judge, and 18 months of execution. Until 2017 there will be no urbanized plots and there will be no access, because there are still public tenders for access by the Ministry of Development. They're made and not promises. Home! For now they are promises, the facts are to be seen. The first thing we can see is that this decree, of what you claim, which stems from the need to adapt the IGVS situation to the current social and economic situation, has been six years behind. I mean, it took them six years to make a nine-page decree. By the way, if you bother to read the intervention in this plenary, the appeal to the Counsellor, and in a non-law proposition presented by our group, we talked and proposed and we understood that the surface right is one of the issues to be settled. Well, two years later, at least it's contemplated. When you're talking about that everything is now very well, very planned, and that there was no planning before, we must understand, Mr. Castineira and Mrs. Counsellor, who speak of the 29 years of PP's government. They won't blame him for the four years of the bipartisan for all the lack of planning. You've been ruling for thirty years. So they'll talk about yours. But you didn't answer me, Counselor, the two main issues I raised here. One, the effect of business relocation that can cause what you're doing. And I repeat what I said before: now, in the next contest, 460,000 meters of soil, 100,000 between Coruña and Pontevedra, and the rest between Lugo and Ourense. Where 80% of the population lives, 20% of the soil, and 20% of the population, 80% of the soil. You know why they do that? Because they do the same as bad businessmen when they settle stocks, they try to sell first the most difficult to put and end up with what they think they can get economic profitability. That's the real estate criterion I was referring to. You are not valuing what consequences will be derived from, for example, putting the Arbo park at 30 euros and that of Mos and that of Nigrán at 120 euros; or that in Santiago it is at 130 euros and other parks not too far at 20 or 30. That will have consequences for business relocation. Not for new investments, but for companies that have to invest to renew themselves, and in Santiago there was some, who asked for 70,000 meters and that a difference of 100 square meters is 7 million euros, and it will lead them to make decisions. On the fundamental theme... By the way, he was talking about the sale of soil comparing 2007-2008 to now. Do you know what the fundamental difference is? That then there was not alone and now it remains alone; now what there is no one who buys it or what it is hard to find who buys it. The essential element, ladies and gentlemen, is only to provide a solution to employment. The data of Galicia's active population survey has just been published, and the number of people who live on incomes, whether social security or unemployment, exceeds the number of assets they're working on, and that leads to a real catastrophe. We have a huge capital here, 500 million euros, which we can use to produce, to create jobs, to create wealth, to install companies, or to liquidate it, to cash out, and that's what they're doing, because a comprehensive plan is still missing. And we, after hearing the Counselor's lady, very much fear, Counselor, that we should not continue waiting in vain.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u91	Thank you very much, Mr Bugallo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u92	Your board has no mental or business or job creation, only to adjust the accounts between the debt in the Institute's accounts and the assets that are also accounted for in the form of plots of soil. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u93	Thank you very much, Mr Bugallo. People's Group. Mr. Castineira.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u94	Ladies and gentlemen, I have to thank you. I have to thank you, Mr. Vázquez. I have to thank you, Mr. Pombo. It seems to you, from Lugo, to lower the price of the Gandaras, to be boisterous, and you're going to have to explain it to your colleagues there. Of course, I think it's embarrassing. And Mr. Bugallo seems to represent only the interests of Coruña and Vigo. He's worried about the relocation of companies to the province of Lugo and Ourense. You have to have flats! Yes, sir, and forgive me the expression. [[Applause]] And you're going to tell Mr. Beaster because in Lugo you're saying otherwise. That's what you just said, Mr. Bugallo, and it's not the first time you say it, that you care about investments in the province of Lugo. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Look at you, it seems to me... Relax, man, relax! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] It seems to me, Mr. Bugallo, that this is no longer the first time, and I don't know if you have any problems with the province of Lugo, but we are from Lugo if we defend the interests of Lugo and Galicia with proper planning. And look, I'm going to tell you one thing: yes, it's meant precisely because it's the worst provinces. It's a positive discrimination where you've already made the plan Impress this Government of the Union, like the Death Coast, Ferrol, Lugo and Ourense. It started out there, precisely, and I hope there is a powerful company that will settle in any of these four areas, because it will certainly be applauded in Lugo! And look, Mrs. Martínez, it's going to be four jobs. For I wish those 1,000 jobs she despised in Lugo! And if it's 2,000, like she calculated, because if there's 63 plots sold, according to her calculations, they're going to exceed 2,000 jobs in Lugo, I assure you that if we applaud 500, imagine the applause we're going to give with 2,000 jobs! Dislocation, you speak. Do you mean relocation to Portugal? They mean that one of the largest companies that wanted to install in Galicia, setting up an aquaculture theme, with an investment of more than 200 million euros, you dropped it from Galicia to Portugal. You want to talk about that? [[Murmurs.]] They're reading the press today and they're going to see how aquaculture actually is in an important process of improvement, an important process that we've thrown out of Galicia. Yeah, yeah, yeah, that's right there. [[Applause]] And Mr. Pombo spoke to him about the data from the Barbanza Polygon. Well, recently, 106,000 square meters have been launched in the Barbanza Polygon. No, no, no. And what you left on those lands, 100 percent was in a special area of protection. So it was even necessary to adapt the Land Law so that part of these industrial polygons could be a reality, Mr. Pombo. I don't know if you know, but it was impossible, according to the law of the ground, to carry them out. So, if you're working, and the sectoral plan has indeed been approved; and if you've started 106,000 square meters recently in the Barbanza area, between the Caraminal People and Ribeira. Yes, that's a reality. Of course, I'm amazed that you say and that you justify that, as there was a price in the Heavenly, the Gandaras had to have a higher price. That's what you said here, it's collected in the minutes. Fortunately, what we say here is recorded and written. And Mr. Vázquez is the same, balance prices and I don't know what, and bad planning. Do you mind if there's an industrial polygon in the Gandaras? Yes. Is it a government planning for the People's Party? Yes, because when you arrived you were already planned. There was a sectoral plan that you modified, and what they did was that, when there was demand and companies needed industrial soil, you were entertained in how they did and negotiated with the mayor of Lugo to force him to sell because, if not, they expropriated you, and went to banks with credits, paying what the Town Hall of Lugo had to have, which was a proportional part of those land in building. And you, partners in the county, and half partners here, didn't want to. That was the coordination there was at that time, Mr Bugallo; the coordination there was in the bipartite. And you tell me about it, please! When you got this government of the Union to finish the work of the Gandaras, of course there was no demand anymore, because you left, both here and in Spain, crushed everything, and there were no companies that could acquire the land or aspire to the land, that's the reality. And look, from Portugal itself, but in Portugal there are very different conditions, as the Counselor said. And what we're talking about here is these more than 110 plots sold, these more than 170 million euros in planned investments. And if we calculate the 110 plots just over EUR 1 million, we have the 170 million investment, which is a real investment...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u95	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u96	...–Finished, Madam President – and there are possible jobs around 6,000. I wish there were a lot more, because we need it. This is a first step, the second step will come with the second phase, where other polygons will continue to increase because Monforte also exists, also and needs, and other areas of Galicia also need to be thought of. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u97	Thank you very much, Mr. Castineira. The Environment, Territory and Infrastructure Adviser has the floor to close this debate.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u98	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, the action of any responsible government at present, which seems to see prospects for improvement in the Greek economy, cannot be anything other than, of course, facilitating conditions and means for Galicia to be a priority destination for attracting new investments, because only with an intense exercise of entrepreneurship, with policies aimed at consolidating and expanding industrial activity, will we be able to achieve, from the very outset, true economic progress in our community that leads to the greatest well-being of our citizens. Of course, in the self-government executive, in the German Government, that's how we understand it, and that's why in recent months we've focused on our government action by carrying out a comprehensive policy, and if I have to say planned, aimed at creating favourable conditions for Galicia to become a focus for the capture of new projects. And, of course, coordinated with the Industry Council, because the Environment Council only makes it easy at competitive prices, and the Industry Council makes it easier to finance; that's to work together. It's a political action that goes by offering companies the maximum competitive facilities and advantages for them to choose and choose Galicia to materialize and develop their projects. Ladies and gentlemen, we have worked to strengthen the confidence of companies and entrepreneurs, and that is why, as I have reported and as I have indicated throughout my interventions, we have just launched a package of concrete measures aimed at achieving this goal, this challenge. New projects, new investments, creating jobs, creating wealth. This package of measures, as I said, sale of industrial soil at a bonus price, economic and competitive prices, increased financial support for business initiatives, more facilities for purchasing by simplifying payment, as well as adjuring the parcels on surface law, and more square meters of industrial soil in key places. That's why we unblocked, he unlocked this government, recently Plisán, which was blocked as a result of a totally wrong decision by the bipartisan when he broke back into his condominium. So last Thursday, at the Council of the United States, the first works were approved to equip Plisán with general systems. Yesterday in the Official Journal of Galicia 13.5 million euros for roads, lighting, driving, supply, sanitation, gas and telecommunications. It's an industrial soil platform of strategic importance. It is located in the perimeter area of Portugal, which will, of course, facilitate competition with the polygons of Portugal near the Galician border. And by the end of this year we will start the land sale procedure, so that by the end of 2016 companies can start to be installed; so we will do so and with that objective we work as I indicated, the plots will be adjusted with two modalities, sale of soil and also, for what demand, surface duty, and competitive prices. [[Applause]] Mr. Bugallo, you asked me what I'm asking. The first 100,000 square meters of Plisán will come out at a cost of 50 euros per square meter, reducing by more than half the price of the metro in similar polygons. As you see, I am, of course, convinced that we are taking fundamental steps to facilitate the sale of business soil, although I know, gentlemen, that you will not recognize it or will recognize it. But there are the facts, there are the data, there are the projects, so there are the figures and the projects. I insist that the data are there and speak for themselves. In the first quarter of 2015 we tripled the sale of industrial soil for the same period of the year 2009, which governed the bipartite. If we only take Xestur's figures into account, we didn't triple it, but we quadrupled the sale of soil that was registered in the same period in 2009. Gestur sold almost as much alone as in 2008, when the effects of the crisis did not let themselves feel so intensely. The reality is, from 1 January this year until 30 April, we have been charged more than 252,000 square meters, with an amount of 10.7 million euros of income. And the projects associated with the sale, as I said, the projects associated with the documentation presented by the companies, indicate that there is an investment, which will be mobilised in 3 years, of nearly 170 million euros and the creation of 5,600 jobs. The reality is that 63% of the 111 affected plots are affected. Mr. Bugallo, if we've helped 111 plots for almost two months, and less than a month ago 63% were written, you know perfectly well that right now we can't be in works, but we'll soon be in works. We're certainly talking about proven facts and materialized actions that encourage us, from the German Government, to continue working on this line. We will immediately activate the second phase of the Business Land Sale Plan by selling nearly 500,000 square meters in 21 business parks at the Galego de Vivenda e Solo Institute; a new measure that we hope to be able to end 2015 by exceeding the sale of industrial soil registered in any of the two-party government years. That's our goal, and I'm sure we'll get it. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the result of putting an order on a business soil policy, which I would define as chaotic, which practiced the former Executive. What we now have is the result of applying planning rather than improvisation; responsibility for uncontrolled spending on public resources; objective criteria against arbitrariness; competitive prices against unabated prices, and income. Income to further develop an effective housing policy; income for an effective housing and soil policy, instead of a debt that mortgages government action for years. That's our bet, and I think there's reason for optimism. That's why we will continue to work, we will continue to be our bet, because our goal is clear and irrevocable: to attract investments in Galicia, to strengthen productive sectors, to make our industries competitive and to be able to generate jobs and wealth. I think we're in the right direction, I have to say. If we manage to overcome this challenge, we will be strengthening our businesses, the economy, job creation and jobs in our community. Because – I insist – if we facilitate the development of new projects, we are creating new opportunities for the Greeks to find a job, because the new projects are new opportunities for the Greeks and the Greeks. For my part, that's all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u99	Thank you. We continue with point 3 of motions. G.P. motion. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da María Teresca Paz Franco and D. Francisco Jesús Jorquera Caselas, on the taxation of the pensions of returned emigrants
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u100	Amendments to this motion have been tabled by the Socialist Group and the Joint Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u101	You have the word of Mrs. Peace to formulate it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u102	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. It is not, with this motion, in this Parliament – as the People's Party seems to intend to do when the debate arises on the taxation of pensions for returned migrants and many other debates – to convert the motion, as it said, into a measure of commitment or support for returnees. Because, in fact, on many occasions, we see that commitment and support go hand in hand with the talk. And, of course, we would like you to be able to measure and verify that support and effective commitment to facts that would result in the resolution of your problems. So far, the only facts known by the People's Party on this matter are the unanimous adoption – September 11, 2013 – of a non-law proposition in this absolutely captive Parliament plenary and that we, in that debate, have already approved it as a starting point, not as a point of arrival; and therefore, as a position of minimums to begin solving the problem of returned migrants and migrants. In addition, it must be said that since then – September 11, 2013; there is therefore more than a year and a half – if they have been detecting each time new problems that have arisen to the people affected, to whom – of course – that initiative did not respond because at that time these problems have not yet been detected by the people concerned themselves. The second fact known to the People's Party regarding the problem of returned migrants was the adoption and publication, in the Official State Gazette, on November 28, 2014, of Law 26/2014, called tax reform in the Spanish State. And you're also known, of course, the two letters that have been sent to the Tax Agency since Galician Union. On the other hand, we are also familiar with other actions by the People's Party on this issue: we know dozens of initiatives that have been taken in this Parliament – presented by this group but also by other parliamentary groups – in which it was intended to be resolved, both to the partial aspects of the problem affecting returned migrants, although they were seeking deep solutions to this conflict that they maintain with the Tax Agency. In particular, for example, he voted against the People's Party of two bills to present to the Congress of Members, on behalf of this Parliament, which aimed to amend Law 35/2006; but also in the various committees and in this plenary itself he voted against numerous non-legislative proposals. All of this, in addition, endorsed as follows with numerous attempts to manipulate various members of the People's Party's Government, starting with Mrs Bañez at the Congress of Deputies, and also in this Parliament, in which we had to listen on several occasions as the Government of the People's Party has already amended Law 35/2006 to adapt it to the situation of returned migrants. And I ask: where was that law changed?, when that law changed?, where was the modification of that law published? Because, as far as we know, the only thing published in the Official Gazette of the State is Law 26/2014 which, in its unique additional provision – which is called "the regularization of tax debts corresponding to pensions arising from the foreign and with the donation of sanctions, recharges and interests liquidated by this concept" – which establishes, and also clearly, in its first subparagraph, that returned emigrants will have to tax on the IRPF tax of compliance with the applicable regulations; and does not cause any change or modification of any provision, nor article of Law 35/2006, the only thing it does is to establish an extraordinary period of six months – which goes from 1 January to 30 June 2015 – for regularization, but is consistent with the same literality as it has been so far and which follows in Law 35/2006. Therefore, a gross manipulation. That is why we are presenting today this motion in which we intend to see whether this commitment – which is always talked about here – of the Government, of this Parliament and of the People's Group with returned emigrants, we are able to see it and contrast it in concrete matters. First, the derogation from the unique additional provision of Law 26/2014 – which is the one I have just referred to – which is the one that sets a six-month deadline for all returnees who have not done so before to make their declarations corresponding to the last four years, to do so without being subject to any kind of sanction or charge of interest; therefore, indeed, an extraordinary period of regularization –and it is also established that same period for the return of sanctions, interests and charges of those who have already been subject to that regularization. But, as we have explained here in the previous plenary session, this regulation is causing real chaos, real confusion, both with regard to who the passive subjects are obliged to carry out this regularization, as with regard to the rights and real obligations of all and each of the return emigrants with very varied cases as we have in this country. The second point that we propose – and therefore we intend to know whether or not the People's Party is actually committed to the return emigrants – is that amendment of Law 35/2006 which you say you have already done but which you have not actually done. A change which clearly regulates the obligations and duties of all persons in relation to pensions received from foreigners, and which also establishes an equal and non-discriminatory tax regime for returned migrants. See, you have voted against on two occasions of the following: the current Article 963(a) of Law 35/2006 states that when it comes to taxpayers whose sole performance of the work consists of passive benefits – i.e. pensions – and the determination of the type of retention applicable if it has carried out in accordance with the special procedure which is legally established, these persons will not have to tax up to 22,000 euros, regardless of other considerations. We proposed, through a bill, adding to that article that even this applies to returned pensioners. You denied that. That would be a really effective way to achieve that equality of return emigrants, to put it literally in the law, who have the same treatment as the rest of our country's pensioners. It's a single example, you could probably write another way, but in any case, are you willing to start this way, yes or no? Set up an agile mechanism for the professional recognition of invalidities. Look, I have here a letter from the Tax Agency to a returned immigrant saying, "As for the taxation of disability pensions, it is a matter that is regulated in Article 7(f) of Law 35/2006, which applies to all types of pensions, whether they are Spanish pensions or come from outside" – i.e., exemption – but, in the following paragraph, it says that it is the taxpayer who has to believe before the tax administration that this pension from the foreigner is equivalent to an absolute disability pension or great invalidity pension. And yet no mechanisms are established, nor will we bar them, nor the criteria for the equalization of these invalids. So you're going to do your homework and set up a clear mechanism so that there won't be any returned emigrants who are being forced to pay for something in article 7 of the law...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u103	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u104	...is exempting them directly and clearly. And finally, in connection with the issue of German pensions: we insist that you are doing what you are doing, with the application you are doing of the IRPF Law, it is pouring out thousands of people returned from Germany that – according to all the judicial judgments of higher courts of justice they are leaving – do not have to pay IPRF, to tax for IRPF in the Spanish state. And the ones you're forced to tax stays leading to a dead end which is to have to pay for then have to pay again to fight against the Tax Agency.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u105	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u106	So here are four very specific proposals to prove facts – and not words – whether there really is commitment or not to returned migrants. You can vote in favour, you can vote against again, but then you don't come to blame that, when the rest of us defend the returned immigrants...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u107	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u108	...we do demagogy, because when you vote against what you do, it's leaving your obligations behind. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u109	Thank you, Mrs. Paz. Joint Parliamentary Group. Mrs. Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u110	Thank you, President. It must be bad to treat the way return emigrants are treated. We have to be ruined and have unlimited collection effort against workers and workers to say that the Spanish-German agreement of December 5, 1966, when it comes to public pensions collected in Germany – exempting them from taxation in the Spanish state – refers only to pensions for whom it was employed public. They're ruinous and clumsy to crush and crush the weakest. Something like that I said in the plenary last week and he sat down on the bench of the People's Party, and some hooligan put me -- as Curros Enríquez said -- "the one who gave me, as no one to see me." Excuse me, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, if they felt treated unjustly if I offended them. I was talking about Rajoy's ruin, Montoro's ruin, and the people who support them, support and applaud them from the institutions. If that's not the case of the Galician People's Parliamentary Group, I beg your forgiveness for having mixed them with such bad people. Maybe I'll explain it wrong or, worse, let me take you for prejudice. When we vote this motion we'll see if the outrage that you have transmitted through your voice was sincere or imposter, because I continue in the same way as in the previous plenary: I consider a ruin the spoil that is being done to the people who had to emigrate and deliver the best years of their life in other countries, in many cases leaving behind the family and, in all cases, sweating very hard the money and rights that they could accumulate to pass a quiet old age. I may have been wrong with you because I saw you looking at them elsewhere, and disturbed by the protests of the affected and opposition initiatives in the defense of returned migrants. So far, the People's Parliamentary Group has always been upset that someone defends mistreated citizens and qualifies the opposition of demagogue. But they can change and get on the side of honest workers and workers like returned migrants, but they don't tell us that it's enough for Montoro to give in and treat returned migrants as tax offenders on the Falciani list; you know it's not fair: returned migrants are neither criminals nor fraudsters, it's not fair that they're treated like Rodrigo Rato and the other 30,000 amnesty of the fiscal crime. It is true that those who felt offended by my intervention cannot be supporting and defending the law of the funnel; it cannot be that good people support and defend that the Public Fairy blood those who live from their work – workers, self-employed and pemes – and amnesty the tax offenders. The ruin isn't just who directly causes damage and suffering, who collaborates and consents is equally bad. You can't feel honored and good to accept that your party, with Mr. Nuñez Feijóo and Mr. Rajoy in the head, cheats the public estate and covers commissions or gifts. It is not honored to collaborate and protect the people's Party's dome, which paid wages in black – all but Esperanza Aguirre and Gallardón, so yesterday we heard of declaring to Mrs. Esperanza Aguirre – while the working people, from workers to small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, the common people, suffer the consequences of the crisis and the police. They cannot say that they paid in black the reform of the central headquarters of the party in Madrid, and that they had paid in black most of the election campaigns to poll themselves in the institutions – including the money coming from the Galician People's Party to the Madrid Party –. Can you feel worthy of being MPs of such a rotten party, whether PP or PPdG? The normal people when they know these things feel very ugly, maybe some – or many of you – are also victims of corruption, because corruption spreads like cancer and you've been living with the nipple for too long. But, if so, they expand and grow up as soon as they go to bed and collaborate in re-establishing the institutions. I have tabled an amendment to this motion, which I will support because I believe it is fair, simply because I am used to checking how, in this Parliament, initiatives that never go forward are adopted. So what I'm asking is that the money collected unduly is returned to the return emigrants in this fiscal year. For my part, nothing else, thank you very much, and I hope that the People's Party – for the first time since I've been in this Parliament – will support the interests of the working class and returned migrants. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u111	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. Socialist Parliamentary Group. Mrs. Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u112	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. The Socialist Parliamentary Group has tabled an amendment to add to this initiative, to Mrs Paz's motion, which we hope to support, but in any case we have already announced that, in any case, we will vote in favour of its initiative for many reasons. First, because an important part of its initiative is to reiterate that what has already been agreed in this Parliament is being met, and that the People's Party has not yet been able to comply with today: all that has to do with the negotiation that the central government had to do with the countries from which returnees come from to prevent them from being subject to double taxation, in order to avoid being charged here with taxes that have already been charged to them in their country of origin – as they are proving in the case of Germany the judicial judgments of the High Court of Justice of Galicia – that if there was political will, on the part of both the Government of the Union of Galicia, and the Central Government, they could be avoided if these people were now making a tax which they do not have to do, because they say the judgments. In any case, we are going to give the People's Party a new way out, and it is that, if they want to see their position endorsed by judicial rulings, what they have to do is – in view of all these judgments in the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia – to present – as the Central Government is personated in those judgments – an appeal for marriage before the Supreme Court to unify doctrine and thus be able to apply, to all pensioners returning to Germany, those judicial judgments and avoid having to continue making a declaration of income that they do not have to make – obviously referring to the previous year 2013–. Another two points that we have added to Mrs. Paz's motion have to do with the fact that, if the Government persists in failing to return the returned pensioners on duty to those who have already been paid on their day – and now they have to return both the interest of delay and the sanctions – at least the letters coming from the State Agency of Tax Administration to the returned immigrant pensioners, who only come to those who have the obligation to file the statement. Because, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, they are reaching absolutely all the world, with which we have thousands of returned migrants who do not have the obligation to present the declaration – because they do not reach the minimum requirements in tax legislation – going to the offices of the Tax Agency with questions, with doubts, spending their time or family time, or even making consultations with agencies that charge them, of course, for giving them that information. That could be saved and could be avoided if the State Agency of Tax Administration had only sent a letter to those immigrant pensioners – postulated that they have the data on which the income of those pensions is actually required to make the statement. The following adds that we make this motion – which is the 4th in our amendment – has to do with the commitment of the Government of Greece: a commitment that the newly arrived adviser, the councillor of Fairy, acquired from the pensioners and returned migrants platforms, precisely so that in this regularization campaign, where there are thousands of people attending the offices – and that the State Agency of Tax Administration does not provide enough attention – because, at least in those most affected districts of Galicia, workshops have been opened in the Town Councils to provide information to these people. That was a commitment that the councillor of Fairy acquired more than a month ago and that, within a month of that deadline to do this regularization, because it is still unfulfilled, with which, we fear that, when that commitment arrives to materialize – if it reaches materializes itself – it no longer serves absolutely anything. Look, this question is resolved if there's any political will. You wanted here on your day... they supported the initiative brought by the Socialist Parliamentary Group – which, of course, was an initiative that was approved because it was claimed by the returned immigrant pensioners platforms – because we understood it was a starting point for solving an unfair situation caused by a government that decided, that it decided, to make a massive and planned inspection, to the whole group of returned emigrant pensioners – of course, decided at the same time as it also decided to make a fiscal amnesty, planned as well, to forgive those...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u113	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u114	...tax criminals, who are shown today, that they should not be taxed before the Spanish farm or, at least, that they should not be taxed for what the legal obligation laid down. So, to this political decision of that government at that time, which has proved itself over the time that it was a wrong and unfair decision, you have to put a remedy on it; and not only is it put on a remedy by supporting opposition initiatives here...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u115	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u116	...is a remedy when the German Government raises its voice in front of the central government, and protests when they do things wrong. And so far, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, the truth is that you, supporting here, have supported, but to do in front of the central government beyond two letters, there is nothing else. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u117	Thank you, Mrs Gallego. Parliamentary Group of the Left Galician Alternative. Mr. Fajardo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u118	Good morning to all and to all. The truth is that some time ago someone told me that I was a sort of MP "all 100," and perhaps something of a reason I had, because there are things that one, since his ignorance, has not just understood. And some of us haven't just figured out how it might be pursued, and if you do a deep control process, pensioners returned to return money – that we are convinced that, obviously, they haven't cheated, or much less, as the People's Party defended – and, instead, that same Government is unable to do the same procedure to pursue those who cheat hundreds of millions of euros or keep accounts in Switzerland – for example, that they don't have to be others who discover the cases Naseiro, Bárcenas, Rato, Blesa, Granados, Rus, Fabra, all those cases that have to do with the People's Party–. It turns out today we discovered that the funding of the People's Party – the boxes "b", the surpluses... – even comes from 1987. Some people think that the sources of that story of Ali Baba are others, don't they? It seems that when Fairy has to pursue if he is wrong as an enemy: he pursues the workers, the honest pensioners, but instead he is unable to enter the People's Party headquarters and check how usual envelopes were in b, surpluses or irregular funding. Those are the issues that naturally concern us because they dissect people from politics and make it clear that, at best, someone has participated double-crossed in the elections and has wrongly won many elections because they have participated with money that was obviously irregular. You should therefore give explanations of those issues, yes; especially if you, who are in this House, are honest and have not participated in them, denounce what they have next to what they know was that situation. It's not going to be that you are now hailing in this House and, in a few months, you have to take your greeting, and you don't even recognize the name of someone sitting with you, like Mr. Rajoy, who suddenly forgets all those names, do you? – No more talking about Mouse, say "that lord"; no more talking about Grenades, say "the other one." And so that's a risk that you have and, honestly, if you know any of these bigger cases, it would be good if you said it. And we say it because it's unfair that, while these issues are being agreed upon, the pensioners returned if they had been obliged and persecuted, and the fact of living an undesirable situation for honest people, that what they went to work and bring money so that this country could get out of the situation in which it was many years ago. It turns out these people have not only been persecuted, but are being intimidated, they continue to be intimidated. Those tens of thousands of letters that arrived at these returned pensioners are intimidating letters. I'm sure that kind of language you used with pensioners didn't use it with Mr. Mouse. Well, those are the issues that need to be changed. But, above all, we are going to support the proposal put on the table today, because it is absolutely clear that this extraordinary period of regularization must be eliminated, that we cannot continue with a tax regime with these pensioners who are discriminatory with respect to other pensioners, because it is necessary to recognize the invalids which are recognised in other countries – and therefore someone who has the disability recognized in another place in Europe should not be recognized at this time – or, for example, those who, having an invalidity pension elsewhere in Europe, so they pay when, if they are outside the Spanish State, they would not have to pay tribute. We believe that what is asked is fair, but we believe that it should go further: if what is asked is fair, if we all do not understand why this persecution mania has been used towards those below, what should be clarified is how it is not possible, not only that the amounts collected are returned automatically, but that no compensation mechanisms are studied for the prejudices suffered. We all know pensioners who worsened their diseases after being persecuted by Fatenda, we all know the painful and regrettable situation that many families had to stop having money for basic issues or to care for their unemployed children, to pay for the unfair fines of Fatenda. Aren't you going to do anything about that injustice? Won't the prejudices caused by a farm that pursues those below be compensated as it is capable of allowing and saying that everything is expired when it comes to irregular funding from the People's Party? Well, that's what we think needs to be changed. So, from the Glaga Alternative, we are going to support the Galego Nationalist Block initiative and we regret that, in this country, the Fairy has two yards to measure: a magnifying for workers and pensioners and, of course, a vision of far away for those who are irregularly funded. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u119	Thank you, Mr. Fajardo. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs Pouso.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u120	Good morning, gentlemen. Well, once again we're in this House debating the motion that stems from the interpellation that we're dealing with last week's plenary session on the income tax for the natural persons of returned migrants. Well, we hear here, in the various interventions by various spokesmen of the opposition groups, all sorts of accusations: that nothing was done, that the agreement adopted in September 2013 was a small agreement... Mrs. Peace, I believe that if it has been done, and it has been done a lot in favour of this collective. That there may still be fleas left pending to fix, and that we are working to conquer it, totally agree; but, of course, you must recognize that it has been done. And if it has been done, Mrs. Peace, because we have succeeded in putting returned migrants who have not fulfilled their tax obligations in a situation of non-fraudors – which is what we all demanded in this House – and therefore that they should be given the opportunity to regulate their tax situation without having to face any penalties, fines, or interest. And so I think it's important that we reach that agreement. And we also managed, that we would ask in this House, to expand the payment fractions, to take account of the family and personal situation of each person affected by this problem. And we all know in this House – we all know, Your Honor – that, indeed, by the Tax Agency if they are taking these circumstances into account and are granting such approvals. Well, I think you were criticizing here that the People's Party has stood against some propositions put forward by the opposition. Mrs. Peace, I told you in the past Full that where you will never find us the People's Party is in those proposals that advocate unequal tax treatment. In the face of similar situations, we argue that there must be equal tax treatment. So we're going to match at several points of your motion and specifically at point number 3, and point number 4. In paragraph 3, which refers to the recognition of disability pensions, which recognise these reductions to pensioners and returnees, on their own initiative by the corresponding body of the Spanish State, so that they can effectively benefit from the tax benefits of pensioners who receive their pensions from Spanish bodies. Because it seems to us that it is of justice and that it must be. He explained last week to the councillor of Fairy, who was here, that there had already been management since the Government of Galician Union with the state competent body for that recognition to be carried out and if they had made things easier for these affected in connection with this point. And he also told the councillor last week, and our group is fully in line with that criterion emanating from the judgments of the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia, that these judgments, indeed, do not feel jurisprudence, but if you have been addressed to the State Agency of Tax Administration for them to be taken into account, so that they adopt that criterion and so that, say, they do not tax people who within this Spanish-German agreement, which has been signed since 1968, have no obligation to tax them. You see, we are not going to support point 1, Mrs. Paz, in so far as you are asking for that additional provision of Law 26/2014 to be repealed. That provision was precisely to what made it possible for it not to be applied as sanctions or interests... not to apply the fraud criterion to this whole collective, recognizing, indeed, that there was a lack of information or a lack of knowledge of tax regulations. And at the same time, in that provision, it is also settled that condemnation of interests, sanctions and charges and, therefore, Mrs. Paz, you will understand that you take steps with all this collective and put them in a position for those who already have payments, who cannot recover them, of course, that we would do him little favor. I believe that if you want to work in a positive way for these returned migrants, we will find ourselves there, of course, according to those points where we are never completely discriminated against anyone and, therefore, we are able to reach an agreement and that is why we are going to ask you to vote on your motion by points. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u121	Thank you, Mrs. Pouso. Author group of the motion, Mrs. Paz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u122	Thank you, President. In fact, we already recognize in the previous intervention that, indeed, the only thing the People's Party did, pressed by social mobilization and social pressure, was to recognize that returned migrants were not fraudulent. Yes, from Mrs Pouso Maneiro's intervention it always turns out that, well, they weren't fraudsters but didn't fulfill their tax obligations, with a certain drop of accusation. Look, Mrs Pouso Maneiro, tell you that the Tax Agency is granting approvals on the basis of personal and economic conditions to returned migrants, but they will all agree with me and all in my opinion that these arrangements are prior to establishing interest of delay. So nothing other than what is done with other contributors. In relation to situations, you insist very much that you defend that for the same situations, the same tax treatment. I insist, if article 96.3(a)2 of Law 35/2006 states that pensioners who are not returned have a limit of 22,000 euros per year to make the income statement, why can't we extend this to returned migrants, what do we propose in our initiative? We therefore believe that this would be the way to ensure that, in fact, identical situations have the same tax treatment. As regards the derogation from Law 26/2014, this would of course have to be in line with the amendment to Law 35/2006 because we consider that if it is not previously amended by Law 35/2006 in the aspects that are set forth in this initiative – which are strictly and clearly what are the tax obligations and duties of all taxpayers, including returned migrants, and to establish an identical tax regime for all citizens – it makes no sense to establish a period of regularization if these parameters are not previously clearly established. With regard to the amendments tabled, the amendment tabled by the Joint Group is accepted because we believe that it is also important to correct an important axis of the motion tabled by this parliamentary group, since it sets deadlines for the implementation of these measures proposed in the motion and therefore we believe it is important not to leave the time in which this initiative should be met. With regard to the Socialist Group, we accept the amendment to addendum referred to in paragraphs 4a and 4b and we would not accept the appeal for marriage, because we believe that the People's Party or the Government of the State could find out that it has to wait for that appeal to be settled to begin to apply what the judgments of the higher courts of justice set out to exempt returned migrants from payment from Germany. Given that the current delay in the resolution of...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u123	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u124	...married appeals, according to the last memory of the General Council of the Judiciary, around 24 months, we believe it's an excessive delay and so we don't accept that point. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u125	Thank you, Mrs. Paz. We'll stop the session until 16.15.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u126	Let's restart the session. G.P. motion. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of D. Pablo García García, on the policy developed by the Galician Union in relation to the forest sector
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u127	This motion was presented with an amendment from the Joint Group and an amendment from the Parliamentary Group on the Nationalist Block in Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u128	You have the floor, to formulate your motion, Mr. Pablo García, of the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u129	Thank you, President. Good afternoon to all and to all. This motion is a consequence or continuation of what we have already discussed the other day, therefore, I will try not to repeat myself, but it is inevitable to refer to the philosophy of the interpellation that we made last week, which was precisely that amendment to the whole that the forest industry, the industry that in theory the advisor and the president, in addition, always appoint as strategic, as one of the values to be raised by this country, had made it to the forest policy developed by this councillor and this government not only in recent years, and that it also came to be reflected in these measures, and as they denounced, in the elaboration of the next RDP, where somehow all those mistakes and all those evidences that this policy had been consolidated, black on white, in the reproduction of that Rural Development Plan. Indeed, if we go to the data, and we all have, which even the associations themselves have passed us, it is obvious that in recent years we have a problem. I know that, just as the advisor put forward the other day, if she was here, then I'd throw the data into the head of the fact that we're still leading the forest sector in Galicia. Man, we could get there! I mean, that with the wooded surface we have, we won't lead the sector!, then it would be... we have to make a lot of effort, and I think that not even this government, not even this advisor, even though he tries it day by day, will succeed. But, indeed, if we look at the often further, if we don't stay, as the Government does, with the above data, the volume and the large figures, which, indeed, the sector is still very important and its weight at the state level is obvious, if we see that there is a decrease in recent times, there is data that leads us to think that, undoubtedly, there is a problem, that there is a problem. If we talk about the value of timber exports, it's about 5% in the average of Spain and in Galicia about just 0.4%! Of course, if we go to absolute, indeed! Does Galicia continue to lead timber exports? Obviously. But it's obvious, with that data, that we're going through... or that at least we have a problem. If we talk after concrete exports, such as the furniture sector, while in Spain about almost 6%, about 5.9%, in Galicia not only does it not rise, but it goes down only in the last year. And, therefore, it is also another significant fact that we actually have a problem. And that was what he was trying to tell him, with little success, the sector, which told him last year, that he told him in the middle of the year, and that a few months ago, we said, more loudly, just as loudly, since the measures they claimed and the problems they reported were still the same, but that somehow it became more public and more obvious with that –in–break of relations –we said – of the dialogue established with their own counsel would be clearly incapable of reaching absolutely any agreement. What were they asking? That's what we're trying to move in the motion that we're presenting today and that we're also sketching the other day. Those four or five things that, in some way, they think they're interrupting or they're making it difficult, that they're also responsible for counseling and self-government, and that the Government is giving it no solution. These are those four or five things we moved on this motion. Indeed, there is a subject of bureaucracy, there is a topic of cutting permits, which makes it extremely difficult in many areas to develop activity, where each municipality or every forest district somehow has a regulation or has requirements that are not approved in the country. Indeed, that would be overcome by the approval of the Mountain Law, but, after so many years that the Mountain Law was approved, we continued to have this series of problems. Depending on the municipalities, I was teaching a map the other day, and in that map it is clearly visualized that in those municipalities where there is an important forest activity, there are still those kinds of traps. We were talking, for the sake of not stopping, because they are the same ones we listed last week, about the problem caused in the south, above all, of the province of Pontevedra, with the theme of nematode, of that plague. So we haven't been able to do activity there for years. It's been those four years that Europe, in theory, was advising us, and the experts were advising us on that prohibition. It is true that the sector itself is the first to say that if this is not so, if we somehow have to follow in that situation to establish more guarantees for that wood, to do so, but, in any case, the sector what you want to have is clarity, and you would also have to establish some kind of compensation, or in some way to rally those industries that live almost exclusively, that are rooted in these areas, and that their activity is directly diminished, when besides a year ago it was told that there was only one year left. I repeat, and I would like to make it clear that no one is arguing that the sector is the most interested in preserving the eradication of that plague, that disease. But what's going to have to be there is some kind of conversation to try to find some solution that might help to those prejudices. We talked – I repeat – about a lot of things, and I made an impact – and I want to end it because it seems to me the most important, it seems to me the main –... we also talked about the elaboration of the RDP and how it was, and I'm not going to affect it, we've already discussed it here because it wasn't only in the forest sector, but it was in absolutely every sector. And where they made the most impact was the erratic policy of extinction and fire prevention that this government is carrying out. We were talking, and they were clearly saying something that we've been saying here for a long time, that we keep spending a lot more money on extinguishing the fire, a lot more money on extinguishing the fire, than on managing, planning and adjusting our mountains to avoid it. And what they came to say to him and what they came to make manifest was that this came to be like this, but that not only had it not been corrected, but it was going to be accentuated, or everything seemed to be accentuated, since it was already established so at the PDR, which was that for us – we have denounced it many times – great fallacy that is to consider prevention of municipal brigades. To continue spending European funds devoted to prevention I repeat once again that we do not forget that European funds cannot be spent on extinction, European funds that we should spend on planning and prevention, on municipal brigades. That's the four or five points we pick up on that motion. I think it's a motion that is ultimately not made with the courage - let's say - of being too belligerent. It's the worries that the sector, the whole sector, was handed over a year and a half ago to the advisor, who then handed the industrial sector back to him. And as I said the other day, I think it is somewhat unusual for a counselor to agree, even if it is against his policy, all the work and all the Slavonics in the forest sector chain, from the producers, from the owners, from the landowners, from the landowners, from absolutely all aspects that have openly criticized and denounced that lack of dialogue, that lack of dialogue, that lack of planning and that lack of any kind of political initiative for a sector that is worth the only – and that is perhaps the most outrage – is that every time the president of this government speaks, it seems to him that it is very important, that it is one of the sectors to which he is devoted most attention, sometimes the industrial adviser also names...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u130	Finish it, Mr. Garcia, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u131	...but you see that later, in practice, in everyday life, what they are at the most absolute abandonment by this board of Galicia, like many others. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u132	Thank you very much. Intervention of parliamentary groups. Joint Group. Mrs. Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u133	Thank you, President. Good afternoon to all and to all. On the occasion of the interpellation of last week's plenary session, I've already said that in general lines I agree with the authors' concerns, and logically I also agree with this motion that concretely engages the interpellation on proposals. To demand that the Union recover the dialogue and listen to the sector, as it incorporates reasonable demands both in the amendment of the RDP and in all regulations affecting the forest sector. Simplify the policy for obtaining short permissions. Set compensations for those affected by the restrictions resulting from the pineapple plague and reconsider firefighting policy. I think all the measures that deserve my approval. As far as cutting permissions are concerned, I think it is necessary to enter a precision, which, although it may be overcomprehensible, does not remain explicit. That's why I filed a request for addition so that it would be clear the need for regulatory simplification not to diminish the protection of protected species or spaces, nor public goods such as roads or roads. The Group of the People's Party that supports the Government of the United Nations is sure to oppose this motion, because we have already seen that they are delighted with the ability of dialogue of the advisor, and will not allow anything to be successful that calls into question the great accomplishments of the Government Feijóo. They will continue to rule from back to back all, except for their own personal interests of party or big business, which is the one they owe. The discontent of the forest sector, the problems of the forest sector, they don't care much. If they can do anything without changing politics, they will, because we're in the election year. The crisis in the forest sector concerns them as little as the rejections or the suffering of the sick people who leave without medicine. As I said in the interpellation, the branches of activity that integrate the forest productive complex are decreasing from the start of the crisis at an average rate of 7.9%, compared to 1.2% of the total economy. The joint invoicing of the wood processing industry in Galicia exceeds 1,600 million euros annually. The main chain of transformation of wood is, according to the IGE, around 2% of the Greek economy if we speak of added value, while in terms of employment this weight is 2.3% of the total, and of industrial employment of 12.3%. They don't care either, nor do they care that the forest-based industry represents more than 30% of industrial establishments. The little or nothing they care about is reflected in the degree of execution in productive investment on the mountain: 40% of the forecast in the already wise budgets devoted to the productive economy. The rational exploitation of the mountain will bring wealth to our country and industry and population to the rural environment. Although I have no confidence, I must reiterate my request for dialogue with the Government. But really dialogue, exercising active listening, avoiding any predisposition to disagree. With the aim of achieving a national agreement on forest policy in which all stakeholders are involved: councils, agricultural organizations, employers, trade unions, environmental organisations and Galician Parliament itself; an agreement with concrete and measurable objectives and with institutional and budgetary support, which promotes the closure of the productive cycle of wood in Galicia, from the furniture sector to paper. But surely we will continue to contemplate the inability of the People's Party to dialogue in and out of this House; an inability to dialogue that threatens not only the creation of a powerful industry dependent on our mountains, but also a total inability to dialogue and agree to ensure firefighting services that really engage in firefighting regardless of a fire prevention service, indispensable in our country. Because in Galicia, if there's more fires, it's not because we're more incendiary, it's about policies that are taken, forest policies, preventive policies that don't apply in our country, which, in addition to creating jobs, would also generate wealth in our mountains and we would gain in biodiversity. We will certainly continue without being able to dialogue with the People's Party, not because the opposition, trade unions and agricultural and business associations do not know, but because we have a government unable to hear. And if they ever wake up, they don't do it. I remind them of what the Confessor publicly said: "The German Government always fails to do so." This is your model of government, this is your concern for the people and the economy of our country.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u134	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u135	All we have to do is affirm our support for this motion.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u136	Thank you. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. Mrs. Paz Franco.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u137	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. In the previous plenary session, I think we have data in the interpellation that believed two fundamental issues. One, that in Galicia, depending on the data we are having, both from the comparison of the volume of billing that represents our wood sector in relation to the state, and from the evolution of the sector itself since the year 2008, we have an absolutely erratic forest model. And second, that our mountain, our ability to generate wealth from the mountain we have, far exceeds the 1,699 million euros of billing in 2013, and even I would dare to say that this potential also exceeds the 2,400 million euros of billing in 2008, but to that end we need to reconsider some aspects of the forestry policy of the Government of Galician Union, and in that sense the amendments presented by the Parliamentary Group of the Galician Nationalist Block to this motion: to develop certain aspects that, although they appear collected as inspiring principles of the Mountain Law, we believe that this is not the value that is being given to them in the application of forest policy. First of all, I think we have to remember some magnitudes. Galicia, 3 million acres of territory, we have something more than 2 million acres of mountains, of which 1,400,000 are trees and about 600,000 acres are low or not wooded, which I think should bring us to the first conclusion. We have forest space or more than enough to continue to extend the other parts of our territory to forestry, so we believe that there is a clear starting position. We don't need to see more land to make our forest land more productive, but we just need to have a more appropriate policy. Second relevant data has to do with our motion. In Galicia, in recent years, there has been a retreat of more than 400,000 hectares in the conifers, and an advance of more than 200,900 hectares in the eucalyptus in the same period. It should also make us reflect, the content of the data we gave the other day on how it is decreasing the capacity for generating jobs in Galicia, about the fate of the eucalyptus, which essentially goes to the paper folder; if that has to continue to be the only productive orientation of our mountain. Another data. In Galicia there is surface, under forest management management figures, only 10%, approximately 200,000 hectares, of which 170,000 are consortiad or agreed mountains. The Galician Union is about to get rid of all the conventions and consortia it currently has with lots of private people, mainly with neighbors in common hands, when it's a figure that proves it's the only one that has so far provided adequate forest management. The same could be said of the certified surface, which represents only 8% of the mountain and which in recent years has not evolved by one centimeter. With regard to the uses of the mountain – and from there our amendment to multifunctional use – there are currently 193 million cubic metres of wood in Galicia. I'm going to give you another data so you can understand the magnitude of this number. Every year we cut in Galicia between 7 and 8 million tons of wood; that is, we have an impressive amount of wood on the mountain that, surely, we are not able to put on the market precisely because it's not planned...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u138	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u139	... depending on the productive orientations and market needs, and we keep planting, we keep planting. That's why we have two clear amendments. One, which supports all multifunctional exploitation projects, because the mountain has many other uses that could generate a lot of wealth and a lot of added value beyond the strictly woodland; and orientating the new Forest Plan to which it is valued is 193 million tons of wood that we already have in the mountain and are no longer foresting more agricultural surfaces; and even that those agricultural areas that have been concentrated and that are currently being used to plant eucalyptus, because this country does not have a problem of quantity of mountain, has a problem with the quality of forest plantations. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u140	Thank you very much, Mrs. Paz. Parliamentary Group of the Left Galician Alternative. You have the word of Mr. Anton Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u141	Good afternoon. We are going to support this motion because we believe that it is talked about by some of the important issues that must be addressed in this country in order to necessarily change the model. The first thing we have to do is say clearly what mountain model we want for Galicia, because we believe that proper management of the mountain, from an integral perspective and not just forest, is not just a matter of pendant that this country has, but it's urgent to do it. This mountain management is very much related to the management of the territory, to the occupation of the territory, but also to making a proper analysis of the role of the mountain, its functions, its economic importance. But facts and data show that the People's Party bets on a forest model based on the monoculture of fast growing species, low added value, which creates little employment; the example is eucalyptus for paper pulp. If the People's Party recognizes that this is its model, we'll applaud it because it's doing it well, the data confirms it. This is the model after thirty years of the People's Party's Government: it is simply encouraging the forest monoculture with the object of transferring a piece of wealth, integrated into the territory, socially equitable, towards a wealth for monopoly, where different sectors of forest transformation – paper pulp and boards mainly – dominate the market and impose prices and conditions. Galicia, as already mentioned here, has the two-thirds of its surface as a forest, but if we analyze more vague data -- it's not boring, many have already been said -- we see that the forested surface treated forestly oscillates between 30% and 40% of Galicia's surface; another such a percentage is killed or wilted spontaneously and probably abandoned. Forest production outside the mountain amounts to approximately EUR 400-450 million. Almost two thirds of this production is devoted to export. We are therefore faced with a sector that claims that it is a raw material extractor that is not transformed into an export destination, showing the dependence of our economy, unable to generate productions centered in the country that give rise to export, yes, but of products made with greater added value. The added value generation data on the forest surface is also well indicative, since the agrarian surface, which means one third of the forest surface, generates 1,300 million euros of added value, 1.3 euros per hectare. Instead of the forest surface, if we reduce the costs of extinguishing fires, it does not reach EUR 0.30 per hectare. We know that farming will always have higher added value than the forest surface, but comparatively they are quite poor data in added value of our mountain. The same could be said of job creation. Of course, many jobs are created in 2 million acres of surface, but many more could be created with another mountain management model. This doesn't mean to make a counterposition between farming and forestry, they both have room in this country, but that's right, with a proper management and an approach to ensure that the forest sector moves towards creating more added value and more employment, which requires a lot in our rural to fix population; therefore, the goal cannot be to increase the surface, but to improve quality. In addition, given that in this country it is being diagnosed as a fundamental issue the improvement of the property structure, it would not be too much for the People's Party to make an honest balance of the outcome of the improvement policies of the mountain property structure, because almost in thirty years it has changed nothing, in which case the structure of the mountain property has worsened. And since you ate the Sofors to solve that problem, what's the balance? I haven't heard of self-criticism on the part of the People's Party, even though only two were created and it means 0.05% of the entire surface in six years, or 4, it doesn't matter to me. You, in less than four years, criticized Uxfor...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u142	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u143	...because they were not constituted. So self-criticism will have to be done, and corrective action will have to be taken to change this issue. Just as the percentage spent on the extinction of fires, as the Galician Forest Plan says, should be reduced in favour of preventive policies. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u144	Thank you very much, Mr. Sanchez. People's Group. Mr. Balsairo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u145	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Mr García, you present today a motion with five points, and now entering the points of the motion that you present, we from the People's Parliamentary Group cannot support and talk about neglect and lack of participation in the sector as you speak about the points you are presenting. I'd tell you that it's impossible to support that argument today, it's impossible. The Union has promoted everyone's participation, without exception. In addition, the sector is represented both at the Forest Council and at the Wood Bureau, and until now, without exception, all the abundant legislation adopted has been involved and has been consulted by the sector. Even Mr. García, one of the most ambitious projects, such as the review of the Forest Plan, counts on guidance and guidelines that mark the working group of the Forest Council, which have the possibility and also have the duty to incorporate their demands. The question is very simple, the question is, how does it make sense that you claim in your motion what is already being done and that it takes time to do so? You also ask, in your motion, to reflect on the figure of the Sofors, we think associationism in the sector is positive; the law itself – both Greek and state – of the mountains insists on encouraging it. We have examples – you have to talk about a region that I know well – for example, in the Lugo Navy, with the good functioning of the associations of municipal producers – for example, in the Town Councils of Foz, Viveiro and there is one more, which even negotiate directly with ENCE in very advantageous conditions for these owners. But I insist again, Mr. Garcia, don't ask us what we're already doing because it's wasting time. Right now we could be debating another initiative here that was necessary and you come to debate a motion here that is already being made. I say it is already being done because since Decree 45/2011 the Sofors have benefited from the exemption on sales and parcel exchanges, also from inheritance taxes and we have also put an end to the tax disadvantage. And it is true that you have explained it to the Counsellor in the past speech in this Parliament, in the last interpellation, that there are now two but six others have asked for help. Ask you to reconsider the forest brigades. Okay. We, of course, defend – I know the fight against fire is totally different from the one you have led – that the fight against fires works. Look how much it works for the municipal brigades to ask for all mayors. Why don't you ask the mayors of the Socialist Party to ask for municipal brigades whether or not they're working? Because they're asking for them. Or the few who have the Galician Nationalist Block. Don't ask the AGE people because AGE doesn't have them to ask them. But then, after all, you can ask them both those of the Galician Nationalist Block and those of the Socialist Party... ask them! But besides this model... No, no, listen. [[Murmurs.]] It's just that this model also worked out... you know what it did? The best figures in the historical series in decades, year by year, as to the number of fires and as to the burnt surface. Those are the policies that you applied when Galicia burned down on the four sides and they didn't know what to do, and the policies that the People's Government applies. [[Applause]] [[Murmurs.]] And you ask me to bet on the regulatory simplification. Home!, at least, it was this government – you will recognize that it was this government – who approved rules in the Management and Management Decree that introduce administrative facilities, which replace the authorization for simple notification to perform various tasks in ordered mountains, which include economic and tax benefits for owners, exemption from VAT and exemption from the IRPF from aid received. And today Junta – I don't know if you know it – already works as a single carrier, which simplifies the procedures. And we ask ourselves, what sectoral reports do you want to avoid? Do you want to exclude two sectoral wealth reports? Do you want to exclude sectoral reports of discharges? Do you want to exclude sectoral aquifer reports? [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u146	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u147	Which one do you want to spare? Which is why, Socialist Party gentlemen, the Galician Nationalist Bloc and AGE gentlemen, we have a completely different policy than you had in the German Mountain on the Fire Plan. We'd just have had the ones you had! [[Murmurs.]] We have it different, it's normal we don't agree.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u148	Thank you very much, Mr. Balsairo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u149	Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u150	Motion author group. You have the floor, Mr. Garcia. From the bench, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u151	Thank you, President. Go ahead and accept the amendment presented by the Nationalist Block Galego because it's not at all contradictory to our motion; it goes further and we fully agree. It is true that our motion was the one that presented the sector. [[Murmurs.]] I just shaped everything that the sector told the advisor that he was doing wrong. Not that the Socialist Party had told him, that he didn't even add or pull out, but that the whole sector told the advisor that he was hurting him. So, Mr. Balsairo, I don't say it, say it all over the sector, I repeat it's something historic. I was saying the other day that agreeing with three in this country is very difficult; if those three are representatives of collectives, impossible; and if they are still above them representatives of the collectives where they are producers, industrialists, processors and traders, and everyone agrees that they are doing it wrong, because only you, Mr. Balsairo, but the advisor says it's a lie. In any case, it's the sector that says this, so I'm not talking, it's the sector. The whole sector told the board that he was doing it wrong, and these claims that the sector is making are the ones that moved on this motion. Don't say they're ours, even if the Socialist Party does. Mr. Balsairo, there are actually two Sofors, one in my people, I think that in so many years it's not bad; I mean, I think it's quite obvious that it's a figure that doesn't work. After six-seven years saying that the Sofors are the only channel we have to make forestry associations in this country, and that there are two workings, because I think it says it for itself. Mr. Balsairo, you are free to defend the municipal brigades, nobody says otherwise, but the whole sector too – as we say and as the opposition said – and what they consider to be spending 16 million a year on municipal brigades – 16 million euros every year on municipal brigades! – and selling that money goes to the detriment of other funds to plan and order our mount, is what no one agrees with. And our mayors, logically, fulfill the vigorous legislation, which is what you put in place, what are you going to do? Ours and all of us, they don't have another way out, what are they going to do? You've disassembled, disassembled and insist on dismantling the existing fire protection service for the municipal brigades, there's no other remedy left, but that doesn't mean they're in agreement with the model. Of course, we don't agree with the model. We say it here on numerous occasions and also the whole sector says it; therefore, it's not our thing. Look, I repeat: the Counsellor will note that the entire forest sector unanimously disagrees with her policy. I don't know if you've changed anything this past week...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u152	Thank you, Mr. García.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u153	...but as far as I'm told, Mr. Balsairo, they're still exactly the same as they were a year and a half ago, and this was sent in writing – it's public – to the Counsellor, saying they needed this...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u154	Thank you very much, Mr. García. Time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u155	...without getting an answer so far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u156	Mr. Garcia, the amendment of the Joint Group? No, he didn't talk about the Joint Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u157	I'll tell you later, President. G.P. motion. of the Alternative Galaga de Left, at the initiative of Da Eva Solla Fernández, on the beds closed during the summer of 2014 in the hospitals of Sergas and the coverage of staff vacations
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u158	This motion was amended by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u159	To formulate the motion, you have the word Mrs. Eva Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u160	Thank you, President. The full past we have asked Mrs. Health Counsellor in the hope that she would exercise as such, that at some point she had decided to take over her duties and to respond in the House as required by the Galician Self-Government Statute; to satisfy the request for information from Parliamentarians and Members of the House as regards the Rules of Procedure; to take into account what their management is in front of the council. But none of this happened. It is intolerable that the refusal continues to facilitate the requested data, to answer the asked questions, to justify with requested data management at an interpellation. It is intolerable that they continue to refuse to answer or answer anything else; it is intolerable because what denotes is pure arrogance. Believes the Madam Health Counsellor that the members of the council are above us, above the workers and health workers and also above the Greeks and Greeks; that they may be allowed not to answer in the Chamber because they are the Government and therefore do what they want. That's their conception of democracy, the mere sense of right to vote and then absolutely nothing; then check blank for four years. In the face of its misinformation and opacity, we continue to defend transparency, asking for data from its management and making proposals. For the second time we have already defended in this House a motion in which we ask that waiting lists be heard in the Galician Health Service to know reality, to know how many people there are actually waiting on those lists; to unravel those hidden lists that Mr. Feijóo denounced when he was opposed and which does not facilitate when he is Government. We want to know how many people are waiting to be operated; how many people wait for consultations; for second specialized care consultations; how long they've been taking and how long it takes people to be able to perform the tests they're asked to do. We ask for third time the data on transfers from public centres to private centres. Previously they refused to report. In the past full, Mrs. Mosquera had the courage to say that there is no occupation in all the beds of the Galician Health Service and that that is why they can close them. However, he did not explain how that occupation was calculated either. He didn't explain how it might be that if she maintained that they weren't occupied 100 percent of the beds, there continued to be endless surgical waiting lists. He didn't explain how it might be that the Board defends that it doesn't handle 100 percent of the beds and that, at the same time, collapses are routinely introduced in emergencies motivated in many cases also by the lack of beds itself. He didn't explain how Health can say he doesn't take care of 100 percent of the beds and that at the same time he continues to transfer to private centers. That's why we ask, and we also ask this motion, to transfer information on these transfers, the number of transfers. They still don't answer about the number of staff in the different categories, in each management area, which enjoys summer vacations, and how many are covered. Today we request – I propose that the data be transferred – for the fourth time this same information. Fourth time, it's a scandal! The People's Party does not want to provide information perhaps because the lack of coverage of vacations would indicate the extent to which public health is being undermined and therefore prefer to hide that information. We also request in this motion the data on the number of closed beds, which will be closed in each public hospital for the next few months and the criteria that follow for that closure. Last year – according to Mrs Mosquera in the past full – 14% of the beds were closed. A barbarity, an obscenity, that this lady might come here to presume this management, a management of economic criteria! As the highest public health officer in our country can say that keeping all beds open in summer is a waste? That's what he said in the past. How can there be so much lack of ethics and aptitude for the management of a public service as this person does? How can you transfer that it is a luxury to have your beds open when there are waiting lists and when there are collapses also in the summer months? Ladies and gentlemen, it seems that in Galicia we are sick above our possibilities. They're not ashamed of anything! Neither shame nor any kind of management plan. That strategy goes on to decide that close of beds, if it's on a different service every year, we don't know that. If Mrs Mosquera herself was able to defend in the full past one thing and the opposite. First he said that hospitalisation units -- that is, services -- were closed for a few minutes after saying that the services were not closed, the entire units were closed. What are we left with? They have no idea how to manage public health. We demand to know also – as I said – how the occupation of beds is calculated. And, of course, the sixth point of the motion proposes: We demand that we avoid that closure of beds by replacing the staff. It is not to be received that during the summer, when there are also collapses, that while waiting lists persist if they can afford luxury – that is indeed a luxury! – of closing beds saying it is a waste. We call for these recruitment data to be public, and for it to be stated that, in the event that certain professional specialists, very specialized, cannot be covered because of this necessary specialization, it remains public and notorious. Because what is done – he did in the past full – is always using the excuse that there are professionals who cannot be replaced. The problem is, when asked which and how many, they never give the data because it's not true. These professionals are a minority of all healthcare professionals, and it's easier to use them as an excuse to realize that you really can't replace health workers, when the reality is that there are many unemployed people who want to work on our health care and cannot. In the end, what they don't want is that people can know reality, because reality is that they're ending up with public health. How is it possible that a gentleman who represents the interests of a private lobby like Sedisa, who defends the implementation of the private company within the public health system – openly, I did not invent it – can now be the new director of health care of the Galician Health Service? It's a shame! How could the advisor himself, and the rest of the money from that health council, who, in theory, should defend public health, participate in the activities of that private lobby? What's the explanation? How can a position of the health council participate tomorrow even in Barcelona with AEO, an association, a lobby, which defends the interests of large companies and holding companies as can be the English Court itself, which also manages information related to health, how can it be Alcampo, how can it be Mercadona, how can it be a lot of private companies? What does that gentleman, that health officer, that high office of the Health Council, with these companies, when it comes to, oh, chance!, who is responsible for Innova Saúde and Hospital 2050. That is, the innovation that is being fully privatized. I mean, we're transferring a public property policy to private companies, and here it's done without any kind of problem; that's to say, publicly. Of course, of course, as most of the Galicians and Greeks do not understand themselves, unfortunately, because this is not advertised to bombo and plate, like other kinds of things, that these people participate in business lobbying and lobbying for the privatization of health, because this obviously does not move to public opinion. This is what it is. It's the ease, the ease of the turn door, the privatizations and the spoils of the public heritage. I said it in the full past, that the advisor is essential collaborator for that public heritage spolie, and today we are becoming more and more clear. So today, for the last time, we are requesting information from the Health Council, this time from a motion. Data that should be public, that we shouldn't even have to ask them for a fourth, a fifth or a sixth time here. Data that we understand that what they're going to do is confirm this depatrimonialization of the Galego Health Service and therefore the policy of the public heritage. We understand that precisely, as it is, that's why they never want to provide that data. You'll see what they do today. We'll pay attention to their positions, but we understand that, once again, they will vote against giving the Galicians and the Greeks the information they have right to.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u161	Intervention of parliamentary groups. Socialist Group. Mrs. Acuña do Campo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u162	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies. During the past interrogation, from our group we asked the advisor neither resigned nor stopped – and I have to say that with very little result – the number of beds he closed during the summer. We also asked him about the number of beds he left unopened for the rest of the year. We asked him how much he had saved with that measure and what he had given those saved money. We asked him how he would activate those closed beds, if he didn't have the medical staff, and how he could act to activate health professionals who were desperate, desperate, and, above all, well-trained, emigrated to Germany, to the United Kingdom or anywhere else in the world. We also asked the advisor neither dismissed nor stopped about the impact that massive, generalized and maintained closures in time had on emergency services, collapsed as well. I mean, collapsed massively all of them; i.e., generalized and, besides, collapsed all the time. We also asked him about the impact the closures would have on the health wait. I wonder how you can speak to that lady about efficiently managing the Public Health System when she closes the beds for more than four months with the excuse that there is less surgical activity, while at the same time she has the waiting lists completely overflowed. You could, in good logic, take advantage of the fact that infectious diseases come down to solve or to improve a little while waiting for health care. But, above all, we asked him and we wondered if the closures were to undermine the public and increase privatization, because once, ladies and gentlemen, approved the Health Insurance Act, in autumn, around the closures, Mr. Feijóo, by applying that Guarantee Law, can catch and directly dump the public health system in private; that is, it can entirely derive from the private with the excuse that the deadlines for law are not met. We also ask him about the deterioration that the freest media, those who are less attached to the regime – which I have to say is very few – collect with titles like this: Galicia, a diseased health of friendship. Ladies and gentlemen, we lead the lists of health privatizations. We privatize hospitals, technology, radiology, laboratory, that is, absolutely everything, while the advisor justifies everything by word modernizing. But it's not modernizing, ladies and gentlemen, it's privatizing. And the use of the foundations, the heads of service and the charges of the public health system for husbands, sisters, cousins, and family and friends of Mr. Feijóo and Mrs. Counsellor is not modernizing, it is nepotism. And to prevent the criticisms that the Bioethics Commission makes in the face of the loss of universality, and the change of health model is not modernizing, is censoring. Ladies and gentlemen, from the Socialist Parliamentary Group we will support this motion which we are allowed to amend. Let's hope our amendment is accepted by the proposed group because it goes on the same line that this group proposes, because we say yes to audit the waiting lists. In fact, and from the Socialist Parliamentary Group, we have put forward countless initiatives requesting data from health waiting. Only in April do we have five articles 9 pending to know the status of waiting lists in each of our country's hospital complexes. And surely your lordships remember how, from this House, we have asked for the creation of a non-permanent commission for the study of the lists, all this rejected by the People's Party. But today we want more, we want to know the waiting lists where they were not until now, in primary care, and also in services where there can't be wait, as it is...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u163	It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u164	...or Palliative Care. I'm done now, Mr President, saying that information on how many people are hired to fill vacancies caused by vacations, of course, but they should also give us the data of songs are hired full-time and for all the time that lasts the vacancy, because it's not worth hiring a person a day to cover three books. I'm done making a slaughter, the advisor from here spoke to us the other day that the bed resource is not important. How does the bed resource not matter? The bed resource is essential for any professional in the public health system, and if not, ask. But it's also essential for any citizen of Galicia who makes use of the public health system, because, ladies and gentlemen, the bed resource is what turns a health center into a hospital. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u165	Thank you, Mrs. Acuña. Joint Parliamentary Group. Mrs. Churches.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u166	Good afternoon, ladies. Thank you, President. I support the motion as a whole and demand the resignation of the Health Counsellor, Mrs Mosquera. I request your resignation for incompetence and incapacity in your management at the head of the council; an unsustainable, destructive and unhindered management of reality. An immutable management, since Mrs Mosquera operates on the dictates of the American multinationals and financials, who own most of the management of our ill-treatment public health. The closure that took place during the summer months of 2014, of 1,200 beds throughout Galicia, is an abusive and unjustifiable fact, which is to the detriment of the rights of patients and professionals of public health, and which is driven by a purely economic criterion, without justification, recognized by the Constitution as the right of protection by public authorities. It is obvious that the closure of beds only increases the already saturated waiting lists that exist in many of the Greek centers, damaging the public buildings by failing to meet the established deadlines and by drawing the sick and sick to private homes. This closing incontinence of beds and surgeries resulted in an increase of 1,300 patients in the intervention waiting lists, but what are we going to expect? The counselor has no desire to do his job as a service to citizenship. A counselor who doesn't have the smell of plugging her husband and who tries to justify her mismanagement by blaming the patients, the seasonal stages, and, as it may not, the two-party government. If there are fewer children, we may not need so many pediatricians and more geriatrics, justifying cuts in pediatric services. I am not satisfied with the confor, nor with the time, not the last peak of flu with the collapsed and overflowed emergencies. 70 percent of those who attend emergencies were not vaccinated, trying to blame the people who attend this service again. What can we expect – I repeat – from the management of a councillor who entered the office through a rotating door that led her to the councillorship from the Nosa Terra de Povervisa group, where he held a managerial position? What can we expect – I insist – from a counselor who could not possibly use the position to supposedly place his husband in the head of the CHUS and has a daughter linked to the PWC consultant, who participated in the adjudication of Vigo hospital? I support the motion and insist on the request to resign the advisor, Mrs Mosquera. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u167	Thank you, Mrs Iglesias. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u168	Good afternoon. Since the BNG we will also support this initiative because, perhaps because of tiredness, at some point the People's Party is able to provide information that by law they are obliged to do and that they fail systematically. As much as the different groups ask for information on what the welfare situation in Galicia is, of number of beds, of hired personnel, we meet with the People's Party fence in front of the German Government, which, once again failing another of its obligations, does not facilitate it. The last parliamentary session, the full past, the truth is that in the counsellor's intervention it was not surprising, but rather very illustrative, his silence, however much so that I, on behalf of the Nationalist Galego Block, asked him why at this time of the year 2015 – we are in May – had not published the information about which was the planning for the summer. Because his unreporting silence as to which the forecasts of closed beds will be or what the contracts will be, when years before these heights have facilitated them, he has shown that they put the electoral interests of the People's Party above the health care of the Greeks and the Greeks. It is clear that as much as you intend to deny the People's Party the reality, as much as you invent rhetorical phrases, it is rather ironic that the counselor persists in claiming that the bed resource is not as essential as it was before, or imaginative exits of the type you have to encourage the hospital at home, or you're already laughing at it by saying that you have to dig into the possibilities of hospitalization at home, which I don't know then if the People's Party Member who goes out here to intervene will be able to explain to us how he is hospitalized at home, because either you're at home or you're hospitalized, but hospitalization at home is already the total distortion of language. I mean, whether you're hospitalized or if you're up at home. So, you guys already make a mix, you're already hospitable at home. I've already told the counsellor the other day that the family costs, the mainly women's costs. The reality is that the People's Party closes every year... yes, every year it closes more beds for more months in summer, over the last few years it has been four months, and this is not by chance, it's an ideological choice. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Instead of prioritising the health of the Greeks and the Greeks, their health care needs and the necessary quality of care, because the People's Party prioritizes the cuts: budget cuts, compensation and spending on people, and they use that maximum: if there is no activity, there is no expense. That's how they line up their accounts, what they do with less. As much as you want to deny it, close your beds if it has consequences, it's not harmless. It has consequences for the quality of care because the waiting lists are multiplied, because there is more pressure on professionals and because many people are currently suffering the consequences of their policies. The number of people on the waiting list for priority 1 and for priority 2 is way above what you recognize. People who refuse to go to private are leaving them in a drawer, they're going for months and even years without being called if they don't agree to go to private; that's the real reality. And all this has to be added to the important impact it has on the employment of the health sector. They're condemning thousands of people who are on the recruitment lists, who pay for being on the recruitment lists, not having a single contract throughout the year or having contracts for hours, because, indeed, only in the health area...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u169	It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u170	...from Coruña for example, 5,000 professionals and 30,000 contracts. What kind of contracts are they? Hourly contracts, dayly contracts, a person's contract to take care of several casualties, to deal with various vacation processes. That's the situation you've been convicted of for health care professionals. Sergas has the lowest rate of state recruitment and the highest level of precariousness. I mean, care consequences...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u171	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u172	...consequences for professionals and, above all, consequences for the population, which is suffering brutally the consequences of the measures taken by the People's Party. Again, I suppose they'll come out here to deny it, but the reality is that they don't want to give information; darkening and hiding data. BNG will support this initiative. If they had some value, they'd vote in favour and give once and for all the data we've seen demanding them.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u173	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. People's Parliamentary Group. Mr. Núñez Centeno.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u174	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, gentlemen. Of course, Mrs. Prado, I'm not going to explain to you what a home hospital service is. It's been in hospitals long before he ruled the bipartite. It's coming from before and it's still there, but good. [[Applause]] Members, ladies and gentlemen, we are again listening to the theory of chaos in the version of the left of Galicia. Everything is bad, bad, nothing works, health is a disaster. But really, that's not like the satisfaction surveys or the results of the Sergas Strategy 2014 that were presented in this Parliament very recently. The indicators of satisfaction surveys speak of a very high degree of acceptance of public health by the Greeks and the Greeks. They say, for example, that the system works well or very well 77.4%, compared to 75.5% that it said in 2009. Or I'll put a 6.07 note in front of a 5.91 of those same years. In the Sergas Strategy 2014 there were figures, there were no opinions, and these figures say, for example, that surgical performance has increased significantly; priority 1 waiting list was reduced from 28.3 to 17.1 days between 2009 and 2014; the average waiting for disease consultation in our hospitals has dropped from 68 to 50 days; the major outpatient surgery has grown more than 45%; 5,716 people have entered home hospital, Mrs Prado, more than 98,000 stays; more than 100,000 outpatient surgery interventions have been performed in 2014 over 50% of the total. We were monitored at home chronic diseases of the type of COPD or diabetes, prepared for primary care professionals to manage heart failure, etc. And for what? To save? No, to avoid days of hospitalization, that especially in older people – and you know very well, Mrs. Acuña – often leads to physical complications and, above all, psychics. That's the trend in all advanced societies, they like it or they don't like it. You, in the interrogation with the advisor, said tremendously serious things. They talked about high-speed rushes, they talked about half-stays under the necessary times. Are you accusing Sergas of giving high precipitates, Mrs. Acuña? Do we go back to high school again for 30 euros? I think that's tremendously serious. If you believe what you say I suppose you'll have proof, you should go to trial. I think I should go to trial. Mrs. Prado, in that same audience, also spoke of high premature and average hospitalization stays below what would be necessary. From now on, our group, the Popular Parliamentary Group, defends the optionals of the Galician Health Service, thanking them for their work and dedication. They'll never hear us say what you say here, or similar things they've said in the past. I, of course, had to listen to them and reject them when I was in my professional business and you said I was high for 30 euros. As far as half-stays are concerned, I wanted to tell you that Galicians are the highest in the state, and the Spaniards were the highest in all of Europe. Fortunately, that's normalizing. Medicine is progressing fast steps, and things like cataract surgeons, laparoscopic surgeons, acute hepatitis, or many processes that needed long income, are resolved today. These are the reasons why the bed resource is less and less important. Results are valued, beds are not valued. And the results are good enough for the population to value them. Mr. Santalices has already said so in the previous plenary session. What's going to happen this summer? Because the public hospital will open Álvaro Cunqueiro de Vigo with 1,465 hospital beds. You know it's delivered by the company and that in the first days of July it's going to work. That's really the health news of summer. We won't be the ones who catalogued this fact as a planetary historical event, so we have other groups other than our own. We're just saying it's a great health infrastructure that's been built, and if you're going to put it into operation, in very difficult times. That's what people value, and that's why they value how the Galician Health Service does. In short, like every year and like all the health services in our country, the Health Council will proceed to plan – as it could not be otherwise – the measures of aid reorganization of hospitalization in the summer period. To ease her disappointment, she already told her advisor that no services like Internal Medicine or Palliatives were closed. Last year, more than 86% of the beds were operational throughout the year, and the occupancy rate was 77.7%, well below 85%, which is considered to be ideal occupation in medical literature. This planning is done because there is an obligation to efficiently manage public funds, but it always guarantees the safety and care of the sick and attention in those processes that do not allow delay. You can activate those units at any time you need, and we have recent examples. Staff's regulatory vacations are effectively managed, and last year, between July and August, it took 63% of Sergas's staff.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u175	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u176	Finished, President. You know, you talked here about the impossibility of replacing. What is needed with union control is replaced. It's used to make repairs, and we all know that in summer there's a decline in seasonal chronic pathologies.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u177	Thank you very much, Mr. Núñez Centeno.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u178	We're not going to support your motion, but we can announce to you the attendance that the Government has registered to explain the details and figures of the reorganization of hospital resources...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u179	Thank you very much, Mr. Núñez. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u180	... during the summer of this year. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u181	Motion author group. You have the word Eva Solla says.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u182	First, thank the Socialist Party, the Galician Nationalist Block and the Joint Group for the support of the motion. We're going to accept the PSdEG amendment. We understand that it complements what is required in the motion itself. And referring to the People's Group, if they see it as such, they could have spoken about the content of the motion, because again, as in the previous plenary session, they came to talk about what they wanted. I'm really surprised. They can talk absolutely about what they want, but the initiatives they are debating do not talk about, nor do they call the issue. The truth is, you see the double measuring stick. But in that sense, Mr Centeno, if you talk about evaluating figures, perhaps you should give the figures so that they can be evaluated. What is requested in this motion is a series of data that has been systematically denied to provide in this House, which is a shame, because in some cases it is the fourth time we ask them, and they are obliged by the Autonomy Statute itself, Madam Health Counsellor, to account here for their management. They are obliged to provide information to Members and Members of this House, but you pass the rules and regulations wherever you want and, of course, they do not come here to provide the required data. You see, 2,000 professionals less, 450 beds less in the Galego Health Service, we told them in the past full and also in the full in which the Counsellor came; 12% less in the health budget, and half of the currently privatized health budget. I don't know what they're going to do to this whole place when they're not able to stand on a request for information, and I don't know how we're going to ask them, if we're going to come with a poster here, if we're going to slam them in front of the Health Council or whatever they want. Because we're not asking for anything for ourselves, we're asking for the right of the Galicians and the Greeks to know how they manage their health, which is a public service that is being cleaned up by their neoliberal policies, we're tired of saying it in this plenary. We want to know what vacations will be covered, because there is a tremendous unemployment among health professionals and the excuses that there are places that can't be covered are no longer valid. You can't keep closing beds in the Galego Health Service when there's a waiting list. You can't come here saying that you don't need all the beds when you continue to have collapses in the emergency and waiting lists. You're not ashamed, you're not ashamed! And anyway, tell him what they just said here, tell him they're going to vote against providing that information, to people who, in some cases, like the trauma lists, have been waiting for years and years to intervene. [[Applause]] Motions vote
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u183	Thank you very much. We passed the motions. We begin with the vote of the motion of the Parliamentary Group on the Nationalist Block Galego on the initiative of Mrs Paz Franco, who accepts the amendment of the Joint Group, and the Socialist Parliamentary Group accepts the 4bis and 4ter part, the second of the amendments. That's what I understood. Then the PP asked for a point vote, didn't it? Do you accept all that?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u184	Yes, Madam President. If I may, to clarify exactly the terms of the vote. By accepting the proposal made by the People's Group, and according to the spokesperson, we would vote, on the one hand, point 1 and 2, with the incorporation of the amendment of the Joint Group; and then points 3 and 4, also with the incorporation of the amendment of the Joint Group, and 4bis and 4ter, together.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u185	No, I think it's more complicated, Mrs. Paz. I think it's best to vote points and then amends, if you like, 1 and 2, 3 and 4.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u186	No, because the amendments are incorporated into the points.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u187	But they're of addition.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u188	Yeah.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u189	I think it's a lot more...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u190	No, but that's the way...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u191	We usually vote points and then add...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u192	But I think it's easier to vote point 1 and 2 on the one hand, which is what we're going to vote some, and on the other hand, 3, 4, 5, and 6, on the other hand.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u193	Okay.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u194	...that will have a different vote. And to say that if the Socialist Group doesn't care, I make a deal. Where it puts "confusion" we put "confusion," which I think is more correct.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u195	So you think we're voting points 1 and 2 and then points 3 and 4 and then the amendments, you think?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u196	I don't know. I just don't...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u197	Well, then with the counseling of the lawyer as Mrs. Paz said, we started by voting point 1 and 2 of the motion. We vote. Vote of points 1 and 2 of the G.P. Motion. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da María Teresca Paz Franco and D. Francisco Jesús Jorquera Caselas, on the taxation of the pensions of returned emigrants. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. These points are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u198	We then vote points 3 and 4. We vote. Vote of points 3 and 4 of the G.P. Motion. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da María Teresca Paz Franco and D. Francisco Jesús Jorquera Caselas, on the taxation of the pensions of returned emigrants. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 73. The voting is positive. These points are therefore adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u199	We now vote, if you like, on amendments to addendum, both from the Joint Group and from the Socialist Group. [[Interruptions.]] Wait a minute. [[Mrs. Paz Franco utters words that are not perceived.]] Let's see, Mrs Peace, what would be left to vote is the addition of points 4a and 4b of the socialist amendment. The one in the Joint Group wasn't incorporated, we didn't vote for it, that's what I was telling you. We're going to vote on 4a and 4b of the socialist amendment. We vote. Voting of addendum points 4a and 4b of the G.P. amendment. from Galician Socialists to the G.P. Motion. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da María Teresca Paz Franco and D. Francisco Jesús Jorquera Caselas, on the taxation of the pensions of returned emigrants. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 72. The voting is positive. As a result, these two addition points are approved unanimously.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u200	And now I would vote for the amendment of the Joint Group. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I'm sorry. Let's see, Mrs. Peace, if we get this straight, because I recognize that I'm not very agile right now, but what's true is... we'll read it and finish it first. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Well, then it's the best way to vote it separately. [[Mrs. Paz Franco utters words that are not perceived.]] Let us see, Mrs Paz, that what we have voted on was points 1 and 2, points 3 and 4, the addition of the Socialist Group, and now we are voting on the amendment of the Joint Group. [[Mrs. Paz Franco utters words that are not perceived.]] No, we now vote as a complete amendment. Well, what points do you want to vote for?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u201	Mr. Puy, you tell him, see if he understands you better than I do.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u202	Do we vote for points to amend the Joint Group? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Pause.]] Madam Peace, maybe I'm a little... let's see: let's vote points 1 and 2, we vote points 3 and 4 and we vote points 4a and 4b. What I've misjudged is 1 and 2, because 1 and 2 you can vote with the incorporated amendment of the Joint Group. Is that what you want to tell me? So, if you think of it, the only thing we would do is that the vote on points 1 and 2 will be repeated with the amendment incorporated in the Joint Group, which does the same thing. So, if you think – sorry, sorry, sorry – we see: points 3 and 4 are already voted... [[Interruptions.]] [[Mrs. Paz Franco utters words that are not perceived.]] Look, Mrs Peace, if you think we're going to continue to vote and you're going to pass me in writing what you want us to vote and point, because we finally disagree. [[Mr. Gallego Lomba pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Well, I think it's all right, Mr. Gallego, what are we going to do with it? That's what's happening. We vote for the second of the motions. We'll resume the motion later, we'll finish with the rest of the motions if they like. We are voting on the motion by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, on the initiative of Mr García, who accepts the amendment of the Joint Group and accepts the amendment of the BNG as addition amendments. We vote. Text vote on the G.P. Motion. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of Mr Pablo García García and two other Members, on the policy developed by the Galician Union in relation to the forest sector. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 31 votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u203	We voted on the motion by the Parliamentary Group of the Glaga Alternative of the Left, on the initiative of Mrs Solla Fernández, who said that she accepted the amendment of the Socialist Group. Text vote on the G.P. Motion. of the Alternative Glaga de Left, at the initiative of Da Eva Solla Fernández, on the beds closed during the summer of 2014 in the hospitals of Sergas and the staff vacation coverage. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u204	Mrs. Peace, we're going to continue with... tranquility, please. [[Murmurs.]] Quiet, sometimes things don't come out the way they have to go out, and we have to reorganize them, and it's okay. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] So, let's start with the vote. We would vote points 1 and 2 with the part of the amendment to the Joint Group that affects them. We vote. Text vote on points 1 and 2 of the G.P. Motion. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da María Teresca Paz Franco and D. Francisco Jesús Jorquera Caselas, on the taxation of the pensions of returned emigrants. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. These points are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u205	And then we voted points 3 and 4 with part of the amendment of the Joint Group, and we could also vote points 4a and 4b of the Socialist Group. It's just that sometimes if they don't let me, I can't explain. [[Laughter]] Well, we vote. Vote of the transactioned text of points 3 and 4, plus points 4a and 4b of the G.P. amendment. of the Socialists of Galicia, of the motion of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da María Teresca Paz Franco and D. Francisco Jesús Jorquera Caselas, on the taxation of the pensions of returned emigrants. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 72. The voting is positive. It was therefore adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u206	After this very complicated vote on my part, I apologize for not being better controlled, but sometimes things happen and I apologize for it. We continue with the development of the agenda, with point 4 of non-legislative proposals. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo and D. Daniel Roda Chapela, on the actions of the Galician Union aimed at ensuring the sanitation and integral purification of the Galician rivers
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u207	There were no amendments to the proposal and Mrs. Pontón has the floor to make it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u208	Good afternoon. The truth is, today is a curious day, in the morning the PP voted against a plan that approved Mr. Fraga's Government, of which Mr. Feijóo was vice president, and now...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u209	Quiet, please. Mrs. Pontón, continue.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u210	Well, I continue if the democracy of the PP allows me, of course, if we don't actually put on the bite, which is what you would like us to do, right?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u211	Mrs. Pontón, do not dialogue please and continue. Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u212	I would ask you to respect me for the Members and Members of the People's Parliamentary Group. Well, as I said, today it seems to be a curious day because the People's Party – as I say – voted against a plan promoted and approved by Mr. Fraga Iribarne, which they accused of being a nationalist, who strongly imposed on the Greek, that the Greek always imposes itself – this is a natural thing for the People's Party – and now we've just seen how in the same session in a minute the PP votes against and in favour of it. I mean, I'm a serious, solvent and very respectful political force in addition to what we do in this Parliament. And today we're going to talk about a serious issue and an important issue, I think it's very important for this country, as is the situation of laughter. And let me share a thought with you because of a person, I imagine that for members of the People's Party there will be some kind of credibility, and he would say, "Today we bring here those emblematic spaces that are our laughs, but to speak of them and their problems we must speak before the waters, of that scarce natural resource in many parts of the planet and of what we have a treasure below our lands. We'd have to talk about our aquifers, underground waters, well problems, black and white. And that would lead us to talk about the sad spectacle that takes place day and day, too, with the uncontrollable spills to our rivers. It is sad to recognize it, but the show is little edifying and very little European if we make a balance of the last dates in relation to the spills to the Rivers Verdugo, Barbaña, Gafos, Ulla, Sil, Sar – what would Rosaly say?–... And "the rivers will die in the sea" as the poet said. And our laughs, which have been synonymous with beauty and wealth, beauty in its landscape, fishing and seafood wealth, by the quality of its water, by the plantation, by the temperature, by our currents, are today touched, touched by death by spills and by a situation that we really need to remedy. It's true that in recent decades there has been a significant increase in population nuclei, but also a great uncontrollable urban pressure. There has been little or no planned economic and industrial growth, there has been a disorder of the territory, there has been, ultimately, a lack of sensitivity in the entire valley that has led to the environmental imbalance that we have today and which is very serious. We have nineteen laughs in which there are now counted seven thousand contaminant spills; essentially municipal, because they become undeclared, poorly purified and poorly functioning of the debuggers, to which industrial spills must be added, above all, to the great streams like Vigo or Arousa, and also to add sediments, sludges, direct spills of individuals. The situation is truly unsustainable, never better said. We've got to meet a lot now! Yells can't be the dumplings of the Greek territory, some of them already turned into genuine cloacas, like Burgo or Ferrol, in which to waltz is an adventure and even a risk to human health." This intervention, ladies and gentlemen, which I believe we could subscribe to, because it is the intervention and balance which the People's Parliamentary Group made in 2009, and today is the main disqualification of what Mr Núñez Feijóo has done over these six years. Because this intervention, which – as I say – has made a member of the People's Group, Mr Varela Suanzes-Carpegna, because today actually serves to describe the reality that we have in our rivers and serves to describe the incompetence of the governments of the People's Party, which we see does not worry that one of the most important and sensitive elements of our territory, such as laughter, which have an environmental value, which have a very important social and cultural and economic value, because they are in that situation which was described so clearly in 2009. In fact, we have a lot of problems that are getting chronicled and getting worse and worse over time in relation to the situation of our rivers. At that time, what I was ignoring or what the spokesperson for the People's Group did not say was that directives and laws were grossly violated with direct responsibility for the rulings of the People's Party. Directive 91/271 stated that in 2001 they had to have sanitation and purification systems for all populations of 150,000 inhabitants or equivalents; on 31 December 2005 they had to have these systems all populations with 2,000 inhabitants or equivalent. And in Galicia these directives in 2016 remain unfulfilled. And we have a chronic problem in our rivers, partly because there is a relevant responsibility of the People's Party governments, who preferred to invest the money that had to go to purification, to sanitation, in maritime walks, in works above, even though below what we had was a very serious problem, which today becomes chronic and is costing us a lot from an economic point of view. And we want to continue to denounce these lies, because here there were ministers and ministers who came here to promise us that the problem of laughter would be overcome. In 1999 there was one of these stellar visits that precedes the election campaigns, and Mrs. Tocino, on the side of that Mr. Fraga, of what now seems to be that the People's Party is denying, committed to the fact that in 2006 all the declared works of general interest of the State would be in operation. It took a long time for that to be in operation, it's not in full form and we're still having a very big problem in our country. A problem that leads us to today that we have in Galicia 87% of the shellfish areas with fecal contaminants, that we have areas and marine banks in which we can't swim, that we have very few areas because it says of optimal quality in our rivers. And that has economic implications, from the point of view of job creation and also from the point of view of people's health, which we think is very important. We still have a very serious problem with debuggers that are sources of pollution, debuggers managed by the Galician Union, debuggers that are paying the Greeks and the Greeks with their taxes, because we must remind them that, by virtue of this Waters Act that the People's Party has approved, today people who have a debugger managed by the Galician Union are paying very high rates, and in many cases these debuggers are not working well. According to a report by the Galician Union itself, two-thirds of the debuggers that pour into the sea work poorly. We continue to have many points of uncontrolled greenery – we have just seen the problems that this causes, for example, in the stream of the Crown – without the Council of Galicia doing absolutely nothing, with cross-hands, as if it were not with them. And the most serious thing: all they sell to us is advertising and propaganda. Look, Mr. Feijóo in 2014 said that since 2009 465 million have been mobilized – this was in February–. In December 2014 – here miracles work very well on Mr. Feijóo’s propaganda – we have already mobilized 1 billion. The truth is, it's all a real coat of hair...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u213	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u214	...We understand, ladies and gentlemen, that there is a historical debt of the state to Galicia, which has always discriminated against us in relation to the investment in purification and sanitation; we were the last of the state to have some kind of funding and they always had to collaborate with local administrations and autonomous communities. And that didn't happen elsewhere in the state. And we have a very serious problem with planning and cleaning our rivers, because the problems are not just that there are problems with faeces, there are also problems with metal pollution, very important in many of our rivers. University research alerts to the serious problem of this, but PP assumes that here as in Prestige also wants to merge reality. What we are saying today is that, first of all, this Parliament has to say that it is full of propaganda and lies in this matter, that priority and strategic actions must be declared to be aimed at achieving an integral cleansing and healing of our rivers...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u215	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u216	...and for that, resources are required, planning and follow-up is required, and this Parliament becomes a body where we really control government action and put priorities, because it's okay, because we say that our laughs, which are one of the economic motors, one of the emblems of this country, have to be in good condition and not as they currently have them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u217	Thank you very much. Intervention of parliamentary groups. The Joint Parliamentary Group has the floor to Mrs. Iglesias Sueiro.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u218	Thank you, President. At its moment, President Núñez Feijóo, at the beginning of the previous legislation, announces a 2009-2016 River Sanitation Plan. And I say that by the state in which the laughs are found today, and our coast, because the plan was done wrong or not done. The coasts of Galicia cover around 1,700 kilometers in length, more than 30% of the entire Iberian peninsula coast. The Greek coast is known by everyone who has a unique landscape, biological and ethnographic richness in the world, and is an indispensable part of our cultural identity, our emotional references and our future as a people. But this singularity has not been supported or valued by administrations, nor has it been respected in the private sphere. Literal ecosystems and coastal submerged are areas that are very sensitive to changes in the environment. The Greek coast has already largely exceeded its capacity to load, understood as the ability to assimilate human predictions without suffering irreversible deterioration, to the extent of human and industrial settlements, which lack most of the minimum measures of green management and water purification. This situation, which I have already assumed in the Vigo River to impose a penalty of more than EUR 20 million on the European Union, means that more than 650,000 Greeks and Greeks shed their wastes untreated in the Galician rivers. And these wastes are not only domestic, they have more than half their origin in the industry. According to accredited studies, each new housing built on the coast generates each year the following environmental burden: a consumption of 60,000 litres of water and more than 600 kilowatts/hours per year, 584 kilograms of urban waste and 1,083 kilograms/year of CO2. When you still have no capacity to meet the impacts of already urbanized – turning around Sanxenxo and Portonovo is crying with grief – it seems wise to have zero build-up on the coast and, of course, on the creeks. In the industrial and civil works, fillings, sports courts, wind farms, fish farms and industries of all kinds invade the coast, regardless of the protection figure with which a certain space counts, in a subsidised career towards nowhere, with the false excuse of job creation. Bread for today and hunger for tomorrow, which opens the door to the destruction of the coast and, in a special way, to the destruction of the rivers. All of this translates into an irreversible cultural, environmental and economic loss. Side damage to capitalism. Among other measures, a comprehensive sanitation plan is needed to include clean-up mechanisms separate from waste water, industrial and urban, to facilitate the recycling of sludge by a network of small, small-sized, and close to the waste water generation sites. I support this initiative. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u219	Thank you very much. Mr Fajardo has the floor by the Parliamentary Group of the Gaga de Left Alternative.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u220	Good afternoon, everyone. Alternative Left-Galga will support the initiative. But, of course, it is frustrating that a country governed by a president accustomed to going down the creek – yes, in the jets of drug traffickers! – have the situation that you have today as regards the maintenance and biodiversity of their rivers. So, I think it can't be because they don't know how to act, because they don't know what the problems of laughter are, but simply because it's a decided economic strategy. How, if not, can it be understood – it has been explained here – that the president spoke of 457 million euros of investment, and on other occasions one billion euros of investment, and today's situation is absolutely dramatic, if it's not a wanted situation? And surely we, as a good part of the sector, believe that there is a fundamental objective, that is to expel people living out of the sea from our rivers, with the objective that once it is not possible to keep a family for fishing or for the seafood of our rivers, they have the paid way for the deployment of the great industrialists who were visited not many months ago in Asia, the Beijóo itself. If they're already trying to expel our mariners and our fishermen by the very low yield rates of their industries, in addition to now what they want is to do through the uselessness of contaminated streams, without doing anything to clean up this situation. That's why the number of jobs that have been destroyed in fishing and shellfish is 20 points above the jobs that have been destroyed in the rest of the sector. So there's a clear economic initiative, which is to split our backs, to split up most of our rivers, so that the big fishhouses can be installed there. It's more, even today in the publications of this country, it comes out like the Government bet on that mechanism. Even an audacious Member of this Parliament, very accustomed to calling by telephone, receiving "gift gifts" and having their summaries kept secret, also says in his tweet that that's the way. This is what the People's Party is looking for: to end our model of rhino exploitation to install large industries that end up privately exploiting the whole of rhino. Because, if not, it couldn't be understood that, then supposedly spending 457 million euros, today most of our rivers have a lamentable situation, for two fundamental issues: and it's that more than half of what is seen in laughter is seen directly, without any kind of treatment, because almost none of the new debuggers has tertiary clearance. But above all, because new pollution processes are not taken into account and they are not cut off when they meet. There's a very important study at the University of Vigo, which is already talking about contaminants, drugs. Our rivers continue to follow and continue to reach untreated medicines, and for example, in the Pontevedra stream or in the Arousa stream there are high concentrations of paracetamol or diclofenac. So there are new contaminants and nothing is being done. Why is nothing done? Simply because there is this economic strategy, designed to end up with a model of historical production, which feeds a lot of people. Simply because of a process of capital accumulation, which aims – which I have already explained here at one time – that large fishhouses are installed in our rivers and use the Greek mussel as food for these animals, and, in addition, that it is the mussel which is responsible for purifying the wastes of those fishhouses. So we're in a dramatic situation and nothing is done at all. Because it's not enough to create new debuggers in every municipality in the country that has a cost, but it's also if you're letting our ports, for example, become industrial polygons. There's no industrial policy, but, instead, we're able to fill our laughs...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u221	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u222	...where the ports are understood as industrial polygons. Or, for example, it normally contains that in all our rivers contaminant industries are placed on their shores and it is not controlled that these contaminant industries are poured directly into the rivers. Also an example that we put here many times: like the People's Party and Mr. Núñez Feijóo will announce employment plans to a company that makes 12-hour working days very close to the Ulla River? But that same company also has debugging problems and continues to see in many cases directly to the Ulla River, and nobody cares about looking at that situation. Just as no one is concerned about observing the harmful effects on the rivers had the works of the Atlantic axis. How is it possible that the impact of Pontevedra, the river of Vigo and the river of Arousa has much to do with some of the sediments that come from the works of the Atlantic axis? Therefore, we are faced with a brutal and indiscriminate attack of our rivers, with the only objective of making them unproductive and then saying: the only way you have to live in the rivers is to allow them to install multinationals...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u223	Finish, Mr. Fajardo, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u224	...and that you work for broth in those multinationals. As you are, by the way, asking Anfaco, who, as you know, is suggesting that his workers cover part of his salary in cans of cans of cans of cans and not in money as we have collected. I hope that here we also propose that some of our salary be covered in paper and not in money.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u225	Thank you very much, Mr. Fajardo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u226	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u227	In any case, Mr. Fajardo, I will not withdraw anything from your intervention, but if you will have a call to order because on two occasions at least I think you have failed to honor this House by addressing the President and a Member. And, therefore, you have a call to order. Mr Vilán, representative of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, then has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u228	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. It was once, in March 2009, that the PSdEG lost the election and ended a bad, evil government, with a stepmother who left everything behind in the field of purification and sanitation. He left without a bid for two debuggers: one in Poio and Sanxenxo, in Pontevedra, and another in Ribeira, in Coruña. And Galicia lost the opportunity to receive more grants from the European Union, and sanctions were at the door. It was once, in March 2009, that a leader of the People's Party again won the elections, and thus, in the face of the six few years of government with that terrible stepmother, there was a prince who would succeed until today to have twenty-six years of government of the People's Party. It was once, in June 2009, that this prince's government announced in a gang: "Rhinland pollution is worse than four years ago. We will reorient the stream sanitation policy after the failure to manage the bipartite, which left these spaces worse than four years ago." Finally, thanks to this prince, Poio, Sanxenxo and Ribeira would again have debuggers! It was once again, in October 2012, that the People's Party won the elections again and that prince was once again President of Galicia, but Poio, Sanxenxo and Ribeira still had no debuggers. It was once, in February 2013, that several soldiers from the European Parliament came to Galicia to control the clearance of the rivers of Galicia and concluded that there are areas in our rivers that are very productive but are in grave danger if no urgent action is taken. They used to talk about these dirty soldiers in the German rivers. It was once, at the end of 2014, that the queen of this Europe announced that she would denounce Spain, and Galicia, therefore, before the European Union Court of Justice because there is no guarantee of good treatment of urban waste water in various parts of Galicia, because there is a lack of proper treatment system and because there is a risk for public health. But it wasn't the first time; in this story there was a repetition also in April 2011 and October 2013, and the queen denounced exactly the same thing. The European Queen herself referred to reports from the Spanish authorities, which we have been waiting for six months since that prince's government. And the reports show that there was a lack of a proper treatment system in several clusters of Galicia, but Poio, Sanxenxo and Ribeira were still undisputed. It was once three exemplary laughs: Pontevedra, Arousa, The Burgo. Pontevedra, contaminated and with toxins that make it closed to the shellfish since April; Arousa, where the Berberecho dies, the plum dies, with red tide and toxin that are strangling the mexillon producers; that of Burgo, with mud reaching – according to that European queen – two meters deep and with greenery in recent months that have closed the ried to the seafood. What then is the policy – we asked ourselves – of that People's Party Prince in the field of purification and sanitation? Perhaps the same as you gave us these days in response to Article 9 yesterday even the President of the Waters of Galicia: "Since the waters of Galicia are starting the work leading to the development of the Sanitation Plan of the River of Pontevedra." Twenty-six years after the start of the story. Colorful color, this story is over. We're going to vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u229	The People's Group has the floor Mr. Freire Abeijón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u230	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon. Mrs. Vilan, I don't know if today's march of Mr. Vázquez of this House has anything to do with his fable or if the story would be another way of being here. But the truth is, some if they never had government responsibilities, would have been easier to maintain a coherent speech. And the truth is that that stage of government wasn't too long but it was enough for you not to be able to draw on the performances performed and carried out in this matter, as in many others. In addition, I would say that you have precisely put up with comparisons because that period does not very easily support comparisons in environmental management. But the truth is, Junta has a clear commitment to healing the rivers and is contributing effectively to this sanitation, even if you don't see it that way. Twenty-five years ago Galicia had only one debugger in operation and now there are 153 large debuggers. Twenty-five years ago, the ability to debug water through that debugger was for 10,000 neighbors, and now there are more than three and a half million equivalent inhabitants capable of being purified through the debuggers that are in operation or are currently under construction. And the truth is that since 2009 – which they also referred to here – more than 750 million euros are being mobilized in land-wide clearance works. Many points of uncontrolled greenery have already been suppressed, and some evidence of that would be the debugging station of Vigo, that of Ribeira, that of the Grove, that of Corrubedo, that of Gandario, that of Malpica, that of Cervo, that of Ribadeo, Ribadumuria... Although some people are disturbed by this data, the fact is that, in addition, these actions have been done without forgetting that the competences of sanitation and purification are municipal competences, and the responsibility of the Board of Galicia is to collaborate with the municipalities to make more effective management and to carry out those investments. But, in any case, the Greek Government is taking decisive and continuous steps to achieve that effective management. And it is doing so in terms of water quality through two fundamental directives, such as the Water Treatment Directive and the Water Framework Directive. Regarding water treatment, we inform you that, as we have already commented, there are 153 debuggers of more than two thousand equivalent inhabitants operating in Galicia at the moment; there are three virtually finished new ones: in Grove, Corrubedo, Ribeira; also three running: in Gandario, Malpica and San Cibrao; and are doing works to improve debugging in places like Negro, Vigo, Santiago de Compostela, etc. With these actions, at the end of this year, of 2015, all the nuclei of more than 2,000 inhabitants will have work to comply with this directive. And as far as the Water Framework Directive is concerned, in 2010 Galician Union approved a hydrological, planned and meditated plan, which was, by the way, the second in all Spain, and also in January 2015 the draft of the new plan was published. It includes in this draft information on the current situation of rivers, which I have to tell you does not exactly match the description some people have just made here. Regarding the adopted strategy and the actions that are going to develop, this problem is being tackled from four fronts: a normative front, a technical front, an operational front, and also, like, a strong investment to make that management effective. To say that as regards the investment strategy for the coming years, it is planned to apply European funds on two basic lines of action, which directly affect the quality of rivers, such as sanitation and purification to meet the objectives of the European directives, and the reform and optimization of the systems for the sanitation of the Greek rivers. In short, laughter is a priority for this government, they are a priority for the Greek Government and they are currently mobilising around 460 million euros directly in their sanitation. In addition, work is being carried out or is already being carried out to comply with these directives also through the new operational period of European funds. And the new hydrological plan that is currently under public consultation.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u231	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u232	...recognize the situation of each of them and the measures to be taken to improve it. So we have no choice but to reject his initiative. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u233	Thank you. The author group of the non-law proposal has the floor to Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u234	Thank you very much, Madam President. Of course, I think it's a very bad news today that the People's Party is investigating itself in denying reality, because telling us that the situation of laughter is great, that there is no kind of problem and that it's all solved is living from behind reality. And that's always negative because a government – in this case a party that has the responsibility to tell the Government whether it has to act in a field or not – that comes here to tell us that there is no kind of problem because the truth is absurd, especially, because until the members of the Government come to this House they have to recognize the problems that exist. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And they recognize that there are problems in sanitation and purification and that all the good that should be done is not done, that there are breaches of the regulations, that can, by the way, come out very expensive because they can assume new sanctions, that, in the end, even if they don't go directly to the citizens, they go indirectly if they have to pay for the taxes that are in the budgets that then run the governments. It seems to me that coming here with the canteen of the bipartisan is as tired as accusing of the ineffectiveness of a government that has been ruling for six years and of a party that has been in front of the government because I believe that in more than the last 20 years. [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] Therefore, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, stop practicing that cynicism that characterizes them and recognizes their responsibility. We have – I said – 87% of the shellfish areas that present fecal contaminants right now; this means that there are many people who cannot work or who are seeing their income limited. We have seafood banks that if you really want to act today you might be giving a lot of people a job, but you don't seem to care. Today we propose something that is very simple. I understand that the People's Party could not accept the first point; in any case, I suppose that since there are no amendments, it would be easy to vote on this initiative by points. Because we were asking them to clean themselves up and to clean themselves up, to be considered as a priority, and to have a thorough follow-up in this Parliament of what is being done. Because, look, it's funny that you come here now to say that everything is already studied and that you already know what to do. Because that contradicts, for example, that electoral strategy that is leading the People's Party to Pontevedra, which tells us that the problem is that we don't know how the sanitation network is. Of course, it's all an example of the cynicism that you spend on this matter, your hypocrisy, and, most importantly, your irresponsibility, because they're playing with health and the environment. And that's what we hope someday, of course, has a cost that's not just an election. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u235	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Proposal by the People's Parliamentary Group of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr. Santalices, what's the matter, Mr. Jorquera? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Yes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u236	By Rule 77, Madam President. Article 77 which, as you know, says: "In any state of the debate, a Member may request compliance with the Rules of Procedure. For this purpose, you must quote an article or articles from which you claim to apply." It is to claim the application of Article 162 if you want to read it textually: "The non-law proposal will be the subject of debate, in which a representative of each of the groups which tabled amendments may intervene, after the parliamentary group which did not do so. After these interventions have been completed, the proposal, with the amendments accepted by the proposal, will be put to the vote." Therefore, in application of this article, what we demand is that this non-law proposal be put to the vote and proceed in the same way with the rest of the non-law proposals included in this agenda.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u237	Well, in any case... let's actually see the non-law propositions you can vote on each of them... well, well, here's an agreement from the beginning of legislation so the different points that you have to... I'm talking to you, Mrs. Pontón, I didn't put myself when you were speaking. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Mrs. Pontón Mondelo speaks words that are not perceived.]] There is a legislative agreement that both the points where there is a vote on motions, legislative texts and non-law proposals will be voted on at the end. [[Murmurs.]] And, therefore, if you want to make a proposal, plant it where it fits, at the Speaker's Board meeting. Well, let's continue with the proposals... you don't have the word anymore, sir... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Mr. Jorquera Caselas speaks words that are not perceived.]] Mr. Jorquera, you have no word, and here everything is in the Journal of Sessions when you have the word. So, if it seems to you, we continue with the order of the day, with the proposal not of law. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. Popular of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr. Miguel Ángel Santalices Vieira and twelve other Members, on the demand by the Government of Greece to the Central Government for the study of the possibility of access to spas and Spanish hydrotherapy centres of those citizens of the countries of the European Union who have included hydrothermal therapies in their portfolio of services
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u238	The Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group has tabled an amendment to this non-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u239	Mr. Santalices has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u240	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, everyone. Well, let's talk briefly about thermalism, therapeutic thermalism. And we bring this non-law proposal, because what we want is to deepen into the most important aspect of mineral-medicine water, and we want to deepen, in addition, by the effects and therapeutic properties that have the same. The concept of a spa, as you well know, is already springing up in the 19th century. They're developing spas, and here in our community many by the way. But this important development of the spas is being truncated at a certain point by the development of the pharmaceutical industry from the 1940s, which relegated the mineral-medicine waters to a background. Fortunately, not long ago, the thermal treatments were rescheduled; therefore, we return to medical hydrology, effective but less aggressive treatments, because they are considered to be soft therapies. We should not conceive of current medicine as based only on a mechanical practice, we should consider other therapeutic aspects, such as hydrological cures. The bathing cure is a therapy – as I said – little aggressive, soft, well tolerated, which has virtually no side effects. In addition, the bathing cure remains indisputable as a factor that coadjugates in the treatment and rehabilitation of different processes and more in the chronic evolution of some of them. For example, in locomotive pathologies, such as rheumatic pathologies, which – we remember – cause 10% of labor absenteeism in our population, or respiratory device pathologies, which cause around 25-30%, dermatological pathologies, etc. Mineromedicine waters are complex natural drugs. Its therapeutic effects are related to the physical, chemical and biological characteristics and the administration techniques of this water. So we can talk about that chlorinated water is indicated in respiratory processes and processes that need a healing, sulphate water is indicated in digestive processes, sulfurates in dermatological processes and radioactive ones are indicated in sedative and analgesic effects. Of course, the choice of a spa should be conditioned by the pathology that will be treated and by the properties that the water has of each spa. We must not make the choice of the spa depending on the proximity or on the offers that make us certain agencies. This is fine, but it's for other things. Here we're talking about therapeutic properties of mineral-medicine water. He doesn't want this non-law proposition to clash with the playful aspect of the spas, or much less, but he wants to make it clear that what we're talking about here is the therapeutic effect of the mineral-medicine waters. Therefore, the bathing cure is not, for example, to go one weekend to a spa; no; the bathing cure has a therapeutic treatment, which is at least fourteen days. This is what all the experts on this subject indicate. Therapeutic treatments must be performed under the prescription of optional, a doctor, of course, and the administration of the treatment itself must be protected by specialist doctors. What are the main indications that we could say of the thermal therapeutic cure? For the chronic processes – which have already been mentioned here, such as orthoarticular processes –, treatments or sequelae of prevention of neurologic diseases, recovery of post-surgical or post-traumatic treatments, allergic processes and dermatological processes. There is already a thermalism as a socio-health benefit, in which we are not going to get involved here; it is social thermalism and this seems to us interesting, but the bottom of this non-law proposal goes another way. In Europe more than 40 million people attend balnearies each year, in Spain 1,200,000 and in Galicia, about 140,000. Balne therapy in Spain – as most of you know well – is not included as a health benefit in the National Health System, contrary to what happens in most European countries. Yes, since 1989, the benefit – let us say – of the thermalism that is made through Imserso has been established. But, as I said before, today what we're considering is something else. Furthermore, more and more are the voices that demand the need for the bathing cure to be included as therapy within the national health system service portfolio. Therefore, including thermal therapy is also linked in this matter to the aging of the population. There is a great demand for assistance; the pharmaceutical bill, which therapeutic thermalism obviously escapes from it, because here we have it as we have it, 1.2 billion euros; and a financial failure of the system, where the spas can provide their role. These are factors that should be taken into account in order to include the provision within the health system. The Autonomous Community has already taken steps, since for some time it has been proposed through the Directorate-General for Public Health which had been included in the portfolio of services of the National Health System this provision, the therapeutic cure, the thermal provision. In addition, we have an added advantage here, because medical hydrology is a specialty that is studied in the faculties of medicine, and at this time in Spain there are only three medical faculties with Medical Hydrology Chair: the Complutense of Madrid, that of Seville and that of Santiago de Compostela. Therefore, our proposals affect the promotion of health, which is to prolong and improve the quality of life, and to delay diseases, thus applying our life expectancy. And in this health promotion, I use this non-law proposal to give some important information about the morbidity of certain undesirable practices. For example, quit smoking allows us to recover the normal heart risk that we all have – we all have heart risk – by stopping smoking improves the heart risk in two years, and in ten if we relate it to lung cancer. Here the spas also play an important role, because within them healthy habits are practiced. Galicia, I think it has an extreme power on that subject. This issue is raised before the ministry, so there's an amendment from the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, which we will be able to talk about later, but we're going more to the importance of the spas and thermal cure in Galicia, and also to take it as a reference source. I've already said before that there were many countries in Europe that had included in their thermal service portfolio. We are asking, although I already know that there is a European law, which can allow those who have included thermal treatment within their benefits to allow them to repay. But this isn't an effective system, our non-law proposition doesn't go so far as reimbursement is concerned, because that really slows down people who have included thermalism in other countries that can come here. What we're going to do is you can bill from here, you can bill from here what the thermal cure is. So, it seems to us an interesting proposal, a proposal that is good for Galicia, a proposal that puts value on something that we have, which is the mineral-medicine waters, and which I hope you count on with the support of all the House groups. Nothing else, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u241	Intervention of parliamentary groups. For the Galician Nationalist Block, Mrs. Prado Colors has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u242	Good afternoon. Before beginning with the intervention of this initiative, I would like to express the rejection of the discretionary use by the President of this Parliament of the Rules of Procedure, applying it in a completely discretionary manner and not as it establishes, thus preventing non-law proposals from voting at the end of each debate as set out in Article 162.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u243	Just focus and then when I'm done, I'll tell you another article that you can read, too.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u244	Well, whenever you like, Madam President. I am surprised that it is Mr. Santalices who is coming to defend this initiative and not Mr. Jesús Vázquez, isn't it?, in his dual status as a member of the People's Party in this House and as a candidate for the Mayor of Ourense by the People's Party, because four years ago, at the end of 2010, in the campaign of the municipal elections of 2011, he was the candidate for the Mayor of Ourense by the People's Party and also a Member in this House, Mr. Rosendo Fernández, who actually brought here an initiative in which he urged the Board of Galicia to carry out the work that is relevant to the inclusion in the portfolio of complementary services of the Galician Health System of Medical Hydrology Techniques. Obviously, at that time it was smoke, it was electoral propaganda, it was using the People's Party this House for the election campaign, not to bring initiatives that had some vision to respond to reality, and it was an initiative without any concretion, without deadlines and without budget. BNG has already stated at that time that it was indeed electoral propaganda in precaution of elections. And four years later, if I had heard of that initiative, there were no budget splits, the People's Party did not include it in the successive budgets, it did not ask that it be included in the budgets of the budget split so that this initiative, adopted here in this Parliament, could become a reality. And, in short, there was no political will, it was electoral smoke, just like the initiative you bring here today. I remind the Members of the People's Party that Galicia has competence in health matters, that if there is political will, nothing prevents the Council of Health, nothing prevents the Government from establishing thermal hydrotherapy in the portfolio of services, nothing prevents it. What's the matter is that you want to hide behind that they want to be declared throughout the state, because that's a very good parapet, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party. Nothing prevents them from putting him into action in Galicia. What's going on is that each election call will be held in procession, which is the great advocates of thermalism in Ourense, and then the thermalism in Ourense will be processed in an election campaign. They bring here today an initiative that once again becomes a smoke, it becomes a toast to the sun alone and exclusively. That's why the Galician Nationalist Block presents an amendment in which we propose that the Galician Parliament urges the Galician Union to incorporate into Galician public health service portfolio thermal hydrotherapy for those pathologies in which its effectiveness is demonstrated. After that incorporation, in case the capacity of thermal establishments so allows, from there come all the Europeans they want, whenever there is room for it to be so. We bring this amendment because, frankly, Mr. Santalices, in the presentation with a picture of the family, of you with Mr. President of the House of Ourense and with the candidates for ourense thermal villages, you dare say that "now we're upsetting this issue." Maybe they're starting to do something, what's missing is screw or screw, something's missing, because in four years they've done absolutely nothing about it. So if you had any seriousness and brought here this initiative with the will to turn it into some reality, of course...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u245	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u246	...it won't be the Galego Nationalist Block that prevents many Europeans from occupying thermal establishments, after they give the Greeks and Greeks the opportunity to have this treatment in public service, after they do so. And what you have to prove is a political will to make that so. And in four years they didn't prove it, nothing was done at all. With which I, allow me, jokes, spoil what you want, but start by putting on some screw, start by putting on some screw...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u247	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u248	...that supports and that thermal hydrotherapy is a reality in Galicia for the Greeks and the Greeks. From there...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u249	Thank you very much, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u250	...we'll talk about the next one, but do something, put on a screw.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u251	Joint Group, Mrs Iglesias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u252	Thank you, President. It's true, Galicia has a thermal wealth of the most important in Europe in terms of quality and also in terms of quantity, and Ourense in a special way. Our spas, our spas, our wells have a great prestige for the excellence of their waters and also of the facilities, as well as of the contours in which this thermal wealth is found. They're rich in sulfur. Sulfur properties improve the quality of life of patients with diseases... with respiratory, rheumatic and skin disorders. All these diseases affect the population of Greece in an important way. The anti-inflammatory and aseptic properties are also suitable for reducing inflammation and for combating diseases such as stress and insomnia. The president of Junta, Mr. Feijóo, stated at the time that the Government of Galicia was studying in collaboration with the Galaga Balnearia Property Association to include some of the thermal therapies that apply in the Welsh spas within Galician public health. "This initiative," said Mr. Feijóo, "to be carried out, would bring Galicia closer to the French model, which includes thermalism in public medicine," he said. In addition, including thermal therapy between public health services entails unquestionable advantages for all, and also for public health itself, because it provides health and relaxation in a completely natural way, prevents the side effects that can generate pharmaceutical products, such as, for example, we all know of the contraindications of anti-inflammatory drugs, sleeping pills, and it already counts for its implementation, so it would have a very low cost. Mr. Santalices, it's fair that the Greeks and the Greeks benefit, we benefit from a natural, natural and own wealth, which improves the quality of life and health. It would be a comparative aggravating and would be a comparative aggravating for Greek citizenship that citizens of other countries and other nations would benefit from natural good from the corresponding health system, while the population of Greece must pay – not in the wells, in the spas – for this therapeutic service. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u253	Thank you, Mrs Iglesias. Parliamentary Group of the Alternative Left Gallega, Ms. Eva Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u254	Thank you, President. We are faced with the typical banal-looking initiatives that the People's Party brings to the full, a well-heeded initiative, which we could have resolved in a Health Commission. And we already know all the opinions of the people who are part of this Hydrology Chair, because it is common for them to transfer their opinion through the media on the importance of thermal treatment or water treatment. And we certainly know from old that bathing and hydrotherapy is not a novelty, but that – as has already been said here – they are quite old, they have their usefulness in dermatological, rheumatological treatments or as other kind of adjuvant treatments or alternative and secondary therapies to other treatments. But it turns out, however, that the ability to attend centers where these treatments are provided or to receive these therapies with mineral-medicine water depends to a large extent on the purchasing capacity of people, because it is not considered – as it has been said here – in the portfolio of services of the Galician Health Service and therefore directly depends on the pocket of people who may come to these therapies, whether they can pay or not. I mean, if you have money, you can go to a spa and, if you don't, you can't go, because most of these centers, except for some exceptions, like some term, are centers that are obviously paid, especially if we talk about those where certain application techniques or certain circuits are applied, etc. Therefore, if we analyze the initiative, we can realize that it is not motivated by an interest in the health of Galicians and Greeks, but for the business of water centers through thermal tourism. This is clearly due to the partisan interests of the People's Party and the electoral campaign. Mr. Santalices and Mr. Baltar came out presenting this initiative in Ourense a few days and weeks ago, and therefore the interest it arouses is mere campaign propaganda, as has already been mentioned here in a previous intervention. The reality is that it does not subject any health proposals after this initiative, nor even for the health of Welsh people, who can really get the benefits of these therapies and can access them regardless of their own and their purchasing capacity or level of income, but what they ask for on the initiative is that in those places, countries, states where they have this benefit, they can enjoy it here, even though we cannot. It is interesting that for this reason the People's Party, which said that there was health tourism, does not mind facilitating tourism in this case other health systems to enjoy this thermal therapy that we are not able to enjoy by the Greeks and the Greeks. We, of course, are not against this extreme that other people come to these centres, because we understand that it can favour a certain host sector, but what we understand and reiterate is that this is a mere publicity of the People's Party in the election campaign, which does not seek any kind of health interest. We have to remember that even the non-healthy but social squares that exist for the centers themselves, spas and hydrotherapy centers, are cut year after year and that it is increasingly difficult through the Imsserso to access that kind of square. And we understand that this is another announcement that is not going to be referred to or implementing this type of service within the public health system, nor, of course, no longer talking about it as a evidently private benefit. So we're not going to vote in favour of this initiative, but we're not going to vote against it either, because we understand that this is not the place, it's not even an initiative that pushes for a health right or an interest in the health of the Galicians and the Greeks, but a mere announcement of an election campaign. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u255	Thank you. Socialist Group, Mrs Acuña do Campo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u256	Thank you, President. Good afternoon again, gentlemen. Mr. Santalices, as I ask you to respect the thermalism, for it is good enough to use it so favourably and so blatantly in each of the electoral campaigns. Besides, thermalism in the campaigns is worth the same for a tear as for a peel. That the candidate to the city of Ourense was the education advisor, for it is already: more education thermalism, and you get rid of the sleeve of professional training in thermalism. But in the face of the doubt that this measure or propaganda would be very confined to the occupant, to the figure of Mr. Jesús Vázquez, and would not reach Mr. Baltar, the president of the MP, also candidate, for they throw again into the People's Party of Mr. Santalices, so that he might bring back to this Chamber thermalism more sanity. But that's right, without costing them a lot. Sir, you come here to take your chest out with the ores and with our brooms, but without spending a hard time, and throwing balloons out. No duty comes to Galician Union, to Mr. Feijóo's Government, no, to the ministry. And he doesn't come to ask for the Greeks and the Greeks, as, of course, he made it loud and clear from the opposition, no, he comes here to ask I don't know, for the Hungarians, for the Germans, for the French, for the Portuguese, who will be grateful to him for helping them quit smoking. I'm sure you will, Mr. Santalices. Look, the Galego Nationalist Bloc reminded me – blessed heme! – of an intervention in a municipal campaign, the previous one, by Mr. Rosendo Fernández. I'll remind you of one of yours, Mr. Santalices, also in an election campaign, in the 2009 autonomics. At that time, you were saying the following, that government was demanding "thermal treatment financed by the public system, by Sergas, for all the people in whom it was indicated as an election treatment by the specialist." And not only that, but also that you wanted the Galego Health Service to fund the expenses derived from the stay and thermal treatment, and in case this was little about the displacements as well. You see, from the opposition to thermalism in public health to the whole of Galician citizenship; from the Government I fear that the only thing that you apply to the whole of Galician citizenship are the strawberries. Because, Mr. Santalices, with you in the government, not even health care in the public health system is for all citizenship, since you have lost your universal status. From the opposition to all the virtues of hydrotherapy treatment for the Greeks and the Greeks; from the Government thermalism and all its virtues for sale and reserved for others to enjoy. So, Mr. Santalices, less smoke and more real commitment to our people. Look, besides, what are we left with, what are we left with, Your Honor? If you really have the virtues of thermalism so clear, why do these seven years that are in front of the Government of the Union not increase your plan of thermalism that lends itself through the Imserso, but that – as has already been said here – they cut it year after year? What are we left with? Is thermalism good for the People's Party, if or new, or depends on who pays it? Look, in the press on April 29th, you could read: "Cospedal annihilates social thermalism by summoning 90% less...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u257	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u258	...of squares and 130% more expensive." By the way, he doesn't even care that they could really fit those treatments to the greatest and wealth and the job that that this activity does. I wonder, Mr. Santalices, if there isn't something behind this proposal. Will you not want to take away this allowance from the few older people in Galicia who are enjoying it through the Imserso to leave it to European citizens to pay for it? Of course, if it were, you should say it very clearly. Look, however, Mr Santalices, ladies and gentlemen, with regard to thermalism, we are going to support this initiative, even to the knowledge that it is only electoral smoke. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u259	Thank you, Mrs. Acuña. Group author of the non-law proposal. Mr. Santalices has the floor. Please give a voice to Mr. Santalices' chair.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u260	Thank you, Madam President. Well, I appreciate all the interventions. This is a medical subject, it's not a subject of candidates... now, if you want to take it to the subject of candidates... Ourense's candidate doesn't need to come here with any proposal because Ourense's candidate knows how to develop well in Ourense, and you'll see the results when the elections are held. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Don't confuse one thing with another. [[Applause]] I didn't speak at any time about Ourense, but if you put that bird on me, I won't let him escape, I'll have to talk about Ourense. [[Laughter]] Ourense, of course, is the thermal province par excellence and also leads investment in the subject of thermalism, which is a pity to the Provincial Deputy, who is currently presiding over it by Mr Baltar. That's true, but I didn't want to get into this. If you make that matter so easy for me, well, what do you want me to say? [[Murmurs.]] Look, I'm not going to dedicate this proposal to Dr. Luis Rodríguez Míguez. I was a student of him. All his life he's been fighting for the inclusion of thermalism and for potentiating the mineral-medicine waters; this was the feeling of the non-law proposition. And you seem a lie that you still don't see clearly that recognition for the inclusion in the basic portfolio of services is state competition. That's why, Mrs. Prado, I'm the only one I can – and it's already proposed, but we've reinforced it with your amendment – is to ask the ministry to include this as a health benefit within the service portfolio. But we must not take a step that is not our own competence. And, Mrs. Acuña, everything you said there that I said ratify it, how am I not going to ratify it, if I've been asking for this for years? I've been asking for this for years because I believe in thermalism! I don't think therapeutic thermalism! [[Murmurs.]] And you seem a lie that you're a doctor and that you're coming here today to snore with a story that has nothing to do with the properties of the thermal cure. The heat priest knows you're indicated in many cases. Let's not confuse ourselves, because this non-law proposition can serve a lot of things; to empower the spas... but it goes further, it's to boost the mineral-medicine waters, which, as Mrs. Iglesias has well said, in this Galicia leads, and Ourense especially; we have over 300 captures. So they don't escape reality. If you don't want to support this, don't support it. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And, careful, don't confuse what I've proposed here with health tourism, because I'm saying here are the ones that have included the service portfolio, but I'm asking for billing; we charge, not the other perverse health tourism where others come here...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u261	Finish, please, Mr. Santalices.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u262	Yes, of course! Look, we're not stupid, we're not! [[Madam Acuña do Campo speaks words that are not perceived.]] Or do you want the Swedish, Norwegian and so on...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u263	Finish, Mr. Santalices, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u264	...here do surgical interventions and let the Spanish father pay them? That's why I didn't happen. That's why I didn't.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u265	Thank you very much, Mr. Santalices.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u266	What we're asking for is a reasonable thing. Nothing else, Madam President. [[Applause]] G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. Together, at the initiative of Da María Consuelo Martínez García, on the demand of the Government of Greece to the Central Government for the transfer of skills in prison health to Galicia for its assumption by Sergas
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u267	This non-legislation proposal has been amended by the Socialist Group, the Galician Nationalist Bloc and the People's Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u268	You have the floor, to formulate the non-law proposition, Mrs. Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u269	I bring here an initiative that refers to and affects 65,000 people scattered throughout the state, the internal people in prison institutions that are outside the national health system. In the statement of reasons of the Decree of 5 July 1933 – that is, nothing modern – it was already collected that it is necessary to prevent prison health from forming a canton independent of the rest of state health, without any relation to provincial health institutions. The General Health Act of 25 April 1986 provides that the National Health System must include by express legal mandate, collected in the third final provision of the standard, the prison health subsystem. The present penitentiary regulation, in chapter I of its preamble, speaks of the need for the effective assumption of competence by the autonomous communities. Law 16/2003 of 28 May 2003 on the cohesion and quality of the national health system, in its additional provision 6th, establishes the obligation for the transfer of powers in the field of prison health and its subsequent integration into the respective autonomous health services. But, in addition, this health care has the general constitutional objective of protecting the health of the population that exceeds the prison area itself to enter the field of public health in order to predict and break the chain of transmissions of multiple diseases, on the one hand, and to carry a strict and necessary supervision of the treatments of some others. And he should also have as his objective the prevention and abolition of torture in prison. Suicides are the third cause of mortality in state prisons. WHO is associated with suicide with the rupture of social relationships and isolation and legal problems, among other matters. For some time we have seen complaints about the conditions of life and torture in the Greek prisons, before which the Greek Parliament addressed to the penitentiary institutions, transferring its concern about the living conditions of the inner people. Between May 2 and 3, 2014 a prisoner died in the isolation cell of Lama's penitentiary center. Eugenio was 48 years old, had been punished and had found the prison's management the letter from the lawyer of a group defending the rights of prisoners. It was not the first time that Eugenio received a punishment on the Lama; a four-week penalty closed for talking to a neighbor cell from the window; or 20 days of isolation for striking the cell door. They're such disproportionate measures that the only effect they have is to turn the prisoner into an alien or a rebel. A normal person can't live 20 days being alone and alone 24 hours. Reinaldo is one of those prisoners who have suffered life imprisonment for a long time before his existence is recognized in the Spanish punitive system by incorporating him to the Criminal Code. It's been in prison for 20 years and it's still classified as first grade. It took a long time without sanctions, but towards Christmas he was transferred to the isolation department without any formal charges. Your fellow module protested for that and delayed the time to start cleaning until the situation had been clarified. He was not there, he was in isolation, but the attitude of his fellows was qualified as a mutiny cone, and accused the Reinaldo of urging them to rebel. He was locked in the same cell where Eugenio died in unclarified circumstances and since the first day he received threats from some officials. Even the complaints filed by the family changed his cell, but he was notified of three very serious sanctions as a sponsor of a riot that never existed. He's subjected to a dynamic of permanent tension, locked in a cell without any of his belongings, constantly watched, pushed and threatened, when his wives put him out of the cell. Instead of giving him the opportunity to progress towards social reintegration, he's harassing him, reducing him to a desperate situation. Denunciations of malnutrition, abuse of power, torture, unhealthy conditions are constant in the Greek prisons. Several associations have denounced ill-treatment and torture in Lama and Teixeiro prisons and claim a prison shift to combat impunity for violating the fundamental rights of prisoners and prisoners, especially those who raise their voice. Representatives of Esculca and Lawyer New Vigo also refer to deaths in strange circumstances that Penitentiary Institutions deal with suicides or accident qualifications, and to the difficulties in being able to investigate from outside. The defense of a prisoner has no access, for example, to the copies of the recordings of the cameras installed in the isolation modules, and it gives cases where the prison addresses set obstacles so that they can see their clients. Both Esculca and Vigo's New Lawyers also report deficiencies in heating, food and healthcare within the Greek prisons, as well as overpopulation of centres, resulting in the delay of grade review resolutions with delays of up to one year. A paradigmatic example is that of the Gadite Javier Guerrero, a Lama prisoner on hunger strike since December, who ended on April 25, at this time had lost 20 kilos. His main demands were compliance with the prison regulations and respect for human rights, but he's still been resorting to xajun to protest for delay in the grade review resolutions. In his case they hadn't discounted him for three years that he spent in Zaragoza prison. This prisoner had restricted his visits to the Provincial Hospital in Pontevedra, where he had been admitted since January 5, where he was intervened from a kidney, and he can't get phone calls either. The detonator of his hunger strike was a sanction because in his cell there was a labelless musical apparatus, which resulted in the delegation of a permit to pass the New Year with his family. The other triggering was that he could not undergo surgery that he had scheduled because that day there was no police vehicle to transfer him to the hospital. In the BOE of 22 July 2006, ratification of the Optional Protocol to the Convention against Torture and Other Inhuman and Degrading Cruel Treatment and Punishment is required. The Spanish State has conferred on it the powers to prevent torture; in Spain, the Ombudsman, to carry out regular visits to prevent torture. Of course, there are possibilities for the Ombudsman to perform the functions he has delegated as a national preventive mechanism, since he can only investigate the complaints submitted. A few months ago, this honourable Member asked to visit a prisoner on hunger strike in Lama prison. After several calls to the Lama prison, waiting for an answer from the Ministry of the Interior, they state that the visit must be requested by the interior. When the insider asks for the visit, he is curiously transferred to a prison outside of Galicia. Recently, the Socialist Party called for a parliamentary delegation to visit each of Galicia's prisons in the face of multiple news. The Ministry of the Interior prohibited it – I let the Socialist Party explain, since it was written to them. Therefore, the colonial concept that the State has of Galicia is clear, but Galicia can and should use its powers and claim at least those that legally correspond to it. It is, therefore, a matter of complying with the legal obligation to protect the health of persons deprived of their liberty, a right that can never be limited by a sentence. And the health of the imprisoned population is a responsibility of the Galician Union. Only direct medical attention from the Galician Health Service to the imprisoned population can guarantee equity with the rest of Galician population and the prevention and defense of torture. We live in a rule of law, a democracy; it's not compatible with lynching, beatings and torture. Prison cannot be conceived as a revenge of society; prison must be an instrument for reintegration. In prison the human being loses his freedom, not only the freedom to go out and act in the world, he loses the freedom to be himself, to decide, to communicate with the world. In a real democracy where human beings are the foundation of their right, the imprisoned population enjoys the same rights to health as the rest of the population and the same level of protection of their privacy and constitutional rights. All the above, we are presenting this initiative; an initiative that wants to ensure that all the people in prison, all the prisoners and prisoners, have a quality of life and access to care for their health like any other person in our country. It is an obligation and therefore we hope that the People's Party will support this initiative. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u270	Thank you very much. Parliamentary groups that want to intervene? Galego Nationalist Block Group, Mrs. Prado Cores. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] There are three amendments, Mrs. Acuña, thank you. I'm a little careless today, but not so much, no, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u271	Good afternoon. The Galician Nationalist Block will support this initiative and we hope that it will have the support of the rest of the House's groups, because in June 2014 – but only one year ago – the BNG has already filed this request in Commission 5a, and unfortunately at that opportunity has not reached the popular party's favourable vote. The representative of the People's Party who defended the initiative, the non-voting favour—i.e., at that time, Mrs. Paula Prado, listened to the question that no autonomous community had claimed it, except for the Basque Country, and it did not seem reasonable—that the Galician claim when the other autonomous communities did not claim it—and it would be strange if Galician and non-Asturias did," said things like that, didn't it? He also said he was a lawyer because the situation had improved, but they weren't in a position to apply for the transfer. I hope, indeed, that the People's Party will change its opinion today and that it will be able to vote in favour of this initiative, that it does not demand anything other than that of persons deprived of their liberty, persons who are in prison, because they have health care in condition, and what was intended with that initiative today presented by the Joint Group – which is the same – is that the health of the internal people because they do not continue to depend on penitentiary institutions; that health care, the need for consultations, treatments, since it is not the prison officials who decide whether or not they are the medical care, but whether they are the optional ones, but those who are not dependent on the prison institution itself, but optional ones who are dependent on the Galician Health Service. It is not intended that the transfer should have beneficial effects on the health of the imprisoned population, with a high rate of infectious diseases; for example, more than 26% because they have HIV, in many cases contracted in prisons themselves; we can talk about the incidence of hepatitis C. And then maintaining the current situation, in addition to assuming failure to comply with a legal provision that binds the Executive and all public authorities, because it determines an additional conviction; i.e. human rights associations, in different accounts, because they have established that health care is not in condition would entail an additional conviction, right? Prisoners cannot access the right to health on equal terms than the rest of the population, because it is – I insist – that they increase their prison. There are statements by optional staff that mention that they have no access to medical records, that they cannot provide health care in condition. So BNG considers that the situation, aggravated, in addition to the cuts in the Ministry of Internal Affairs in prison health care, is a very substantial cut that means cutting pharmaceutical benefits, restricting access to certain therapies, has cut down optional shifts in prisons, i.e. certain conditions since they do not meet the minimum set. That is why we are going to support this initiative and we are presenting an amendment which we believe complements the proposal put forward by the Joint Group and which states, in addition to the proposed proposal, that the Joint Committee is urged to draft the transfer regulation, placing particular emphasis on the fact that the transfer of competence is not limited to human resources, but rather to the design of a health model where attention to this group is being paid on the public network, in its full integration into the Galician Health Service. What establishes legislation is that it must be the autonomous communities that apply for this transfer, which is on the roof of the Government of Galicia to request that transfer. You can do it as much as you like; that is, you could have done it since 2003. I think he has more than enough sorority, and I hope that today he who intervenes by the People's Party will not again have any bearing on what Mrs. Paula Prado has done at her moment: to say that she could do the bipartisan at her own time. Well, the bipartite hasn't done it, and since 2003 it's been twelve years, we think we're at a time more than enough to...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u272	Finish it, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u273	...that the German Government is asking for this transfer, that it is only in his hands to do so, it is not up to the Ministry to accept it, but it is already approved by the law that allows it to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u274	Thank you very much, Mrs. Prado. Socialist Parliamentary Group. You have the word to Mrs. Acuña do Campo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u275	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen. Well, although he doesn't like the Ministry of the Interior to talk about it, something must be going on in jail. What for our group began to be a concern about a complaint received from an association that works for human rights because today, with the Government's behavior, the truth is that this concern has been increasing. For more than a year, the first allegations have been made that the cuts from the People's Party have also reached the prisons, substantially worsening the living conditions of prisoners and prisoners. So I myself, together with another Member of my group, because we have transferred our interest in visiting the institution and checking on site whether or not these allegations are true. And there we met, ladies and gentlemen, with the first refusal, based on the fact that because of our condition as honourable Members I was obliged to make a more formal request. So we did, but today we have not received an answer, so, in the face of this initial refusal and the subsequent silence, we decided to visit through the Government Delegation, a body that has raised our request to the Ministry of the Interior, which has just answered us by denying the visit to prisons located on the territory of Greece to two Members of this House, claiming that we are neither deputies nor senators in Congress. I'll leave the documentation to the Madam President at the end of this debate. We wonder if the prisons may have borders, borders that do not prevent them from incarcerating the Greeks and the Greeks, but which, however, do prevent people from visiting them, to know first-hand the conditions in which the people in prison live. Or maybe this negative is because conditions have deteriorated so much the better they don't know each other. That might explain the increase in hunger strikes and even suicides. Ladies and gentlemen, the Socialist Parliamentary Group has submitted an application for a visit to prisons through the Bureau of the 5th Commission and the 1st Commission. We hope that, institutionally speaking, the Ministry of the Interior will recapitulate and authorize this visit in respect of this House. Otherwise, they will force us to continue to insist, through the Bureau of Parliament, on the government itself and even on the People's Valedor. The Socialists are going to support this request by the Joint Group today to comply with the health law, but in addition, we are presenting a amendment – which we hope will be accepted – calling for prisoners and prisoners to be sentenced in Galicia to immediately have the new treatment of hepatitis C, and under the same requirements that apply to other people, and to be found in the Plan strategic vigilant. In Spain there are about 65,000 people in prison, and some 21% of them are carriers of hepatitis C virus, but in 2013 only 2.8% of those patients received treatment. We imagine that it might be going through now with the price so high that they have the new drugs, when they were already applying cuts to treatment for hepatitis C when these were much more economical. Between 2012 and 2013, the budget...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u276	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u277	...–remato– for the treatment of hepatitis C in prisons has fallen by more than 26%. I'm done asking you not to treat people differently, that people in prison have the same right, and we can't generate people first and second. So we hope that our amendment will be accepted, and that the people who are in prison who are ill with hepatitis – I insist – will immediately have that treatment, which, by the way, will have to be taken over by the Ministry of the Interior, at least until the law is complied with and they enter fully into the public health system. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u278	Thank you very much. People's Group. Mr. Santalices Vieira.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u279	Thank you, Madam President. We are also going to support this non-law proposal, and, in addition, in this sense also announce that we, like all groups, have had a meeting with Esculca, and I think that a non-law proposal has been agreed upon, signed by all groups, in which we focus on improvements in infrastructure within prisons and also that somehow they have improved the eating habits of the imprisoned population. This, I think, is a good thing to remember. In fact, the General Health Act, as a glutinator that was on its day, also includes prison health, which should be included as a coverage system, and that also includes the Health Cohesion Act of 2003, in which it is even said that in transfer processes it must be the autonomous communities to which this service is transferred that implement the coverage of prison health. Of course, we all know that there are human resources within prison health, but in this sense we present an amendment, because we are going a little further, and this transfer, in accordance with it, must be accompanied by the economic and material means necessary to meet the provision corresponding to this service. It has been said here that we are talking about that in certain prisons because there are far more frequent pathologies – I think it was Mrs Prado who mentioned it –: HIV, hepatitis, even tuberculosis. Well, this sense generates attention that we all have to say that, as you well know, it's expensive, and that this doesn't mean that it stops lending, but that in some way it has to be lent. And the problem begins to arise when you have to attend, not in the prison modules, because there's no problem there, doctors and the nursing staff attend perfectly; the matter comes when you need to attend hospitals; in hospitals there are few hospital modules and there are special conditions for the attention of this population. That's why we have, in some way, decided to transfer all that, and I think that, in addition, this seems reasonable to us. Health is funded, as you know, funding for protected populations, but here we're talking about a population that even many of it is not even assigned to the autonomous community itself, but of course having the rights to attention. I, man!, obviously, Mrs. Acuña, the amendment you make, because, well, I'm not able to pronounce myself on that amendment, but I give for the fact that here no one questions that, when talking about the treatment of hepatitis C drugs, includes all the population, whether they are prisoners or not prisoners. Please, I would honestly not put it, I would not; I give by the fact that here we are speaking of attention to people. So, our amendment goes in that sense, that we support the transfer, but in some ways, we suggest that it comes with the means and resources needed to be able to pay attention not only to the prison module – let us say – but also to the attention that should be given to those inmates who need hospital care – which is where the problem really is – and that must be accompanied by funding. We're going to support this non-law proposal. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u280	By Alternative Left Galeg has the word Mrs. Eva Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u281	Thank you, President. Surely the health of men and women trapped in our country and in the state as a whole does not seem to be one of the priorities of this government. Diseases, as already mentioned here, in prisons have much greater impact than in the rest of society, above all when we talk about rates of morbidity, mortality related to some infectious diseases, as can be – and has already been named here – hepatitis C, AIDS or mental health problems, even the rate of suicides or drug abuse. Strings, of course, the prison system, unfortunately, are not designed in most cases to allow for reintegration. When we talk about that most of the imprisoned population is made up of common prisoners and prisoners who, in addition, have facilitated social measures and even health measures that facilitate such social reintegration, in many cases they are affected by systems that perpetuate an environment of inequality, even of drug trafficking or even of lack of means that promote this insertion. There are ways to privatize, but there seems to be no means to improve the real situation of the imprisoned population and of workers and public workers. Some associations and collectives – as mentioned by previous speakers – have denounced ill-treatment, diet or inadequate food – which is another way of mistreating – and failure to comply with the rights of access to health of prisoners. Failure to comply, for example, with Mrs Soledad Becerril's own report, which is not for any reason left-wing, which denounces precisely the difficulty, the inequality in access to certain pharmaceutical treatments, as may also be the case, for example – and it has been named here – of the new treatments for hepatitis C. It denounces Mrs Becerril that there are people arrested with prescribed treatments who are not receiving the said treatments, saying, moreover, that the economic amount should satisfy the autonomous communities, but these are the ones who refuse to take up precisely those costs, Mr Santalices, so Mrs Becerril herself asked the prison institutions to take care of the treatments. We're talking about 21% of the imprisoned population having the hepatitis C virus and 27.5% having HIV-AIDS as well. According to the report, I was accessing these treatments only 2.8% of the susceptible prison population, something that confirmed the Spanish Prison Health Society itself. It seems that it had to be – I think it was incredible – that the Ministry of the Interior itself decided to have a small share – small – to buy some treatment of that drug, Sovaldi, which you decided not to have access to a generic – a political measure, a political decision that you made, the Central Government of the People's Party – when we understand that this access should be standardised for all the arrested people who have prescribed it. Why are those people left out? Well, since you've denied the biggest one here, to me it's actually something very serious to me. Why is there EUR 33 million to privatize the external security of prisons but there is no interest precisely in health care, in the health of prisoners, and no interest in the Ministry of Health financing access to hepatitis C treatments? Man! for those are questions that must be clarified. Three weeks ago, in committee, I asked myself about the treatments and access of hepatitis C treatments in the imprisoned population, and Mr. Rubial, director of Health Care, today Chuvi's manager...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u282	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u283	...he denied my answer, he didn't want to answer. Quiet. It seems that the interests of the imprisoned people seem to remain second. This group has also claimed to be able to enter these penitentiary institutions. Since we are in this Parliament, once a year we ask for a visit to the penitentiary institutions and each year we are denied that visit. Subsequently to those denials, what we did was to transfer the request through the Ministry, but unfortunately we were also denied this request for a visit, because it considers that only Members and Members of the Congress of Deputies and Members can enter. And, therefore, we obviously understand that this is an obstacle in the exercise of our duties as Members. And we also understand that prisoners have to have a guaranteed right to health, just like the rest of the citizenship, because of human rights. And obviously we're going to vote in favour of this non-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u284	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. Group author of the non-law proposal. You have the floor to Mrs. Martínez. Give Mrs. Martínez a voice, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u285	Thank you, President. First, thank you for the support of all groups for this initiative, which I think is very important for the prisoner population of Galicia, because the imprisoned people have to maintain, have to have and must guarantee them their right to dignity, their right to health, their right to communicate, their right to receive visits to the hospital and their right to defend their own rights. It's hard enough to be arrested, deprived of liberty and affection, it's not a receipt to make your step through jail any more difficult. As for the amendments, I accept the amendment of BNG; I think it completes the text of the initiative. The amendment of the Socialist Party accepts; I don't think it's any more likely that this imprisoned population has the same right to access to a new drug, face, and that it's giving even problems of access to non-prisoners, and therefore I think it is important to explicitly collect it. As for the amendment of the People's Party, I propose a transaction, because the amendment of the People's Party conditions the transfer to which it is accompanied by an economic approach, of the economic means. I accept it as a second point, where, in addition to asking for the transfer of competences, if I also ask for the accompaniment, for which it would remain: "It is necessary to address the Government of the State to transfer the economic and material means in view of the dynamic supply of the corresponding service", that is, without conditioning the economic part or the first operative part with the economic part. So, nothing but thank you for it, and we hope the People's Party will accept the transaction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u286	Well, if they do the deal, I ask them to bring the Bureau up if there's any kind of agreement. We continue with non-law proposals. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. People in Galicia, at the initiative of Mr. Javier Dorada Soto, on the action to be taken by the Government of Greece to improve the curricular skills of young people through non-formal education programmes
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u287	This motion for a non-law amendment was tabled by the Parliamentary Group of the Glaga Alternative of the Left and the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u288	You have the floor to make the non-law proposition Mr. Javier Dorado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u289	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, gentlemen. The initiative we bring to this Parliament today is not a fruit of improvisation, nor is it an isolated measure, it is part of a plan, a plan that aims to break one of the greatest problems we have today in Galicia and Spain: the high rate of youth unemployment we are suffering from. I mean, with initiatives like the ones we're presenting here today, we're trying to improve the employability of youth as a whole. How do we understand if we improve the employability of youth? Well, we stand out five big axes. The first of them is complete and quality training, with better content and better planning; the second, greater professionalization and greater multilingual competition, multilingual in English, Spanish and, of course, in other foreign languages – such as English, French or Portuguese –; the third, growth and personal development, which we consider essential; the fourth, public policies that promote job creation; and finally – and no less important – the empowerment of formal education, which is the education that is not in books and which, of course, focuses this initiative. This is not the first time that we have discussed, the initiative of this group, proposals of this kind. We have already talked about a transversal youth strategy, such as the 2015 Youth Strategy; we have proposed in this House the development and approval of a Youth Employment Plan by the Galician Council; we are talking about the promotion of entrepreneurial capacity in students, schools and study centres; and of course we are also talking about the promotion of the entrepreneurial spirit between youth; and we are already ahead of them that this will not be the last one in this sense. Luckily, the Galician Union made a wise decision to reformulate the fundamental axis that centers on the activity of the Youth and Volunteer General Directorate, which until the entry of the new Government focused on leisure, leisure and leisure activities, and which is now focused on the search for a better employability of youth, in this case in the young people of Greece. And fortunately, it's not only the goal of a general leadership, it's an objective of an entire government, of the entire Government of Galician Union. And then you can talk about the call of the Youth Interdepartmental Commission, you can talk about a Youth Employment Plan with more than 150 million euros; you can finally talk about a lot of measures in many areas aimed at a single goal: improving employability in youth. Moreover, the results support this policy. Galicia is the autonomous community of all Spain where unemployment fell most in the last year, in 2014, exactly over 21%; that is, of 16,700 unemployed people we started in 2014 under 25 years today – in December 2014 Galicia was 13,100 – still less. This means 15 points less than the national average and 22 points less than some systems, than some regimes, that some governments today are represented and that govern in some autonomous communities, as is the case with Andalusia, which in this case was the only autonomous community in all of Spain where unemployment grew in 2014. That's why we consider it essential to deepen that path, to deepen those measures that gave their fruit, to deepen those measures that gave young people opportunities. There are still 13,000 boys under the age of 25 who have no opportunities, and this and other measures and initiatives will deal with them. Today we've come to talk about informal education. Non-formal education is a phenomenon that is incipient, which is transforming the curriculum experience of youth throughout Europe and where Galicia is in a pioneering position, a pioneering position that is reflected in the Youth Act adopted in this House in 2012, which has as its main focus the participation of youth in society and which also promotes training outside books – although this was obviously more important – in this case through non-formal education. Non-formal education, which we consider to be the link between the most modern and innovative policies in Europe and which are already being recommended in different areas of the European Union, such as the Youth Forum, as is the European Commission and even the European Parliament. That's why we consider youth participation essential in those programs that can develop values, values that we consider fundamental to the development of a more prepared and trained youth, values such as group work, responsibility and communication, the sense of initiative and self-confidence; also, to improve their curriculum, to increase their language competence, their ability to assume responsibilities and their criterion when making decisions. Figures show that non-formal education programs already set in motion, such as Leonardo da Vinci's, gave more than 70% employability to those who were part of it. That's why we believe it's important to continue to deepen on this line. And also a greater employability, which was made through the establishment of an official certification regulation, of non-formal education experiences, as this House has asked the Government of Galicia to take part in these features, and that today those girls and young people who have participated and participate in such experiences have the possibility to include it in their curriculum through an official certification that sends out the Galician Board and gives them more options for employability. Also, a commitment that is not only seen in activities, it is also seen in budgets. And for that, it has to be pointed out that today, in 2015, the Galician Union has allocated 2.5 million euros for these programs; that is, 25% more than it was targeted in 2014. And the beneficiaries have also increased; in this case, 4,000 young people will be able to benefit from the current programming for the year 2015 proposed by the Galician Union, which is 53% more than they could in 2014. And, of course, this is not just an axis where the Galician Union has to be affected, but there are also other social agents who have to play a key role in developing these programs, as is the case with universities. And so, from here on, we want to thank the University of Santiago de Compostela for signing an agreement to evaluate the benefits of informal education and all the programs launched in Galicia; by the way, a study that we will carefully look at, their conclusions, their benefits and their prejudices, to try to improve their programming towards the next editions. And also another very important agent, which we have to involve to a greater extent: local entities, both local and municipal associative tissue, which must have a greater involvement in this kind of program, in which, of course, from this year onwards, they have a greater protagonist through games that are already reflected in budgets, in this case of 600,000 euros, and which will give them the chance that many youth and youth service providers will be able to have a project that can achieve this evaluation. It is fair – another axis – to highlight programs that have so far been successful, as is the case with the Youth Initiative program, a program that has been carried out for years and has a very important impact on the whole of youth. And I say this because it's over €550,000 – I'm sorry, I'm a little overcrowded – to those who are given the possibility of a total of 150 projects to be funded through the budget of the Galician Union; a total of 700 boys have been participating in the last year, and we hope that this year will be more. Also a youth volunteer service, which allows the incorporation of young people between 16 and 30 years of age, to incorporate programs that are more than 300 in 2014, and that can also believe this certification that is so important to your curriculum. The Galeuropa programme, a programme of aid for transnational mobility projects under 25 years of age, which is already in the process of implementing unpaid training practices in companies in European countries, strengthening reality, strengthening competences and improving the duration of practices for two to three months, with a total budget for the period 2015-2020 of 6.9 million euros. We could talk about Erasmus+ app. We could talk about the summer campaign, which has become a truly focused campaign on youth employability, or a program that I would like to highlight, which is the program Teaching your future, which is a way of bringing the young people of Greece closer to the socio-workplace, which has been done experimentally with 16 young people in 2014 but that this year will already be able to be carried out for more than 750 young people, with an amount of EUR 130,000 in their budget. Finally, we believe it is important that the Union...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u290	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u291	...from Galicia and its budget acclimatize to Galicia's new socio-worker reality, which is that the human resources of companies no longer seek titles, seek skills, seek commitment, seek responsibility. And programs like those we're proposing on this initiative give young people these possibilities. That is why we believe it is important that the initiatives in this House should be approved with the greatest possible consensus. And besides, to complement what is already done so far, we need a more comprehensive programming, which involves more agents, not only the Union, not only universities, but also different municipalities, and hence this initiative goes directly to other financial institutions – sorry – to other public institutions, so that in this way young people and girls can also have the opportunity to participate in municipal programs in the development of skills and skills that will improve their employability. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u292	Thank you. Intervention of parliamentary groups. For the Galician Nationalist Block, Mr. Pombo Rodríguez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u293	Thank you, President. Good afternoon to all and to all. The People's Parliamentary Group again brings a non-law proposal adapted to the May, the flower month, the electoral month. I know this non-law proposal wants to deepen non-formal education, because it can serve as a means of improving the curricular skills of our country's boys and girls in order to increase their employability. I see the most modern and innovative youth policies across Europe go through informal education as a means of improving the curricular competences of young and young Germans, to facilitate the employability of our young people. The BNG, of course, disagrees. You don't understand our boys' employability going through this. For first of all, Galicia has already, as Mr. Dorado said, a Youth Law, in which they unified all the rules it was dispersed, which strengthened its transversality with all the councils, with the university and with the municipalities. They have come to an informal education in which they plan with short, medium and long-term integrality, transversal to all tutiple, universal, in which equality is sought, in which emancipation is sought, in which they seek to be established in close proximity to young people, in which there is continued information, and even the Galega School of Youth has been established as a body specialized in non-formal education on issues related to youth, enrolled in the Institute of Youth of Galicia, which develops the annual programme of courses and training activities and which provides training activities that are strategic and innovative in relation to annual programming. Well, despite all this, ladies and gentlemen, despite informal education, we all know the employability of our youth. Of course, for the BNG, the fundamental problem is to guarantee the quality of compulsory basic education, including post-war education and access to university; that's the best thing about it. But, curiously, the People's Party on this subject only makes cuts in teachers, cuts in budgets, cuts in teachers' training in access to equal opportunities, continuous cuts, cuts in R & D+i; that is, on the one hand, what is fundamental, and now they come here talking about non-formal education. Unfortunately, for us the problem of our youth is not there. The problem of our youth is that of emigration; emigration, unfortunate problem of our youth that is not based on lack of qualification. Unfortunately, in the Feijóo Government, from 2009 to today, 146,963 – data from the Galego Institute of Statistics – Thursdays emigrated from our country, 25% of today's population in this country. And, curiously, the university itself is reporting that our brains also escape, but not 25%, but 50%. So it's not about training, it's about emigration, it's about a problem that our country can't take on youth. So it seems to us very well, I have nothing against formal education, but we tabled an amendment to go to the millionth of the matter, to seek the real employability of our youth. That is why we propose a replacement amendment in which the Galician Parliament urges the Government of Galicia to mark as strategic targets that young Germans and young people can live and work decently in Galicia, setting out the following measures: First. Active employment policies put in place...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u294	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u295	...for young people, setting up a specific programme for guidance, training and retraining. Second. Compliance with the European Commission's recommendation on youth guarantee for persons under 25 years of age to receive a good job offer, continuing training or practice within a period not exceeding four months of unemployment or completion of regular training. Third. Development of a plan of measures for the return of young emigration, through training mechanisms, placement and self-employment or undertaking activities that potentiate the Italian productive tissue, its strategic sectors, the R & D+i, or those that allow the exploitation of new employment deposits. Finished, President. We hope that if we take this amendment into consideration to reverse the dramatic situation of the young people of Greece, to reverse the dramatic situation of our country, which, if we do not put a remedy on our own, we are on our way to our demographic suicide. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u296	Thank you very much, Mr. Pombo. Parliamentary Group of the Left Galician Alternative. You have the word of Mr. Ramón Vázquez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u297	Well, good afternoon to all and to all. Well, I'd like to begin my intervention by making some terminology clarification, and I say this because there is ambiguity in drafting this initiative, and also in the explanatory statement that made the person who intervened in the People's Group name, because they bring more confusion than of course certain, right? Because the distinction between formal, non-formal and informal education is part of an already classical publication in the field of pedagogy, made by Coombs, in 1967, a work entitled "The Global Education Crisis" – a global education crisis, the year 67, we did where we are now. In that work, Coombs spoke of formal education as the one that took place within the educational system that goes from compulsory education to university. And it referred to non-formal education – and so it is understood in the pedagogical field, in the educational field, in the scientific field – such as that organized by specific institutions outside the school framework, linked to permanent training, to adult education, etc. This training, non-formal education, is characterized by great organizational flexibility, media diversity, diversity of materials, diversity of times, diversity of places, and covers fundamental areas such as early childhood care, literacy programs, health education, training for work, permanent education. And finally, a third area – not less important – that is informal education, which is the one that occurs through the socialization of the individual in contact with the family environment and friends, the media, social networks, reading, cinema, leisure, sports, etc. And I think you have a tremendous mess between these three concepts: formal education, informal education and informal education. I make this distinction – I insist – the risk of being pedicant, but it's that your explanatory statement confuses, and also confuses the resolution part. I don't know if they want informal education to be a process of replacing obligations that correspond to formal education through modes of distance learning, through the use of new technologies. I don't know if they want to outsource specific functions of the education system, because when they refer to the acquisition of curricular skills, they are specific to the education system and they cannot be delegated, of course, in areas of informal education. That's why, from our point of view, it's essential to bring about initiatives, more when they are of importance, of silence than they intend to be. For the Gaga de Left Alternative Group, it is very important, of course, to be needed when talking about educational terminology. You spoke in your intervention of improving young people's employability. When called employability, the test load is placed on the subject; it is responsible for using and subtracting all responsibility from the economic system in which the subject is immersed. It is therefore already fulfilling the lack of functions with which this initiative is presented. He talked about improving the curricular skills of young people and girls, something that from our point of view lets us detect tremendously perverse intentions, because it cannot be left in the hands of non-formal education the acquisition of curricular content; that is the obligation of the public education system. I – I insist – I think you have a cocoa of umo and lomo; you listen to the bells coming from Europe about competitiveness, employability and all this anti-pedagogical and anti-educational terminology and...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u298	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u299	...incorporate her to her vocabulary. It's not clear what they're talking about. Are you talking about continuing training? What are your ways; are you talking about training courses for the unemployed?Are they talking about accreditation of new competences? We have serious doubts. That's why we made an amendment that only aims to bring about concreteity, from then on also the resources of formal education to, of course, be employed within and for the benefit of the whole community, and that's exactly our amendment. What we want is to take advantage of the potential of educational centres to benefit the community in which they are immersed, to use educational centers as dynamizers of cultural, social, sports life of the community, and to establish a complementary programming in educational centers that allows the realization of leisure and leisure activities, activities of sociocultural animation...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u300	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u301	..., community development activities, cultural and sports activities, especially in the non-compulsory education stages, since it is at the most advanced ages when it is more difficult for young people...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u302	Thank you very much, Mr Vázquez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u303	...and the girls to access her. Let's hope it's assumed. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u304	Joint Group. Mrs. Churches.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u305	Thank you, President. In the knowledge society, learning truly transcends the scope of formal education. The non-formally limited educational precepts, that is to say, as the previous intervener said, in the 1960s, are of paramount importance, since they establish education for all, educational continuity, and I mean also in maturity, because this initiative is directed only to young people, and informal education has to cover all kinds of people. Cognitive development promotes the follow-up of education, the alternation of study and work, relationships between school and employment, training of professionals in education and the collaboration of the family and the environment. The rise in informal education has different origins, but the most important are child protection, education, equal opportunities and solidarity. As this term is very wide, I adhered to my intervention to one of its multiple applications, which are the informal education services that deal with children and children when the classes and mothers and parents are still at work. They are a very important resource for the parents and also for the daughters, because they help the parents to combine work with family life and offer children and children games, company and cultural activities. In the countries of the European Union, these services have different names and different degrees of emphasis. In some members these services are well developed, but in others they are not even programmed, despite the important support they have for family life. The preamble to the Convention on the Rights of Children says that these centres can be considered necessary for the growth and well-being of all their members, particularly children, and that the family can fully assume its responsibilities within the community. Non-formal quality education centres help to develop girls and also protect them from some risks that they would have to face without that attention; they expand the social world and promote their relationships in a more free way than school, providing them with the opportunity to relate to adults who are neither teachers nor progenitors and who can give them different social models. They plan artistic and cultural activities and raise awareness of the risks of tobacco, alcohol, unsafe sexual relations, in addition to protecting them against physical and social risks to which they can be exposed. To reconcile work with the education of children and children and easier in some countries of the European Union than in others, for example in France and Denmark. There are several aspects that have an important role in non-formal education: the duration and arrangement of working hours and schoolchildren, the duration of school and work holidays, the role that school can play in caring for children out of school hours, and the provision of informal education centres, play and recreation. There are many political options regarding informal education, and many differences between policies in different countries, and Galicia is not well stopped, because, according to contrasted studies, there are no signs of development of informal education. In most European countries, these services are provided within the welfare system. Galician office does not highlight this advisorship in managing the services on which it has its competence. And with regard to the level of training of educator staff, they vary considerably. In France, Germany and Finland, qualification levels are high...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u306	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u307	...while Galicia needs hardly a degree. Add here my concern because volunteering doesn't hide what the free hand would be. Unformal education must therefore count on planning to achieve goals by analyzing needs, learning goals, content, methods, techniques, educational results, and evolution and evaluation. The generality, both of the exhibition text and of the resolution text, makes me have doubts. So I'm going to wait until the debate is over to position myself on this GNP. Thank you very much. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u308	Thank you, Mrs Iglesias. Socialist Group. You have the floor to Mrs Gallego Calvar.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u309	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. When Mr. Dorado began his intervention, I thought – I thought he clarified it and said he had a little flu access, I hope he recovered soon – that he was a bit fascinated by the initiative he was bringing, but soon I realized that it was not, that it was a health problem, and I really hope he recovered. I say this because this initiative brought today by the People's Party on the quota to be taken by the spokesperson for youth, because it says – as someone does not read the resolution – more or less: The Galician Parliament urges the Galician Council to focus on the implementation of other programmes where informal education can serve as a means to improve the curricular competences of young people and girls. All right. And then will the Government of Galicia not be able to ask these questions and that informal education can be introduced into the curricular competences of young people and girls without the agreement of all groups of this House? Will the Government of Greece, with the mandate of the majority of the people of Greece, not be able to carry out such a policy, which you will need to bring here to have the agreement of all Members of this House? Well, look, you know what's going on? That this is one more of the PP, but not the People's Party, but advertising and propaganda. Because the honourable Member, in his speech, spoke of the initiatives being taken by the German Government, both the Youth Directorate and the rest of the departments, in matters of youth policy. Of course, all those data or program names, which sound like big and bloating, have forgotten to put aside the figures of budget execution. For example, the honourable Member spoke to us very excitedly about a programme that was launched on 10 April. Help for a program called Design your future was published in the Official Journal of Galicia. It's a program directed both to municipalities and non-profits. The budgetary application dedicated to local entities for this year 2014, EUR 85,000. Budget application for non-profit entities for 2014, 45,000 euros. And then it says: If there are any remaining credits in one of the items indicated in the previous point, you can redeploy the remaining accounts in another. Of course, with two budget splits of one count so important to design the future of Galician boys and girls, probably about, indeed, one game so that the remnant can move on to the other. But they don't end advertising and propaganda here. We can also talk about the Youth Service Programme for the Youth of the Budgets of the Autonomous Community, which has been cut by no less than 34% since Mr Feijóo's reign, or in relation to the year 2010, which is the first full budget Mr Feijóo made. Or we can also talk about how in all the programs dedicated to employability they stopped using, for example last year. More than 58 million euros. More than 58 million euros not running last year, when we have the data we have on youth employment! And now we're going to data and reality, because, if there's a collective where the consequences of this economic crisis are becoming more alarming and negative, of course it's in the youth of Greece, despite all the propaganda and publicity of Mr. Feijóo's Government. Because look, the juvenile unemployment rate...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u310	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u311	...between 16 and 29 years has increased by 60% since 2010 to the present. And the employment or occupation rate dropped by almost 30%. But that's not the worst thing, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, the worst thing is that the youth collective has a degree of social protection for unemployment that is only around 15%; that is, 9,000 young people have some benefit, compared to 56,000 without it. Not to mention the 45 girls who leave Galicia every day because here they have no chance of the future. And you, gentlemen of the People's Party, speaking of the introduction into the curricular competences of young people and girls to informal education. Well, of course it is! but this is not, of course, the problem of our country's boys and girls. Look, for that, from the Socialist Parliamentary Group, we have brought to this House a number of initiatives to create a youth employment plan, both in the debate on the state of autonomy and in the amendments to budgets...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u312	Finish it, Mrs Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u313	...and you, commitment to figures, deadlines and concrete targets, zero; propaganda and publicity, all over the world.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u314	Thank you, Mrs Gallego. Group author of the non-law proposal. Mr. Dorado Soto has the floor. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Sorry, you have no voice. Please give a voice to Mr. Dorado's chair.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u315	Thank you very much, President. The truth is, it's amazing what we just heard in this House. It's really amazing to see how a representative of the Socialist Party comes here talking about budgetary implementation. I don't know if you know, Mrs Gallego, that in the Vigo Council there was an budget of 300,000 euros for youth employment, of which only 30,000, 30,000 euros were executed! [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u316	Mr. Tellado, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u317	Not about 10% of the budget you've predestined for youth employment. And yet the mayor of Vigo has to manifest himself on May 1 by the day of work. [[(By order of the President, and in the light of Rule 106(3) of the Rules of Procedure, this expression is withdrawn from the Journal of Sessions.)]] That's unfortunate.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u318	Mr. Golden. [[Murmurs.]] Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u319	It's regrettable.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u320	Mr. Golden. Mr. Dorado, please. Do the favor. [[Murmurs.]] Excuse me, I'm talking to Mr. Dorado, please! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] But can I talk to Mr. Dorado? Do the favor, Mr. Fajardo, see if you're wearing another rebound. [[Murmurs.]] Mr. Dorado, Mr. Dorado... please let me speak! Mr. Dorado, I call you by order and I ask you to remove those expressions. Do the favor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u321	I remove the expression, I'm sorry. It has to manifest itself on the day... [[(By order of the President, and in the light of Rule 106(3) of the Rules of Procedure, this expression is withdrawn from the Journal of Sessions.)]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u322	Mr. Dorado, Mr. Dorado, Mr. Dorado... I pray you with respect to this House and the institutions, please! and I ask you to remove absolutely all offensive concepts. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Mr. Fajardo, I'm talking to Mr. Dorado. [[Murmurs.]] Mr. Dorado, continue.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u323	Well, he's got a face... the word "roster" is all right, isn't it? He has the face of expressing himself on May 1st per day of employment, when he does not really apply even 10% of the budget he has for youth employment. [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] Even so, Mrs. Gallego, I'm going to show you a graph of the evolution of youth unemployment in 2014. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Here's Galicia, it was the head of the youth unemployment drop in 2014. Here's your model, Andalusia, the only autonomous community in all of Spain where youth unemployment grew. [[Murmurs.]] What's your model, Mrs. Gallego? [[Murmurs.]] Ours is this one, yours this one. Youth unemployment lessons, none, Mrs Gallego. [[Applause]] With regard to amendments, I would first like to thank, of course, the work of the amending groups. Of course, you are grateful to this parliamentary group, but both the Galician Nationalist Block and the AGE Group distort the essence of the amendment. In the case of the Galego Nationalist Block, it refers to the Youth Employment Plan and the European Union Youth Guarantee Program, and both of them are already applying, both of which have been explained here by the Labour and Welfare Adviser. So we do not really see the coherence of having this amendment on this initiative. And as far as the AGE initiative is concerned, of course, we wanted to do exactly the opposite, it was to try to focus on the policy of Youth Directorate General in improving youth employability. And now I'll explain to you what the concept of employability is to me. The concept of employability for me is that a young man, when he goes to look for a job, has more opportunities and has better conditions to do it, and for me that can be done from the Unity of Galicia. That is why I bring you to this House and I hope that all parliamentary groups will support you. And, of course, Mr. Pombo, if I'm going to tell you one thing: this parliamentary group has four 26 initiatives in this plenary. I think at least there's no bite here, we don't consider it. But when a group of 41 Members have four initiatives, and yet the opposing groups are here misdirecting the concept of initiatives, I think it's not fair and I think we also have a right. So much so that we speak of mordaza, when a group of 41 Members really has 4 initiatives and the rest has 22, it speaks a lot about democracy and the plurality of this Parliament, which in no case has any bite, for either one or another. Nothing more and thank you very much. [[Applause]] G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr José Antonio Sánchez Bugallo and two other Members, on the actions to be taken by the Government of Greece in connection with the aid for the grant of loans to housing holders in the national housing plans
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u324	Please, please be quiet and I'd like to... [[Murmurs.]] Please take a seat. Please be quiet. This non-legislation proposal was presented with an amendment to the Galician Nationalist Block.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u325	Mr. Sánchez Bugallo has the floor to make it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u326	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good afternoon again, gentlemen. We are going to talk about this issue, which is the fourth time you come to this House on the initiative of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and I think it must be the fifth, sixth or seventh that comes in total. So it's a subject that is well known and that I hope this time I can achieve some kind of consensus. The question is raised in 2012, starting with Royal Decree 20/2012. It is a decree of economic measures which, in Article 35, contains a provision which states that from the entry into force of this decree the grant aid for loans contained in the Royal Decree 2066/2008 is abolished, so the State Plan for Housing and Rehabilitation 2009/2012 is regulated. Surprisingly, on a double footing, it is surprising that, by means of a decree, the conditions of national housing plans approved by previous laws are retroactively modified, and surprisingly even more so, because while the decree only nullifies a national housing plan, which is 2009-2012, by means of an interpretative instruction issued by the Ministry, it is applied also to 2002-2005 and 2005-2008. All of this gave rise to a lot of complaints, to a lot of charges in the courts and then to a correction by the People's Party Government, which, in fact, is not a correction, but a correction. And so, in a new law, which is the Law on flexibility and promotion of the housing rental market, introduces a second additional provision, which in its subparagraph (a)di: "The remaining subsidies for loans recognised within the framework of state housing plans shall be abolished and without effect." Ladies and gentlemen, this correction, in fact, not only does not fix anything, but it only makes it absolutely worse, and now, not by virtue of a decree, but by virtue of a law, are repealed, with retroactive effects, the housing aid granted in previous years. Ladies and gentlemen, against this law there is an appeal for unconstitutionality by the Socialist Parliamentary Group, an appeal for unconstitutionality which will surely one day be resolved – and we hope that positive – but up to that will pass, five, six, seven or eight years, while the neighbours and citizens of Spain will be harmed by this decision. It is worth saying that the total number of families affected is estimated to be around 250,000 in the state as a whole and we estimate that probably around 12,000 in Galicia. I also have to tell you that the provisions contained in the national housing plans required the beneficiaries of this aid to start by asking for a mortgage at twenty-five years; it couldn't be for less time. Secondly, these dwellings are recorded with a series of obligations, such as, for example, that they cannot be sold or rented within ten years. And thirdly, the granting of these benefits in the field of loan subsidies was not granted for the whole period of the loan, but for a period of five years, renewable, as long as the families met these conditions. Recently, in an appearance in front of Commission 2nd of this House, the Director General of the Galego Institute of Housing and Solo told us that this problem was already fixed, that there were 1,800 claims, something more than 1,000 were attended, but he forgot to say that the problem was not solved, only was the problem of the winnings that had occurred between July 2012 and June 5, 2013; all the others were unresolved. So out of the 12,000 affected Greek families, there are 1,000 who have seen their problem partially solved, insofar as they have been entitled to a five-year extension – within five years they will disappear their right, just like the others – and there are another eleven thousand and peaks for which that problem remains unresolved. Ladies and gentlemen, the Council of Galicia, the Autonomous Community of Galicia, by virtue of both the Statute of Self-Government and the Law of Housing which it has approved – in fact, the two housing laws which it has approved, both in 2008 and in 2011 – have exclusive competence in the area of housing. "exclusive competence" we interpret that also indicates exclusive responsibility for housing. Therefore, beyond the state decision, the Autonomous Community of Galicia must take responsibility for fulfilling its objectives and commitments, among other matters, because these aid was processed and granted through the Galician Institute for Housing and Solo, which, by the time it granted them, did not record or make any special impact on the state's funds and, therefore, if the State ceased to pay, it would also stop doing so. We therefore understand that the Council of Galicia must maintain these aids, and of course the Council of Galicia must stand up against the Government of Spain, claiming compliance with its obligations. He should have submitted a resource of unconstitutionality on his day, but he did not, but he has an obligation to defend, in all judicial fields, interests and commitments with these 12,000 families in Galicia. And finally, ladies and gentlemen, especially addressed to most of this House, I have to remember that those who have approved Law 4/2013 are the majority of the People's Party in the Spanish Parliament, and in this majority of the People's Party include the senators and deputies of the People's Party of Galicia. Therefore, it is not worth putting here to grief and saying how bad the Government of Madrid is when the votes of this People's Party are being supported by the Government of Madrid and it is the votes of this People's Party that make it possible for infamous people like Law 4/2013 to go ahead, just as these votes were that allowed ratification in the Congress of the Deputies of the Royal Decree 20/2012, of July, which was a legislative decree. For my part, that's all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u327	Thank you, Mr. Bugallo. Intervention of parliamentary groups. For the Galician Nationalist Block, Mr. Pombo Rodríguez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u328	Indeed, Mr Bugallo, there have been many occasions when we have dealt with this issue in this Parliament. The Parliamentary Group of the BNG has repeatedly denounced the tremendous injustice that thousands of Welsh and Welsh people have been subjected to, affected by the unfair decision to abolish aid for the grant of loans for the purchase of protected housing. We have mentioned several times in this Parliament of the Royal Decree 20/2012, which abolished aid for the grant of loans. The Parliamentary Group of the BNG, from the very first moment, has been in favour of maintaining aid to support these qualified loans for the purchase of protected housing, and that is why we have repeatedly urged the Government, or we want Parliament to do so, to urge the Government of the State, to require the Ministry of Development to comply with the commitments made with the holders of aid granted prior to the 2009-2012 Housing Plan. We are, in a word, complying with the Vigilant Legislation, so that the Board would defend its own competences in the field of housing, and defend all the Greeks and Greeks who have acquired rights that the Government of the State denies them, so that the Union would defend the right at a time when the terrible scourge of defiance, the scourge of living in the street, does not stop growing. Unfortunately, the vote of the People's Party has always been contrary to the demands of the BNG and other groups on this particular issue in this Parliament. Unfortunately, the same Government has denied extensions of subsidies to mortgage loans, so thousands – I say – families from all over the geography of our country have been withdrawn – I say – subsidies that had been recognised under the current legislation, thousands of families, many of them that will not be able to pay their mortgage credit, and that unfortunately they will also become bigger – say – families who suffer from rejection. Today, in fact, Mr Bugallo, we know of several firm judgments which recognize the right to extend the grant of these loans which have been denied, judgments which recognize the right even to legal interests arising since the extension had to take effect. Today there are several firm judgments, ladies and gentlemen, which recognize the right to fulfil the conditions laid down and laid down in the housing plans prior to Royal Decree 20/2012, in which the Government of the PP has decided to abolish them. As soon as the BNG Parliamentary Group is going to support this non-law proposal that you present, because we understand that it is very necessary to bring justice to thousands of families in our country. That's right, we tabled an amendment to add to your non-law proposal, which we believe is important to maintain aid for the subsidisation of loans prior to Royal Decree 20/2012. I hope you will accept this amendment from the BNG, which would be to our positive understanding to defend the rights to a decent housing, which is recognized throughout international and national legislation, but which often does not respect who rules our country. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u329	Thank you very much. For the Mixed Group, Mrs. Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u330	Thank you, President. We find ourselves again with an example of how the People's Party anticipates people's financial capital's interests. It should not be necessary to remember article 47 of the sacrosanct Constitution, which recognizes as a fundamental right the enjoyment of a decent and adequate housing. In 2012 the Government of the People's Party, on its own initiative, adopted the Royal Decree 20/2012, pompously entitled measures to guarantee budgetary stability and to promote competitiveness, in which the subsidies for the grant of loans covered by the 2009-2012 State Housing Plan were abolished; that is, the aid was withdrawn to the people who most need them. This decree is inserted into a series of rules that state governments are taking forward to favour the interests of capital in a crisis from which business and finance benefit, while popular classes have become impoverished. I mean, the crisis has been taken advantage of as an alibi to reduce rights and to bear even more the costs of the crisis on the social majority. The financial aid we're talking about was to facilitate the payment of the capitalisation of the mortgage loan and its interests. When eliminated, the persons holding public promotion housing hosted by the State Housing Plan were not satisfied with the conditions laid down by a subsequent decree. This has affected and will affect thousands of Galician families, who, when they lose their help and the right to extend it, will see their spending in mortgages high on an average of between 30 and 60 percent, as indicated by the Socialist Party's own non-law proposition. A judgment by the Dispute Chamber of the High Court of Justice of Madrid ruled in favour of a private individual who had resorted to a refusal to grant aid. Thus, the refusal to grant the loan by the Deputy Director-General for Housing Policy of the Community of Madrid was annulled for not being adjusted by law; that is, the judgment recognises that the right to aid must become effective. So he recognizes what the people affected and opposition groups are claiming: that the conditions laid down in the housing plans must be met for the people who have sheltered them, because, when a person or family decides to buy a housing, he accounts for his wages and the help he counts on. If any of these premises, wages and aids, go down, it's very likely that you can't cope with the mortgage payment, and therefore the dreaded defeat and the concern of Esperanza Aguirre to see the poor in the street without being able to hide them. Therefore, the change in the conditions of aid in access to habitual housing gives evidence of a policy that does not think of persons or their constitutional rights, remaining dependent on the economic interests of financial power. The Basque Parliament will shortly adopt a preliminary draft housing law which regulates, for the first time in the State, the right of access to a protected housing for those meeting certain economic requirements. The regulations provide, as in Andalusia, for the expropriation of the floors remaining after the evictions. In general, it is established that no more than 30% of family income is allocated to housing expenses, a percentage that goes down to 15% in the case of families with income below the minimum inter-professional wage. It's about anyone who doesn't exceed a certain income threshold, who can access a protected apartment in rent. If the person is denied that possibility, he can enforce his rights in the courts. It also makes the Administration stop financing protected apartments on property, because they understand that it is to pay with public money for private goods, which I fully agree with. Within five years, in Euskadi one hundred percent of public promotions will already be rented, but in Galicia neither supports the promotion of housing in social rent...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u331	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u332	...no legal guarantees are offered for those people who bought housing, since the conditions in which they bought them can be unilaterally modified and with retroactive effect. We agree that aid for the grant of loans must be maintained, and that for the people who have taken part in the state housing plans, the conditions must be maintained, so we announce our support for this motion. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u333	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. Parliamentary Group of the Left Galician Alternative. You have the word Mrs. Yolanda Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u334	Good afternoon. Mr Bugallo, announce the favourable vote of the Galega Alternative on this initiative in the two points that they point out. He knows and knows perfectly well that we have brought similar initiatives, similar to this one on different occasions, as reflected in the initiative itself. And above all, I believe that there is confluence in the opposition by claiming this issue, which is of common sense, just because it is a huge social demand in citizenship, and because there are thousands and thousands of people in Galicia who are affected by the rules that the People's Party is practicing. Certainly, the first rule published by the People's Party is collected in Royal Decree 20/2012, in Article 35, which referred to the fact that, since the entry into force of this rule, subsidies for loans contained in Royal Decree 2066 of the year 2012, in which the State Plan of Housing from 2009 to 2012 was properly collected, what happened is that – as you well know – what the People's Party did was a fraudulent application of the norm, even if it applied this article retroactively, and so it has been recognised by many of the rulings that have already been issued in Galicia and, of course, in the state as a whole, especially when that actual decree could have sketched or arranged a different application of the norm, or even normative the retroactive application of the same, which it has not done, so what the People's Party was doing with that suppression of loans that had been granted was absolutely illegal –instigated, as they are targeting the courts themselves. The question we should ask ourselves is what is the policy of the People's Party and who wins by the suppression of these aids that have been granted. It is very easy to know, we are as we are – said Mr. Rajoy today in the face of these cases that are flooded with corruption and irregular funding on a alleged basis by the People's Party. Indeed, they are as they are, Mr. Bugallo, and they have withdrawn those aids justly to continue giving benefits to the bank. Obviously, what I have supposed was, directly, that people who are not the cause of the crisis were impoverished because of the withdrawal of that loan subsidy, and, indeed, once again, the bank wins, therefore, of course, that you are legislating to those above, and of course they are willing to put an end to those below, without doubt, and in addition to no noise. They rescue banks. We see the obscene news of today, of which no one can tell. And of all that huge amount that Mr. De Guindos has to distinguish well the one given the People's Party to Banca and what the predecessors gave, we were only able to recover, with absolute calm on the part of De Guindos and the People's Party, 6,000 million euros. So Abanca wins, it's okay, but, yes, we drown families and drown people. But it is true that after that rule there was another norm, which is Law 4/2013 of June, which regulated what is called flexibility measures and promotion of the rental market. This rule, Mr Bugallo, changed different rules in our country, including the Law on Urban Rentals, also the Law on Civil Determination, incorporated different rules in respect of the disappearances, and indeed, it changed absolutely strictly everything that has to do with the State Housing Plan of what we are talking about. Indeed, this norm is what it does, on the one hand, only to maintain the aid that has been formalized within the next 12 months, but the rest of the aid that has been given is radically suppressed. Certainly just a few days ago, once again Mrs Becerril – we are calling her a citizen of honor in this Parliament because she has been quoted several times in this Parliament – she has been urging the People's Party to give a new six-month period to extend those aid we are talking about. And why? Because, as she herself says in public document, indeed, the number of people affected is very gross in the whole state, because there are reasons for public interest and for defending fundamental rights, people who, without doubt, will agree that they have the right to have a roof under what to live, because article 60 of Law 30/1992 has been justly violated because no information has been given...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u335	Finish it, Mrs. Díaz, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u336	...and, ultimately, because as the People's Party always rebel against the rules that are in force. And, indeed, now I suppose Mr Castineira will tell us that the RehaVita Plan will address this issue. Mr. Castineira, I am not the leader of this initiative, but, if that is the case, I agree that they vote in favour and, surely, that is how the Plan relives itself. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u337	Thank you very much. For the Popular Group. Mr. Castineira Broz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u338	Good afternoon. Thank you, Mrs. Díaz, for answering for me. I mean, that's how the work goes ahead, and if you know what I was going to say...! The truth is, we could hardly know, because, as Mr. Bugallo said, we once again brought this initiative. That's not why we have to remember that it's no less interesting, not much less, because the families who have to pay the interests that come out of subsidization, logically have that problem. Even with a much more recent initiative, which we just discussed in a committee on exactly 9th, less than a month ago. And this is an initiative that the Socialist Party had there in the drawer and turned it up, I don't know if it had no more recent, because it even has things that are already more out of hand than the debate in the last committee, so to speak. I saw that everyone said the same thing and that there's not much news to bring about, since it's been the same thing. It is clear, and I repeat to you again, Mr Bugallo, that you say that under the 2012 Decree, interest subsidies were actually withdrawn, but it must also be remembered that in 2011 – January 2011, Government of Zapatero – they withdrew something no less important, not much less, direct aid to the purchase of housing, which was worth 12,000 euros, and those were for everyone. The figures you say, Mr. Bugallo, do not match the reals, nor much less. You give a figure of a number of people who have official protection housing, indeed, buyers of official protection housing, who could be potential users or beneficiaries of that interest subsidy, but that's not the case because not everyone meets the conditions for interest subsidies, and then, successively, every five years, as they are reviewed, there are many families who because they have improved their economic situation, because of the situation they have been, they lose the right to that subsidy, because, logically, they have to meet the requirements set out in the corresponding housing plan; that is, in this case, we are primarily talking about, dd 2009 to 2012, but also about the previous revisions in the subsequent revisions. One of the things that precisely reviews the Board, which is the only role it has, which is management, is precisely if the families that have originally granted that interest subsidy, continue to have that right to have them. But the fact is that of the one thousand eight hundred and something – Mr Bugallo said, because the data are there – of the 1,875 files that he had paralysed, pending resolution by the interpretation of the Ministry, which actually corrected that interpretation, and not only by what they said to them, but by the Board itself of Galicia, since the MATI Council itself was one of the insistent ones, so to speak, in the change of that interpretation, which was done in August last year, giving rise to that new deadline to review those files which were paralysed. About 1,800 pending files there, which were denials for not meeting or not adapting to the interpretation criterion of Royal Decree 20/2012, are only 61 left for review, and there are about 1,150, more or less, who have permission, who meet the requirements, and about 650 who did not meet the requirements. I mean, more than one third, or around one third, they didn't meet the requirements and, therefore, they have no right to interest subsidies. They're going down and logically they're not going to ask for it for the next time. So, the 12,000 you're talking about, it's not that much less, I mean, it's not that the figure is small, nor do I want to minimize it, but the data aren't that, Mr. Bugallo, you always like to increase it...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u339	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u340	... –I'm done, Madam President – almost everything. What is clear is that the only thing that has competence in subsidisation of interests is the ministry, and Junta did everything in her hand. For those most needy families, he asked for that help, but what he cannot, logically, with funds from all the Greeks, pay what belongs to the ministry, as he came to prove and so prove by successive judgments. Of all the types of grants that depended on the Galician Board, nothing was taken away at all, but quite the contrary, and even management with the ministry, such as the Renewal Plan or the Rehabilitation Area Plan, where they are currently being carried out, already in the process of processing the files, that there were some pending ones, for example, in the Renewal Plan, that there were several for those who did not arrive at the 2009-2012 Plan funds. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u341	Thank you very much. Not the author of the bill. Mr. Sánchez Bugallo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u342	Thank you very much, Madam President. First, thank you for the favourable vote by the opposition groups. To say that regarding the amendment submitted by the Nationalist Block Galego we will make a small transaction to incorporate the reference to Law 4/2013, and not only to the Royal Decree 20/2012. And with regard to Mr Castineira's intervention, indeed, there are few news, but the problem is unresolved. The problem is that thousands of Galician families are looking at how the five-year period ends and loans are not extended. I know they're not very important families, they're numerous families, but with little economic resources. Families who will see how their mortgage rises 90, 100, 150 euros a month. Perhaps for Mr. Castineira, and for a lot of people, because it's a small amount, even ridiculous or ridiculous, but for a pensioner who lives on a pension of 700 euros, or for a person who lives on a minimum wage of 600 euros, 150 euros more a month may suppose the difference between being able to pay or not pay. And gentlemen, the other problem is that this is a troupe. If this had affected any company, there would be no problem, I would go to the courts of Justice, I would go to Strasbourg and this would be cancelled because there is a basic principle that is the irretroactivity of the rules. You cannot unilaterally modify a norm and apply it with retroactive effects against the will of the other side, unless it is more favourable. And when you do that, it results in compensation, and that's what you're going to have to do. But in this case it is abused because we are talking about families without economic resources that cannot be proposed to go to Strasbourg or to seek effective legal protection and protection. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, for this reason this Parliament should be, to represent the voice of those who have no means to defend themselves in the courts. Mr. Amancio Ortega does not need this Parliament or these Members, so he can hire lawyers. Look, the EUR 480 million that, according to the press, has just collected in terms of last year's profits, is more than twice as much as it costs to replenish all the bonuses, all the loans subsidies for the whole of Spain. It's more than twice. So he doesn't have that problem. But thousands of humble families do. And when I speak of 12,000, Mr. Castineira, it's the beneficiaries, the ones who are welcomed to the national housing plans. That if some don't meet the conditions legitimately, better for them, they won't need help. But most, unfortunately, not only do they fulfill them, but they're worse than five or six years ago.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u343	Mr Bugallo, do you accept the amendment or not?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u344	The amendment is accepted with a transaction I'll have tomorrow, if it's all right, or right now.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-05-DSPG108.u345	Thank you. We'll stop the meeting until 10 a.m. tomorrow. Good night, thank you very much.
