ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u1	Good morning, ladies. The session is open. The agenda is published in the Official Gazette of the Parliament of Galicia, so it is not read. We have justified Mrs Concepción Burgo's absence, and we are on the agenda with point 1 of legislative texts. Comprehensive discussion of the draft legislation on improvement of the territorial agricultural structure of Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u2	Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Blocs Galego, the Parliamentary Group of the Glaga Alternative of the Left and the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia have been amended to the bill. [[Mr. Jorquera Caselas asks for the word.]] Yes, I'm sorry, Mr. Jorquera?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u3	Thank you, Madam President. It is to raise a point of order, by appeal to Article 73.1, which provides that the agenda of the plenary may be amended by agreement with it, either by proposal from the President or at the request of two parliamentary groups or by a fifth of the members of the House. We have made the request of the Parliamentary Group of the Glaga Alternative of the Left and that of the Nationalist Block of Wales to request that we record our protest by the Bureau's agreement on the programming of work for this session, since we believe that there is a clear breach of pluralism in this House and the rights of parliamentary groups. It is an agreement taken in breach of Article 30.7 which establishes the obligation to hear the Speaker's Board...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u4	Mr. Jorquera, I understand.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u5	... since it was not on the agenda of the Speaker's Meeting or in the documentation previously provided along with the agenda. We understand that they are in manifest breach...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u6	Mr. Jorquera...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u7	...the supplementary rules relating to Article 155 on questions to the President, which is a discretionary and discriminatory agreement...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u8	Mr. Jorquera, I understand.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u9	...because a rule applies for two parliamentary groups and another one for the rest.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u10	Mr. Jorquera, please, I understand.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u11	And, therefore, we announce that we will present all the relevant resources and we want you to record in this plenary our roundest inconformity and protest.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u12	Mr. Jorquera, I understand it, but you know that this matter is not part of the agenda of this plenary and therefore you have already had your question of order. If it seems to you, let's continue with the full, with the presentation of the bill by the councilor of the Middle Rural and the Sea. [[Mr. Beiras Torrado asks for the floor.]] Mr. Beiras, I think Mr. Jorquera has already spoken on behalf of his group as well. [[Mr. Beiras Torrado pronounces words that are not perceived.]] If it's about the same subject, it's not a matter that affects the agenda of this whole day. If you don't mind, we'll continue... If this is the same subject as Mr. Jorquera spoke about, I tell you that it is not a matter that affects the agenda of this plenary and therefore it is a matter, as you know, of Bureau and Council of Spokesman. [[Murmurs.]] [[Mr. Beiras Torrado pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Is it for this question, Mr. Beers? Tell me what the word is. [[Mr. Beiras Torrado pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Give a voice to Mr. Beiras' chair to tell him what the word is for.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u13	Well, to corroborate what the spokesperson for the BNG said, because I...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u14	Hold your voice, please. You have no word, Mr. Beers. Mr. Beiras, I've explained it to you... [[Mr. Beiras Torrado pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Mr. Beers, please, I've explained it to you. [[Mr. Beiras Torrado pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Please, Mr. Beers. Counsellor, you have the floor. [[Mr. Beiras Torrado pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Mr. Beers, please. [[Mr. Beiras Torrado pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Mr. Beiras, you have a call to order. You have the floor, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u15	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, very good morning. I think when we repeat that Galicia has the soul in the countryside, we're not saying any falsehood. Thus, 84% of its surface has that condition. As a result, the agricultural sector directly employs more than 5% of the active population and generates more than 3% of the German gross domestic product. Without a doubt, this activity continues to hide potentials capable of offering new opportunities to this community, and from this thesis extracts the Greek Government the defense of the strategic character of the primary production of our rural. The German Government has just pushed in the last legislative term the changes necessary to convert rural to destiny, but we still know there are things left to do. The years to come will mark the future of rural areas and there are many possibilities of positively influencing the development of agricultural activity without necessarily being associated with public expenditure, thus conjugating measures in non-budgetary areas, such as legislation or administrative. In that spirit lies this draft law of improvement of Galicia's agricultural territorial structure. At this point, we add this spirit to a reality that we have been developing and that tells us that there are positive points, which reflects that the average of half acres of partial concentration finished has grown by 8% since 2009 with respect to the previous stage, and that the average of beneficial owners increases by 4% in that same period. All of this, together with another set of measures that are being developed, were able to respond – to our positive but short content – to the problem, and left us figures as an increase in the territorial base of dairy farms in 248% between 2001 and 2011. Since then, the current regulation has served to facilitate the transformation of the agricultural sector, but right now it's a concept, that of the partial concentration, exhausted and no longer gives speed to this process that requires a new march. The partial concentration process currently considered is too much longer in time, and the orientation is based mainly on the decrease of plots brought by the owners without taking into account sustainability criteria. In addition, it is very expensive, especially relevant in the current economic context, and it must also be conceptually adapted to the standards adopted by the German Government in recent years. I'm referring to the land management rules and the Land Mobility Act. And also, in the same way, we cannot at present act in the soil of the rural nucleus, and this impediment does not allow the use of the productive character of plots with clear agricultural potential. Therefore, the proposed text must entail a qualitative leap in the iodine of the restructuring of the Galician agriculture, putting the earth with agrarian vocation in value and promoting that wealth is generated through the optimization of its use by agricultural holdings. It's a more modern conception of the improvement of structures, geared towards promoting the economic development of farms and which goes beyond what I have hitherto assumed the mere concentration of plots. Thus, structure reform will be cheaper and run in less time. With this, the Law on Improvement of Galicia's Agricultural Structure will form, together with the Law on Land Mobility adopted in 2011 and the Law on the Mountains of Galicia adopted in 2012, a unique and coherent legal body that expresses the importance that this government attaches to management for land management, understanding how agricultural, livestock and forestry activities would be agrarian. Therefore, the objective of the Preliminary draft law on improvement of Galicia's agricultural territorial structure, adopted by agreement of the Board of Trustees and registered in this Parliament on December 9 as a bill, is to properly order the land structure, reducing costs of execution without prejudging the rights of administrations and reducing the times of execution. In addition, they aim to improve the technical, structural and economic conditions of agricultural holdings, taking into account the appropriate and sustainable management criteria of agricultural holdings and their crops, pursuing economic and social usefulness. This project takes up, in that constructive spirit, the approaches of the Agrarian Council, the Forest Council, as well as those carried out by the Economic and Social Council. The latter, the Economic and Social Council, points out that the preliminary draft law subject to the directive provides for substantial changes in respect of the previous rules, which may be positive in order to value Galicia's agricultural area. It particularly highlights the ESC in its dictatorship, adopted on 4 September, the understanding of the inclusion of forest land by trying to avoid its abandonment and seeking new ways of reorganizing rural plots and infrastructures in a more rational, axile, sustainable and economical way, underlining the consideration of the opportunity of the bill saying it is adjusted to the objectives that this law pursues. Given the project, this text we propose develops this new concept that we need, that of partial restructuring. It exceeds the dimension and performance capacity of the current partial concentration. Its main objective is not so much a decrease in the number of plots, but to maintain and optimize the use of farms. The text sets a shorter procedure than the current one for improving agricultural structures to be faster and more functional without prejudice to the rights of administrators. It aims to simplify the procedure by reducing the number of phases and improving the documentation delivery and processing system. Consequently, it also decreases the costs of running the partial restructuring, optimizing the available resources and saving in the execution of the works, since, to the extent possible, the traces of existing roads will be used. In addition, this pooling factor makes the plots environmentally more sustainable, contributing to mitigating the environmental impact by establishing appropriate measures for land use. Going to another problem currently highlighted for existing processes, we proceed to include the rural core soils in the perimeter of the operation of the partial restructuring, responding to one of the main demands of the owners of the farms and allowing the restructuring of these types of soils without affecting a possible implementation of urban management processes. In another coordinated line, this project advances in allowing the declaration of certain perimeters of farms as abandoned when circumstances such as the risk of fire are given, whether they are either fire or land demand for existing farms. In this sense, the owners of these lands must choose between working them, renting them privately to third parties who work them or are incorporated into the Land Bank. If you do not opt for any of these three routes, you will be punished on the basis of the Land Mobility Act. But all this proposes without losing an apex of participation. Nothing further, it allows for greater transparency in the relationships of all the agents involved, introducing new forms of public participation such as the Local Area Board, the Board of Holders and the Technical Advisory Committee. These bodies shall coordinate the actions carried out in the province and among the different bodies involved in a specific action. We are talking about Heritage or Urbanism, thus promoting participation and coordination between the owners and the Administration. Consequently, with this new advance in the concept of the land structure, and in a coherent manner, this project declares the expiry of some obsolete partial concentration processes, if it will only affect those concentration processes initiated before the vigil of this law which were not subject to any firm administrative action or act that would give them continuity. As a last step, in technical and administrative fields, it should be noted that this text favours the management of plots and the resizing of farms through the permutations and reordering of land areas in agricultural areas. The content of this law, it must be said, includes the novice aspect of raising the range of law the procedure of restructuring the property of lands with agrarian vocation by individuals, offering arbitration, advisory services, and even including a new procedure in the law in which the rearrangement of the agrarian surface of a previously demarcated area can be agreed on. But a territorial structure is not complete from agrarian point of view if the specific circumstances of the territory are not taken into account, their productive attitude and the orientation of the agricultural use of their farms. It's not only about structuring the property, it's about using this to, in those cases where priority crops are identified, ordering land use to a level of concretion never realized, giving priority to the proximity of the replacement farms to the areas ordered to the farms that need to be installed in them to be larger and more viable. Land management plans of special agrarian vocation are a great novelty. This is the first time in Europe to combine a process of ownership restructuring with a real and practical land use management. But the proposal for a new path and framework for agricultural territorial structuring must be accompanied by the stimulus for our objective to move on that path at the right speed, serving as an engine in that movement. This stimulus will be given in good way by the tax benefits that this project establishes. The first focus of this bet is centered on inheritances. We changed the current situation in which, when an agricultural holding was included, a 99% reduction in the value of the farm was practiced for tax purposes when the other agricultural holding was transmitted. We make that now, in addition to the whole farms, the 99% reduction in value can be applied to loose rustic farms, giving this advantage both when they are passed on to agricultural holdings with a professional farmer at the front and when they are incorporated into the Land Bank. In terms of sales and involuntary donations, we varied the pre-existing situations in which the purchases of agricultural holdings would be applied by a 99% reduction in the value of agricultural holdings for the calculation of the tax when the other agricultural holding was transmitted. And now, in addition to the whole farms, you can apply the same 99% reduction in value to loose rustic farms. In the case of the temporary assignment of land that is part of the Bank of Lands, transmissions in ownership or temporary assignment of land that is part of the Banco de Terras de Galicia will enjoy a deduction in the tax rate of 100% in the tax on property transmissions and documented legal acts. In addition, this tax benefit will be compatible with any other which may be applicable to such adjudications or mediation, thereby promoting the incorporation of parcels into this land mobility mechanism. Since then, and in summary, the advantages of the partial restructuring against the ankylled concept of concentration, which had as its objective the aggregation of the arrivals of each owner on a new farm, are evident. We not only want to reduce minifundism, but also, what we want is that the new territorial structure is the best from the point of view of the best productive optimization of the earth and time allows the agrarian activity existing in the area to have a solid basis in this new structure to restructure its activity, thereby improving its economic viability. But before I finish, I mean that the work of getting us to have this tool in our hand today and the possibility of bringing it forward for the good of Galicia and its rural has some protagonists, those who I want to thank for their work. Therefore, go from this forum to my thanks and the Government of Galicia to the staff of the Council, especially in the area of rural development, to the members of the representation of the Agrarian Council and the Forest Council, and in particular to all members of the Economic and Social Council, because they have been able to see that this law is capable of providing the solutions they seek. They receive our thanks today, the gratitude of Galicia, as I know you will receive it at the end of the parliamentary process of this project. I know that you know how important you are and that you will be consistent and responsible in your debate. For all this, and in advance, I thank you and I ask you for your support for this text of the draft Law on Improvement of Galician Agrarian Structure. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u16	Thank you very much. The role of defence of amendments to the whole and position of the bill. For the Galician Nationalist Block, Mrs. Paz Franco has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u17	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Madam Counsellor of the Rural Environment, we could begin by saying that this is undoubtedly one of the most desirable bills in this Parliament. Of course, Mr. Núñez Feijóo and the Council of the Government of Galicia have been practically carrying out since 2009 announcing the imminent presentation in this Parliament of a bill to improve Galician land structure. And he finally saw the light. Surely this bill has been so expected to explain the disappointment that this project produces us in the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, and we believe that in much of the producer sector as well. So we could say, firstly, that it is finally late, Counselor. You know perfectly well that within a period of less than two months the framework of the European milk sector, which should undoubtedly be the sector to which this bill has been most targeted. Of course, the measures that are intended to be pursued by the adoption of this bill to extend the territorial base of our dairy farms so that they can compete, I say no longer on equal terms but, at least, not with so many comparative disadvantages on that new stage without quotas, are absolutely late. We therefore consider this to be a serious irresponsibility. Secondly, after listening to your intervention, Counselor, I have to say that we must read absolutely different bills. Because it's true that you, I suppose, have premeditatedly held this law as "improvement of Galician territorial structure," and you insisted a lot on your intervention that changed the conceptualization of "concentration" to "restructuring", which was a much broader concept. And indeed, if it were so, it would be a much broader and much closer concept to our territorial reality, to our reality of agricultural and rustic property and, above all, to our productive reality. However, what we have to say from the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, and where our request for return to the Government is supported, for this bill to be re- drafted, is that we believe it is not. We believe that this law does not address from an integral perspective the modification of the structure of the rustic property in our country. We believe that the main objective of this law should be not only the modification of that property structure but rather seek to incorporate as much land as possible into agricultural production, and to incorporate them into the – minor but still existing – farms of our country more land to have more production capacity and also to optimize much more the potential of the land. So far, Counsellor, we have had about four instruments to achieve this goal: that of the partial mergers, the Land Bank, the forest development societies and the sustainable exploitation contract. In relation to the partial mergers, it must be said that it has been manifested – after something more than sixty years since the use of this instrument in the Spanish State to restructure property – absolutely ineffective in our country. It must be said that the first partial concentration was in Cantalapiedra. It started in 1953 and ended in 1956. You, ladies and gentlemen, in three years, have made a partial concentration, while in Galicia we have an average of eighteen years for the execution of the partial mergers. Eighteen years is the average, but there are concentrations – of many of which this law itself already repeals its decrees – that can lead to about forty years decreed without being completed. In all those years, in sixty years, we haven't been able to concentrate more than 300,000 hectares in Galicia. Therefore, it has resulted – and today is to a far greater extent – an absolutely irrelevant instrument for several reasons, for the delay that occurs and, of course, for its lack of guidance towards the productive sector; above all, those that were decreed several decades ago. With regard to the Land Bank, what do you want us to tell you, Counselor? You just put it in hibernate, and therefore you're also becoming a pretty useless tool to mobilize land, starting with the absence of a management instrument that dynamics and allocation of few resources. With regard to Sofors, since approval in 2010, not a single Sofor has been able to establish itself. And what do you want me to tell you about the ESCs, where successive cuts have started since 2010? And they don't have enough cuts, which last week a lot of winners began receiving demands for them to pay back money paid for 2010, 2011 and 2012. I don't know if it would be nice for you three or four years later to be claimed that they returned 7,000 euros that at the time they met all the requirements set out in order. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, since the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group we believe that this bill is absolutely useless to curb the main problem we have in our rural environment, which is, on the one hand, the continuing and permanent loss of assets working in the primary sector and the resulting demographic decline. Therefore, the central objective of this bill should be to maintain these assets, increase the useful agricultural area available to farmers and, of course, contribute to reducing the production costs of those holdings. So, Counsellor, I have to tell you, I insist, that from reading this bill, what happens is that you actually try, by changing the procedure of agricultural concentrations, to shorten the processes of these concentrations. They simplify the provisional bases and the definitive bases that existed in the previous legislation on restructuring bases; and the project and the agreement, in the restructuring agreement. However, this law, which in many cases more than one law seems to be a regulation, continues to maintain, for both the bases and the agreements, a previous stage of allegations that are settled in territorial delegations and another action before the General Directorate itself. There is another aspect, Counsellor, which would be very relevant to shortening deadlines, which is to provide human and material means to implement the various processes. Now, there are resources that go up to two years in the General Directorate to be solved for lack of technical personnel to address this work. And in the memory of this bill, what you're telling us is that you're thinking of enforcing this law exactly with the same technical framework, both at the central and territorial levels, of the General Infrastructure Directorate of the Rural Environment Council. Therefore, there is still the stage of allegations in the Delegation and appeal in the General Directorate with the same human resources, they will hardly be shortened. And also the allocation of resources for the execution of works. Look, Counsellor, now as an average, you can say that in the realization of the road network in a partial concentration, approximately 2 million euros are invested, which are divided into two annums; works that could be carried out, by their content, quietly in a year and a half, but that, however, due to lack of budgetary resources end up lasting these works, which are divided into two theoretical annuities, about six years. And from the economic memory of this law, there is not going to be any more resources to carry out these actions; therefore, we cannot claim, as you have said with so much roundness, that there is going to be a smoothing and acceleration of the processes, as far as, indeed, some administrative procedures are cut off. Look, on the other hand, what is missing in this law, if you really want to keep that claim that it's a restructuring law and not just a concentration law, it's the existence of instruments that are really useful to transfer as much agricultural area as possible, not through the way of change of domain, but through use, by agricultural holdings. Because, ladies and gentlemen, even those alternative formulas set out in this bill in relation to the reform of the structure between individuals are absolutely residual within this law. What wins, what continues to dominate, are the partial concentrations. And the partial mergers all and we all know that they do not imply an increase in the territorial base available to a holding but simply that the territorial base that was previously in 10, 15, 20 plots ends up in one or two plots. And what this is about in this country, if we really want to give viability to the agricultural sector, is to bring more land to agricultural holdings, which, of course, is due to their current economic situation, and by charging milk at 25 or 26 cents per litre, hardly, or almost impossible, they will be able to make the incorporation of more land by means of having to increase the costs or to have to cope with the costs to increase that territorial base. And, therefore, Counsellor, we miss in this bill the existence, the establishment, of alternative formulas, which would be the real novice and dynamizer of the land market in our country. Because – I insist – through this bill the only thing that is done is to increase the size of the existing plots, but not the amount of surface that the farms have at their disposal. So we believe that in this bill – so we want it to be returned to the Government – other formulas should be included. You said there were things we were going to be the first in Europe to do. But there are already other things that we were the first in Europe to do and that you just wanted to make it obvious. And I'm not going to talk about the Land Bank, I'm going to talk about mixed formulae such as the associative restructuring, such as, for example, in the mine castrelo-castre segment, which allows farms to manage more land without necessarily mediating any kind of change of domain or property change of those lands, simply incorporating their use to those people who really devote themselves to agrarian activity. There is a lack of land management transfer formulas without a mean of domain change either. And, on the other hand, Counsellor, another of the stars of this bill is the incorporation of forest land into this scope. We, of course, believe that the formula of the partial concentrations for the forest territory is absolutely a waste of time, as we say gently, of course, because what plots can result from the partial concentration on forest land?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u18	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u19	Could it be 20,000-meter units, two acres? Do you really believe that two hectares are sufficient for sustainable and profitable forest exploitation for your owners? No, and, therefore, you'd have to go here also to other kinds of formulas that you have allergy to, like the forest management units. And finally, we're going to talk about political will. You told us here that a sanctioning regime was established. And that's where I'm laughing right away. The sanctioning regime established in this bill is practically grounded in the sanctioning regime that has been in force in this country since 2007, in which it came into force throughout its extension to the Land Bank Act. And you don't apply that sanctioning regime. Do you have to make us believe that from now on they're going to apply a sanctioning regime that was already in force and that they've never applied? Look, Counselor, I insist. It is absolutely frustrating for the producer sector in our country, after waiting almost six years – because in the investment debate of April 2009 this has already been one of Mr.Núñez Feijóo's great announcements – after being waiting almost six years for an essential law for our country, that what you bring us here is an instrument that is absolutely useless, that is more of the same, and that the only thing that will happen is a new frustration for the future of the dairy sector and for the future of people who continue to believe and want to live and work on their land. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u20	Thank you very much. For the Parliamentary Group of the Left-Galga Alternative, Mr. Antón Sánchez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u21	Good morning to all of you. Good morning, Counselor, I'm glad to see you here today. It's less bad than I'm acting in the second place, because if I didn't, it would have been hard to concentrate while the new education councilman was kissing us by the parliamentary group. I don't have as much concentration capacity as Mrs. Paz. If I went into analyzing this Law of improvement of the territorial structure seriously agrarian, Counselor, I would be contributing to what you want to do with the presentation of this preliminary draft, which is a curtain of smoke in the face of a reality where the data in this field are disastrous. And I won't contribute. I will not contribute to that smoke curtain of the lack of action and political will of this government to really solve this problem. This isn't serious, this is not serious. Because I say: can you solve the question of improving the agricultural structure of Galicia's farms only with the adoption of new laws, however perfect those were, Counsellor? The answer is no, and you know it. The solution of this problem, such as most of the complex structural problems, comes from the existence of good regulation, but also from the political will, from coherent regulatory and administrative action, from the shaping of that political will through the implementation of sufficient human and economic resources to move from words to facts, from the CEO to reality. And that's what you don't do. As far as political will is concerned, we ask, Counsellor, whether the Government of Greece intends to deal seriously with this issue, the management of the territory, the protection of soils with agronomical attitudes, as a non-renewable remedy, maintaining coherence between the laws that are being approved and maintaining coherence in actions so that they all move forward in the same direction and with a clear objective. We see that, unfortunately, no. More it seems that it is intended, without having exhausted at all the progress of the current legislation, to cover up the shortcomings of a reality in which the evaluable results are negative with the effectivity of adopting a new law. You have the ability to show that I'm a newly arrived Government. And you, at this last stage alone, have been six years. And the data are the ones that are, at the end of 2014, published the data of the National Institute of Statistics on Greek agricultural holdings. These are dramatic data: continuous loss of useful agrarian surface, no increase in the area of agricultural holdings, and no longer entering the data that also affect the mobility of land, of course, of aging of the population of Galicia. These data said nothing more and nothing less than 60% of the agricultural population in this country is over 60 years old, and only 5% of the agricultural population in this country is under 40 years old. With that picture, when you're done with the partial mergers, see what those partial mergers are for. And that's why we say it's a complex problem that requires many performances in the same sense, as if it were a quitter, and with coherence, seriousness and will, that you don't have. We are talking about the fact that there has been no exhaustion of the applicable legal requirements, because already in the current legislation there are elements such as those that are now presented to us as star proposals in this law, which have not been implemented. But we know how to read, we work, and we study strictly the Law of 2001, of modification of the partial concentration, the Land Mobility Act, 6/2011, and we see that the announcements of issues that already appear in the vigorous legislation are repeated at this time. Who are they trying to fool? There were incentives for landowners to mobility similar to today's, the existence of a sanctioning regime that never applied to the partial concentration. And today we are announced by Mr Feijóo on repeated occasions that will be panacea and solution to all our problems. For example, the Law on Amendment of Particulate Concentration states: "The failure to comply with these obligations or with the plan for managing the use of crops or forests, if any, as well as the change of use of the land classified as prairie or meadow until the municipalities regulate the use of concentrated lands, will give rise to the imposition of sanctions determined in this law." Where is the application of this sanctioning regime? How will it be applied, if you don't have the legitimacy to apply it to people because they don't do their homework and then they can't apply it? And they do not apply it. Where is law enforcement when there are illegal reforestations of land in this country? How are those complaints handled? A director general came here and said two hundred files were being processed in the middle of the year two! How do you allow illegal reforestation of land and come here now saying that your goal is to improve the structure of farms? Land Mobility Act 6/2011 says: "It is also intended to provide the Bank of Lands with legal resources to carry out other vital functions for the dynamization of land mobility and even for the management of rural territory, allowing the Bank of Lands to be a dynamizing instrument of the Greek agro". What resources did the Land Bank provide to perform these functions, which are obviously necessary? "This new law gives legal support to the conduct of research and planning works of the property, and the relevant record of the searches carried out..." Where are those resources for the Land Bank? Where's that action from the Land Bank? Where are the results of the Land Bank's shares? "Another function that the Land Bank can perform is to provide intermediation services between third parties for the performance and rental of installations linked to agricultural holdings." What is the result of these actions? There were actions, there were stimuli, there were exemptions – if they were 95% before, they were 100% now. Are you going to change that qualitatively? It is clear that the development and application of the existing legal framework has a much greater potential than is being put into practice, both at the legal level and at the resources made available to instruments like this one said, the Land Bank. Investment in human and economic resources so that legislation can be applied in this field is really, compared with what is invested in the firefighting device, small amounts. Yesterday, the Galego Economic Forum even made public a report denouncing the absolute trend – as we denounce it – to prioritize the spending on the extinction of fires on investments to solve the structural problems of this country. She just made public. In the field application of some of the regulatory requirements, the control of abandoned surfaces or uncontrolled reforestation of the useful agrarian surface is also done repeatedly. There's permission for the illegal reforestation of lands, as I said. They are of little use, Counsellor, these legal instruments, be regulatory, promoters, if they are not finally carried out with resources, compliance and follow-up of the results. There's no resources nor do we know the results or you've never come here to give results. All these issues that have not been shaped for lack of will, resources or because the question is very complex, make the music of promises sound again, but not the reality of facts. Is the solution a law, Counselor, or is the solution a government project, of what this government lacks? Well, we, of course, know that it's the second one, it's a country project, what you lack. It was unable to articulate the integrated mechanisms to achieve the objectives of protecting the cultivable land, of ordering the territory, of promoting the mobility of land, of guaranteeing the territorial base for farms, of helping in the marketing of agricultural products, of improving the profitability of farms and, in turn, of dynamising rural areas, of avoiding abandonment, of implementing taxation that stimulates the use of land according to its classification or being diligent in preventing non-compliance with the law. And it's not worth one of these things, they're all or none, they have to be all or none. And it wasn't because they didn't have enough rules to move on. "Dogacracy," Counselor, does not perform miracles. No dynamizer instruments on the ground, in every county, no technicians with functions in the county offices or in the municipalities, no work, if resources, it can't be achieved. You just presented the amortization of 130 squares that primarily affect, as we have already said, the dismantling of the comarcal agrarian offices. And all these issues have to be moving forward in parallel. This lack of real political will or project becomes more evident when laws passed in other councils or sectors are contradictory to the laws of the Rural Council that pursue the objectives of improving the agricultural structure. That is, if we analyze the preliminary draft of the new land law that is intended to be approved, it completely torpedoes efforts to improve agricultural structures, the protection of high-capacity land to produce food or the reforestation itself. All experts agree to point out that one of the factors that competes with agricultural land and that causes the loss of useful agricultural land is urban expansion, urban expansion which has consumed in the last twelve years 60,000 hectares, and soils with a higher agronomic attitude. Well, in the preliminary draft of the Land Law, Madam Counsellor – I don't know if you plan to make any allegations, some comments or talk to the advisor – once again the figure of the Land Law is urban expansion based on the recalibration of the rustic soil. Article 31.5: "The general plan may justifiably exclude from rustic soil special protection the land necessary for rational urban development, with express authorization from the body with sectoral competence which has motivated the protection of the soil in question". With this articulate, even the maximum protection that could give the rustic soil counts with exceptions that allow its violation, without any clarity whatsoever what the rules for those exceptions are going to be. How would it be defined, for example, the term "rational urban development"? And instead of making a land law based on rehabilitation and regeneration, you're still expanding, an element that obviously competes with land use. It's totally contradictory to what you're coming to say here today, contradictory. Or either the Mountain Law, which allows the change of land use to forest, or in its preamble says, "The basic objective formulated: the increase of the tree mass in quantity and quality." Forest use is another thing that experts say competes and advances to the detriment of agricultural soil, and in a law where they should prioritize the improvement of productivity of the existing surface – the improvement of quality, transformation, etc. – one of their objectives is to increase the tree mass. As in the Rural Development Programme, they repeat that their goal is to increase the forest surface. We have a limited country – I don't know if they intend to invade the Beer or something...–. So if one of the threats to agricultural soil is forfestation and if we still need to increase the forest surface but to improve the yields of the mountain, you still bet on making one of the threats to agricultural holdings today. How will the targets be achieved if you do not have resources, staff, political will or economic resources? Counsellor, in your own economic memory of this law, you already admit that on average half of the economic resources of those who have been spending in the last 12 years will be spent. The average of the last few years was 20 million euros, and you in this very ambitious law say you're going to spend 10 million euros on average; an average of 20 million euros, of course, that Mr Feijó helped down. Because we have the data here. Since the arrival of Mr Feijóo, in partial mergers in 2013, 23 million euros; in 2011, 11.5. 2012, 14; and in 2013, 4.4. He's already helped down, but the average was 20 million euros. And you, in this ambitious plan, do this: do more with less, certainly do more with less, as up to now, more with less. Here are the results. We've seen the pace of progress in your goals, Counselor. If we had to judge her only for these goals and numbers, you should resign. Since we are in a crisis of permanent government, depending on the electoral interests of the People's Party and not on the general interests of citizenship, it could also be done. Well, in addition, we see no novelty in stimulus, or increased resources, that makes it efficient for the possible application of this law. Many of the ideas seem unreal to us. It is clear that the law states: "70 per cent of landowners may decide whether or not to initiate a partial restructuring process." All right, do you think that in the countryside today, even though 70% of agricultural holdings agree, is it realistic that they can start a process aside from other landowners who do not have agricultural holdings and without the support of the Galician Union? We think it's not realistic, and that's why we don't think a lot of these projects are going to be started. Finally, we are presented with a minimum amendment to the Particulate Concentration Act to achieve purely propagandistic effects. But it doesn't answer why now if it will apply what has not been applied before, if it will allocate resources when they have not been applied before, and if it will be enforced when it has not been applied before. We are here to admit all kinds of ideological differences and policies that exist, but we demand seriousness in the approaches. The only thing we want to keep here, one of the few things, is that we don't have hair. So, seriously. We need a comprehensive project in this country that will solve the challenges of the next few years of rural life. In fact, we believe that their party and their government are very comfortable with this reality of abandonment and aging, in which they continue to close up farms, in a country where they have no prospects, for now, their rural ones. Obviously, we aspire to change this reality, because if we think it has a future. But you've shown that with your policies they do their best not to have it. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u22	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr. García.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u23	Thank you, President. Good morning, Counselor, I'm also very happy to be able to debate with you here today, believe me telling you the truth. There are 1.6 million headlines, that is, 60% of this country's population, which have at least one rustic farm. The size of that plot, on average, is 1.7 hectares per owner; and those 1.7 hectares per owner are divided into an average of 7.7 plots. That's the picture. So coming to this picture with triumphalist measures is not right. I mean, work is hard and it's complicated. And we have to get out of there if we're really going to take this matter seriously. Everything else – as it has already been said here and I will not repeat – is to make a DOG, to say that a law is made, but it will not serve for anything. And that's right, and this reality – I'm not going to be a statesman, and all that's good for one thing is bad for another – comes because in this country in historical processes people have accessed the property of the earth, which in other places has not happened. And, therefore, there was such a thing. But also without going even so far, just a century ago, or less a century ago, when there was a shortage of urban population, the intense polyculture of subsistence was what this country ultimately supported. And, therefore, the farms had to have something of everything. The minifond – although limiting in some respects – therefore had a feature. Having plots with different productive orientations at different locations provided the diversity necessary for the polyculture and for another key element of the system, which was rotation. And all this was complemented also with the mountains in common, with the neighboring mountains; which were, ultimately, the fuel that now burns uncontrolledly in our mountains and which used to burn in the squares - as dung - as in the kitchens, in their homes. This system, therefore, for its sustainability, is true that it needed a great hand of work, which gradually ceased to exist. What's all this coming to? As I said before, what happened was a change of situation. I mean, this was like this because it was good that it was like this at a certain time. And now it's not good that this is how it is and, therefore, we have to change. I say that because I am not of those – at least not only – who believe that this is the fruit of a divine mandate – that it does not have to do with the attachment of Galicia to the earth, or it does not have to do with only that – nor with the intrinsic individualism of our Greek character, nor with all these things that we say, that they actually affect but that I believe they are not decisive. That was because it was good that it was so, just as it is not good now that it is so and therefore we have to do something to change it, nothing else; or, at least, in a large part. There was, therefore, a reason for that to be so. Second look. Then, in the middle of the 20th century, people left the farms, went to the urban areas. And, at present, the average size of farms – another fact that we also have to be clear, are data to which reference has already been made – is 8.15 hectares of agricultural land per farm. By comparison: Basque Country, 11,7; Asturias, 16,10; or Cantabria, 24,8; communities that do not differ to a large extent from what could be ours. And, well, if we compare – and I did some countries, because we have to compete with them – with France, it's 53.94; Germany, 55.84; and Denmark, 62.87. So that we might have the picture of who we have to compete with today and who we are competing with. So, also to reiterate the same, triumphalisms the righteous, because the work that remains is very difficult for us. In just two decades, 145,000 hectares less land area – from 1985 to 2005–. I took that data first for comfort, because they were like this; but also for us to extrapolate the subject of the crisis, the subject of all that. That is, from 1985 until 2005, when this country was an advanced country, when we were all advanced, we were modern, when many historic infrastructures were made to some extent ended with our isolation and huge problems were solved, we lost 145,000 hectares of useful agrarian surface. So, third element: maybe we lost them because, as a country, we wanted to lose them; or at least we didn't care enough or we didn't give it enough importance or we didn't put this problem as a fundamental problem to solve it. Because if we solved another kind of tremendously difficult problems during that time, we could also have solved this one; and yet we didn't. It is true – and here this aspect was put – that in that same period grew on 150,000 hectares the treed surfaces of pine and eucalyptus. But we can't even conclude that there was a linear transvasion of the 145,000 lost at 150,000 trees. By the way, of the 150,000 trees, 75,000 in agricultural soils of great agrarian capacity. This, of course, wasn't, at least, homogenous. I mean, it has nothing to do with what happened in Lugo, or in the province of Ourense and in some area of Lugo, what happened in other territories. So it's an element that we have to have there, but we would also be simplistic if we were to focus everything there. We must also not forget that during that time – I repeat – where there was no financing problem, a money problem, where budgets grew, in which, in some ways, we did not have the conditions that we have today, reduced the useful agricultural surface. Moreover, technological and technical changes were allowed and encouraged at a productive level that seemed or attempted to transfer the idea of land independence from farms. And that's what we all know, because there was a lot of theory that having land was neither decisive nor even important to having exploitation. The case is that, as far as it is concerned, the increases in input into farms, the wave of fires, the Community's agricultural policy... yes, we all agree, today no one puts it in doubt, in the importance of the land and land management element. We therefore also have to escape from this strictly sectoral vision and in which we often face – and I do want to keep track of this – the livestock sector with the forest sector. The maintenance of the useful agricultural surface must be a territorial objective and a matter of country. This country, at the bottom, has to decide whether it wants to make rational use of the productive possibilities of its territory or whether it prefers two things: to pay the bill to import products – between 250 and 300 million euros/year if we import cereals, only cereals – and to continue paying those 100 million euros annually to shut down the fires, which you and I have already discussed. I say that 1 out of every 5 euros from his office will go out to put out the fire year after year. I was going to say that depending on the weather, but what depends on the weather is their effectiveness. I mean, burn or not burn, we always pay 100 million dollars, regardless of weather. Therefore, the causes are many and diverse. The urban pressure has already made reference here to Mr. Sánchez, I agree, and therefore I will not sink into it either. But also, and undoubtedly for me it's the factor where I want to pretend, and what I thought this law would answer, for us, regardless of all these factors, the most important factor is abandonment. And, therefore, the first tool that we should have clear and what we have to fight cross-sectionally is against abandonment. There are many measures, many decisions that we have brought here to this House and that you and I have discussed, when we talk about the small aids, about the indigenous races that you have eliminated, when we talk about the ESC – what Mrs Peace has already spoken about – when we talk about small aids that point to those exploits which, therefore, depend exclusively on those subsidies. We're putting obstacles to these allocations, we're making them give up; and therefore we're making them leave the territory. If we agree that the problem is abandonment, we have to take as much attention as possible to farmers and farmers living there, not only as generators of wealth and employment, but also as acknowledging the role of managing the territory. And this, as it was said here before, or is done from a number of points of view or has no effect whatsoever. And what have you been doing these years, besides ignoring all these cross-cutting measures? So here's the example of concrete partial concentration programs, but let's go or broaden the look a little bit. I chose two measures: the infrastructure program, which also includes concentrations, but not only, and the Land Bank program. And we clearly see that decrease – since we have already talked a lot –, 60 million euros of reduction – I don't talk and I don't compare it with the bipartite – since Feijóo is president, from his first budget to his last budget. Land mobility, that is, the program called "Agrarian Land Mobility," we liquidate it with an average of one million is half. The truth is this year rose to three, but the average of the years was one and a half million euros. Therefore – I repeat – the main cause for us is abandonment. And I'm also going on the line of what Mrs. Paz said, that where we should focus the shot, beyond resizing the existing plots, it's in which other types of plots are incorporated. It therefore fights abandonment by targeting farms, giving them that relevant role for farmers and farmers as land managers, and, as a third element, an active policy, i.e. with political initiative and clear budgets. And not with pure and harsh legislation, which has also shown that it's not effective. And that's what you bring us here again today: a new law. After six years talking about the new law, indeed, I also expected something more. There's no need for this trip. I mean, six years to get this new law out as it comes. We were all waiting for something else. We hoped for a law that would have been, saving the differences – and I sincerely expected it to be greater than it was better or worse – in the style of what was the law of Extremes – in the philosophy of which it was wider – or in other autonomous communities, a real commitment to agricultural activity, to gain activity, and to the rural world, where even a percentage of the budget of the autonomous community is committed to agriculture, livestock and the rural environment. I was hoping for a law in that sense, and what we are now in Parliament is an amendment to the Parliamentary Merger Act, as has already been said here, probably necessary, certainly logical, because, if we are talking about the earlier law of the year 85, it seems clear that, although it was reformed in 2001 and also in 2010... of course, changes that we do not know very well for what they have done, because you have already modified the Parterary Recruiter Act in 2001 and 2010, but have not made any partial concentration with those changes. I mean, the concentrations were all done before, they were started; so we don't know very well enough for it to change. A modification of the partial concentration, in theory, is to make it more agile. The average duration of a concentration today is in fifteen years; therefore, it does seem simple and reachable, that we gave it down something. I mean, from 1985 to 2015 we changed something, but we're going to be wrong if we make that diagnosis. It's true that the law improves, it's true that there were certain insurmountable deadlines, but it's equally true that that wasn't the main problem for concentrations to last these long periods. The main problem was that there were not enough resources, Counselor, that we did not dedicate budgets, which this law does not come to guarantee at all. Moreover, he is in charge of the economic memory – as was also said here – of making it clear that the adoption of this law will not entail any kind of budgetary indebtedness. I mean, the main problem isn't solved by this law. The other new element is that it is loaded on those concentrations that you have decreed, that you have approved and that you have done – that you did not know very well what to do with them – because that was another of the problems that also existed: the way to decree concentrations as a propagandistic element, that each mayor had to have three or four concentrations. As the decrees cost nothing, then they died there in limbo that there was no continuing budget to make them. And also the use of partial concentrations as an element of urban reorganization, to make paths and infrastructure. So you can't move -- this group won't be an accomplice -- an idea of what it's not. You can sell a law that acts on a very specific and very small aspect of the problem, which you can't sell that law as a solution to the problem, as it would be a new failure and a new frustration. As far as the issue of coercive measures is concerned, nothing new, as was said here. By the way, tell Mr. Feijó what has already been said here, and let him repeat as a parrot who hears a sentence, which he is saying that the owners will have three options: either work the land, or rent it, or give it to the Land Bank. That's since 2007. Look what it took you to read the paper. How many cases did you act on those three options? I don't know any, and there's no need for data. Let's take a look around the car and we'll see one side and another case we should look at. By the way, Counsellor, the law that they have also changed, because they have already amended the previous Particulate Concentration Act and the Land Mobility Act, which modified the common masses to go to the Land Bank, which was the only aspect that they have changed. I mean, after all these changes, they haven't noticed that this is not a law issue yet. They still come here with a new change to keep dizzy, and to tell us and try to sell to the sector that you're doing something about this problem, which we're not going to be complicit.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u24	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u25	I'll give you a date. And of course I don't want to get into the debate of another camera. Lugo's deputy: €300,000 – i.e., what it costs you three quadrilles of city fires – with €300,000 last year in six months mobilized and incorporated to farms, mainly farmers, 800 hectares; not to clean them, but to sow them and make them produce. With €300,000, 800 acres, without changing the law, without making so much dialectic malabarism...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u26	Finish, please, Mr. García.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u27	...and without any kind of slogan, Counselor. Of course, with their handicaps and their inconveniences. But I think it's much more effective than what you're proposing here today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u28	Thank you, Mr. García. Non-amendant groups. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u29	Thank you, President. Good morning to all and to all. Good morning, Counselor. First of all, I would like to announce that I will vote in favour of the three amendments tabled by the opposition groups, since I believe that the reasons given in the three cases would already serve to justify the return of the bill to the Government. But, in addition, the biggest problem of this bill is the same as the general defect that has almost all the normative work of the People's Party, which usually manifests itself in the budget law. There's a permanent absence of a strategic project for the country, and for all of the productive sectors that we want to act on. It stops from a false or very partial diagnosis of the sectors on which it is intended to act. And when for bloody situations, unlimited alarming, if lines of action are established, they have such a small economic backing that they result in smoke, propaganda and fireworks. The draft legislation on improvement of Galicia's agricultural structure does not form part of a diagnosis of the present situation of agriculture and the causes of the decline in recent decades, in which the PP ruled the Union with only two brief breaths for our country. Much less speak of the common agricultural policy, which would put rubies on the parties of the regime, who evaluated and defended an entry into the common market in ruinous conditions for our agricultural land. The peasants and farmers were right when they shouted the "European Common Market, ruin of the Greek people" in the mobilizations of the 1980s and 1990s. The common market has assumed that almost the entire monopoly of food has been handed over to European multinationals. Dozens of thousands of agricultural holdings disappeared because peasants were literally driven out by dairy quotas. Rural abandonment did not fall from the sky, nor was it the fruit of the drag of an industry and a pulling trade, as happened in other latitudes. The increase in fires is not a consequence of any curse either. The aging of the rural population is not a curse either, nor is it a matter of chance. And without being aware of the causes that brought us here, up to this situation of true social, ecological and economic emergency in the Galician agriturismo, we can hardly remedy anything. I insist on what was the liquidation of the dairy sector because of the quantitative importance, and because we are about to see their situation worsen in this sector. The policies of the Union have been oriented in the last twenty-five years to conceal the liquidation of the dairy sector and agriculture, with modernization policies which have resulted only in the concentration of production on a small number of farms, on an insufficient territorial basis and increasingly dependent on the purchase of food for livestock. In addition, they had to rely on livestock holdings to buy quota, and now they feel logically cheated and, in many cases, at risk of disappearance. In good hours, green sleeves – it would be said – with the improvement of the land structure for many sheep and sheep. First they have liquidated the small farms because they are not modernized, and now they will let those who have modernized themselves die following the leadership of the PP government. In the distribution of direct aid and rural development, contrary to the triumphal tone of the Government of the United States, there are worrying objectives for Galicia. Galicia is charging only 3% of the direct aid from the CAP to Spain, when we get around 6% of agricultural production, and between 8% and 9% of farms and agricultural employment. If, in the previous period of the CAP, the Galician Rural Development Programme has counted EUR 1,500 million, in the new 2014-2020 period, according to the information of the Union itself, there will be EUR 1,187 million; that is, 300 million fall, 21% less. On March 30, the milk quotas are finished. Looks like the PP doesn't know about this, or at least he doesn't talk about it. The producers did do their homework. They are left to solve a problem that does not depend on them, which is access to the earth to have a territorial base that allows them to reduce the purchase of thought. But the reality is that this fact changes almost everything. It endangers current holdings that a responsible government would have to support and open up the opportunity to recover small holdings that could be a source of self-employment for people expelled from other sectors due to the economic crisis. From this problem and from these opportunities a year ago, the professor of the Applied Economy Department of the University of Santiago de Compostela, Edelmiro López Iglesia, said: "To make less dependent farms of the purchase of food for cattle and more based on the production of fodder could put his teeth to the problem of land, which is essential for our farming. It is also essential to consolidate a manufacturing industry in Galicia and to organize the relationship in the productive chain between owners, industries and distribution chains, which are governed by the law of the jungle." I brought the dairy sector into account because, as I said at the outset, it is necessary to think of the improvement of Galicia's agricultural territorial structure within a strategic plan for agriculture, and not to make a law to give death the ongoing partial concentrations and try to raise funds by tightening the sanctioning regime. If we think that agriculture must first be the main source of food for our citizens, then it's when it makes sense to talk about recovering the useful agrarian surface. But it also requires a German agro-industrial sector and not a fiasco, like the milk-food scam. As for the dairy industry, I don't think they've done their homework. Today we have a powerful dairy sector in production, with farms that are viable in the medium and long term in the European Union, but we have an extremely weak dairy industry in Galicia; and the one of the German capital, even more so. Galicia produces 40% of state milk. The dairy industry located in Galicia does not reach 10% in terms of employment and added value on the state set. And the German capital is in third place. That is, by producing 40% of state milk, the German capital industry accounts for 3% of the state. And if there isn't an industry that completes the productive chain, the Welsh dairy sector will remain vulnerable. It is up to the commercialization itself and short circuits, and it is known, and that you, the People's Party, have heard here many more times without ever hearing it, that when the Galician agribusiness becomes the main source of food many of the ecological dangers, such as fires, will decrease, the population of rural and the trade of villages will be recovered, and it will be a fundamental sector for sustainable economic recovery. To finish, by focusing on the text of the bill, you miss the most important thing, which is tax incentives. It would also regulate the protection of the rights of landowners without owners, who in many cases are owned by emigrants or children and grandchildren of emigrants from whom the PP only remembers when it comes time to raise votes for elections. And if it's not possible to locate the owners, let those lands pass to the parishes. But we left this for partial amendments. Finally, I would like to reiterate that I will vote in favour of the three changes to return tabled by the opposition groups, because it is worth such an important sector for our country, a sector so important to regain the dynamics, population, economy and the future of our country, especially within. It would be very important to withdraw this bill and to open a dialogue between all groups with the sectors and with citizenship to establish an agricultural law that really serves us to recover our agriculture, our milk quotas, our production and that is accompanied by an agri-food development that finally makes Galicia a power in a sector where it has many possibilities if it was not for policies that condemn it to disappear and depend on the multinationals and the thoughts that we have to buy out. For our part, nothing else, just ask the People's Party to think about the country for once and not think about their political elections. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u30	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs. García Pacín.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u31	Good morning. Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, ladies. Counsellor, the legal framework of the Feijóo stage initiated in the past legislation with the publication of the Land Mobility Act, and the Mountain Law continues today with the processing of this bill. Thank you, Counselor, for your contribution. These initiatives, with these regulations, continue to improve the productive capacity and viability of the economic sectors linked to the earth, with regard to the environment and natural values, as set out in their explanatory statement. The current regulations on the modification of agricultural structures have been instruments which have made significant progress in agriculture possible, but are now being repealed. We're talking about the Parliamentary Concentration Act, and also about its amendments, and the 11/1983 Act, of intensive action in rural parishes. Today, they're oozing the data that was achieved with the partial concentrations, with the changes that changed part of the reality of our neighborhoods. I really wanted to emphasize the work of the Administration and the owners affected, which were many and which saw considerably increased their bases of the farms where they existed and there are partial concentrations. You propose, Counselor, a very ambitious text with numerous news. You were talking about axile and short but more effective and functional procedures. It favours common management and use, Mrs. Peace, by farms or by agricultural groupings. It favours the management and resizing of farms with permutations and surface management. You were talking about the plans for the management of special vocations, the POPEVA, as a great novelty. Mrs. Peace, you raise the rank of law what you qualify as almost residual, partial restructuring from individuals. So far it was by decree, now it has the rank of law. Run costs will be reduced when you make the most of the existing network of paths. Rural core soils are also included in the performance perimeters as a great novelty. Tax benefits are established. Because here we talked a lot about sanctions and the sanctioning regime, but really the tax benefits if they can achieve the goals they pursue. And he also spoke of the socialist spokesman for the expiry of the decrees of partial concentration, which, after many years, had no significant progress. There are even some – I think I remember – four decades. But, you know, those processes were really affecting the owners of those lands. What is meant is to remove the prejudices or obstacles that they suffer when proceeding to do any management with these properties. And it's also a novelty, a requirement of this law, the objective methodology that is being pursued, which will identify requests for restructuring as suitable or not suitable for making truly effective and objective investments. Many news, Counsellor, not only regulations, as you said, but of spirit and philosophy, which apply in the processes of improving the structure of rural areas. I understand that the amendments tabled since the opposition are meant to be constructive, because I do not really know your proposal. But if he spoke, for example, the spokesperson for Alternative Galga de Left that this legislation cannot be classified as partial and insufficient. It's not just an amendment to the Particulate Concentration Act, Mr. Sánchez. It's not true that the Galician Mountain Law or the Soil Law Schedule come into contradiction with this new rule. I think they pursue the coherence that is being demanded from the needs shown by the owners. You're talking about forest pressures and pressures of land use in the reduction of the UAE. And you know that in the interpretations that you also make of the data of the INE, you don't really tell the whole truth, you speak of your own interpretation, of your own vision. You know there have been increases, major increases, on the useful agricultural area, on the basis of exploitation. Even though it is pursued that the surface would be useful to grow, and that's why these rules are all intended since the current administration. Data, ask me for data, Mr. Sánchez. For it is done in the efforts devoted to the current administration in relation to land mobility: 11,358 plots in 2014, with 5,848 hectares, which are available in the Land Bank, compared to 6,700 people who were incorporated on their own initiative, when the common masses, without mediating, without filtering, were able to increase the bureaucracy of the Land Bank, literally collapse the Administration. Those were the results you left on inheritance. And you're talking about not acting on the reforestation of land. I understand that since 2007 there have been 291 file sanctions for forest repositioning, with an average of 44.5 files/year. You can't say you're not acting, Mr. Sánchez. You're lying. Even if they have orders, as you know, Seaga to, this year 2015, with an budget, I think, around 15,000 euros, continue with these inspections and these processing of these files. Mrs. Peace, you in your amendment show a certain bite of chiringuitos from Bantegal. It really doesn't make an interpretation of reality, but the data are what they are, and 35% increase in land mobility since 2011, since the application of the Land Mobility Act, they come to confirm that the People's Party, the policies of the People's Party, are in the right direction. You can match the goal of having instruments that allow for the transfer of as much land as possible through their use or management, as you well say. What is also envisaged is the procedure of permutation and sorting, as I said before, that they are coming along with the previous and vigouring rules. Or the declaration of perimeters of abandoned lands: up to now you could declare abandoned estates, but now you can act in areas with larger surface. They claim that reading this project is disappointing, which is lacking real measures. In any case, you demand sufficient mandatory mechanisms for the execution of the reform of the structure by individuals. You're wrong that you're wrong, they want to keep forcing. I understand that what must be done is to keep moving, helping. The administration must be on the side of the administrators by promoting, but in no case by doing what is really intended, which is that individuals, groups and associations, as you spoke very well, manage in common but being the promoters. They say it's not useful or it won't be useful to incorporate a larger territorial base into farms unless they're available to access the property. I say that there are permutations, that there are surface rearrangements. You ask for mixed formulae, when management or common use by farms or groupings, if you grant them rights in the adjudication of new replacement farms, priority on new replacement farms over the preferred management areas. Real land use management is sought by improving technical and economic viability. Lowers the sanctioning regime, after simply covering it. But did it apply or did it not apply? Is it a collection or is it not a collection? It's similar to the existing one. Incoherence, Mrs. Peace. We don't want to be contradictory to rules coming from 2007, which are still in force and are intended to be carried out. Rematan claiming that it is an excessively regulatory law, since issues related to the procedure should be subject to regulatory development are introduced in its articulation. Do you remember, Mrs. Peace, when the Land Mobility Act was processed? This was the opposite argument that he used to criticize the proposed rule. If, at that time, the law presented, that project, was not legally appropriate, many questions were left for future regulations. Now it turns out that this does include too many regulations. I think it's all right here, and the question is to be able to criticize. The socialist amendment is based on its criticism of the lack of means available to develop the law. This is one of the demands of all groups, in which we can also agree. But let us remember that economic investments in the coming years are going to be the same, similar to those in the new RDP to the previous period. Indeed, when they have or have the same means in times that are economically quite different from those before, because it cannot be said that they are not betting on public funds on this subject. I need to make the request, although I know it's going to fall into a broken bag or wet bag: get in, gentlemen, help, propose, defend alternatives, and stop undermining the current executive's political initiatives when he's acting decisively to change reality and give solutions to current needs. His amendment, Mr. Garcia, is very weak argumentally, and it does seem that they have not sunk enough in the text presented, in the text above, or that they coincide with their philosophy and their demagogy. But, look, it was also rather simplistic the exposure you made here. Because I just had to get an article. You literally copied it and said it. I mean, we all know how to read. And the vision that you've posed here from the rural environment... we're really doing politics here, Mr. Garcia, not giving it data and looking... yes, ladies and gentlemen, we're doing politics by implementing all the management that we ideologically believe is convenient. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And not as Mr Garcia does, who brings here a political action, Mrs. Adam, a political action of the Lugo Deputy, where he chests up because he mobilized 800 hectares, 800 hectares in a second program, which will be more, because right now at the time we're implementing a second program to benefit those neighbours than compared to other neighbors... right, Mr. Garcia? [[Murmurs.]] It's not funny, it's not a question of laughter. I remember a lot about those checks that when I was a child were shared.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u32	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u33	That's really if they're electoralist measures. The useful agricultural area: 150,000 hectares of the country. And he's talking about this 800-hectare lord. For the truth is that this political performance will bring you political performance exclusively electoralist, but not for the benefit of all the lumens. Many interpretations have been made here, but I believe that the rigor of them is well given by the ideology of each group itself. Because it can't coincide with issues as relevant as those we're dealing with, they can't find a consensus, they can't find common objectives, which are intended for this bill, which are intended from the administration and which will have their fruit. But not only for the benefit of all landowners and the rural environment, but also for the whole citizenship, towards the whole community, which you will see in this new standard, consistent with the vigors, extend the useful tool that the Administration requires for its administrators. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u34	Thank you, Mrs. García Pacín. Replica of amending groups. For the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Paz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u35	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, I have to say that at the BNG we are very glad that we are finally allowed to become politicians in the German Parliament. And secondly, Mrs. Garcia Pacín, I have to tell you that to lie you must have a very good memory, and you don't have it. Because it comes here to saying that we qualify as excessively regulatory this law, which even says what time they practically have to meet in the advisory committee and that if they cannot go one, they can appoint a substitute, and cannot compare it with that we have criticized in the Land Mobility Act that you refuse to include in the law, in the text of the law – and they intend to develop it regulatoryly – that primarily the tax collectors of land from the land banks had to be the agricultural holdings, essentially those welcomed to plans for improvement and the incorporation of young people into agricultural holdings. There's a certain difference, Mrs. Garcia Pacín, and I don't come here playing the game of manipulation. Look, this law is absolutely an edified law. Because I'm going to tell you that you talked here about three or four things like great news from this law. It says that permutations are allowed. So far there was no possibility or was it forbidden in any law that any of these gentlemen around here and I could make a permut to increase our territorial base? Look, Mrs. Garcia Pacín, of course, I think that more lack of rigour cannot be established. And with regard to the issue of obligations, which we say that the law does not establish enough instruments to force other types of reorganization procedures of property, of course, we already know that the issue of urban soil for you is very important. Because from there surely come a lot of money from those which Mr. Bárcenas handled, and from the ground land come very little money from the bag of Mr. Bárcenas. You have no problem obliging the owners to participate in an area of urban soil distribution, but there is no problem in establishing instruments to force an absentee owner who has the lands, for example, in his abandoned Friol Town Hall, when at least there are farms that need them and the owner is in Barcelona without working the land, without caring for them or handing them over to the Land Bank. And that gentleman can actively boycott the economic development of the farms from where his lands are. And that doesn't matter to you. If I were on urban ground, they'd probably not mind forcing these owners. Look, we, of course, continue to maintain our amendment of return, because we believe that this law – which in practice simply requires a modification of the Particular Merger Act, which continues to be a single fundamental instrument, or as an instrument that is given the highest priority for the reorganization of our country's property and land, by the partial mergers – is a law that has nothing to do with the rural needs of today's farms or the possibilities of exploitation. It's a law that leaves out even experiences that have already been promoted in Galicia in relation to the mixed formulae of reorganization of the property, which they do get that lands that were abandoned are incorporated into the useful agrarian surface and incorporated into the exploitation by people who work the land. Look, another novelty you said is that you don't need more resources to run the partial mergers because you're going to take advantage of the existing road network. Was there any law until now that it prevented you from taking advantage of the existing network of roads? Were technicians so irresponsible so far that they decided to spend more and could spend less? There will be, Counsellor – and you know – concentrations, hundreds of concentrations, in which it is impossible to give access to replacement farms unless it is through the construction of the new road. And finally, we have to say that this project is nothing ambitious. First of all, because it only focuses on the partial concentrations as a fundamental element, because it does not have more human or material means of execution of those partial concentrations, because behind Mr.Núñez Feijó's speech there will be sanctioning instruments for those who have land and do not work, and for them to be obliged to make it available to those who work, there is a fallacy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u36	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u37	Because these instruments, identical, have existed since 2008 in full vigil and never used them. And finally, tax instruments. You've already spoken here, actually, and they're getting better, because you set an exemption that used to be 95% and goes to 100%. But if with the 95% exemption you couldn't mobilize any square meter of land, do you think that because that exemption is 100 percent, you're going to mobilize a lot more? This law lacks imagination, lacks political will, and especially lacks opportunity. It's a law that, after five, or six years...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u38	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u39	...of repeated announcement, it's absolutely no use, to dynamize the earth in our country. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u40	Thank you, Mrs. Paz. For the Parliamentary Group of the Left-wing Galician Alternative, Mr. Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u41	Well, if there's a replica, you'll have to replicate. Mrs. Garcia Pacín, you tell me that INE's data gives them interestingly, manipulatedly. See, since 2007 there has been a loss of 120,000 hectares of useful agrarian surface. You say the farms have increased their territorial base. Well, I'll tell you how they increased their territorial base. Of the 120,000 hectares that have been lost in this country, less than 15,000 have been stopped at the farms. So, the farms that survive, after many farms have been destroyed because of the lack of protection by public administrations, collect only a small percentage of the land area that is lost. That is the failure of land mobility policies. Because if those 120,000 acres were to stop 90,000 to the remaining farms, it would obviously be a success. But that's the failure, and there's the data, I'm not lying to you. Check them out and you'll see. Because, in addition, INE data say how many agricultural holdings have been lost. And, of course, the agricultural holdings that survive are because they've made a heroic effort to increase the size, because each time the perceived prices are lower, they increase the cost of inputs, such as thought and gas oil, and every time you have to work more, expand more, so you can survive, and continue to be indebted, and to continue in a very difficult situation. Because agrarian exploitation can't do like Bárcenas, sell the shares, and I'm going. You've got your life on agricultural farms and you can't escape. So you have to go ahead as you can. But many of them stayed on their way because they couldn't extend their territorial base. Many of them were destroyed, destroying jobs in rural areas and causing abandonment, which is also reflected in INE data, as I told you before, abandonment and aging. Is it not a drama for you that in this country 60% of the agricultural population is over 60 years old and that only 5% is under 40? Does this mean a good basis for the future of this country's agribusiness? Wouldn't that mean taking drastic steps to rethink all the policies that you've been doing in recent years? We believe that yes, we believe that previous policies have a result, and that with the same methods we will have the same result. If we want different results, we have to change those policies. You talk about data, you talk about stimuli and sanctioning regime. Everything in this law was in greater or lesser measure in the past, and they didn't apply it. That's what we're talking about, that's what we're talking about, you want to pass a propaganda law. Because what you had before didn't apply it yourself, they didn't do it, just like the agrarian reforestation. Look, you've also tried to give some biased data. Of course there are 291 files, 291 complaints, of which 44. How many are solved and actually executed, Mrs. Pacín? Why don't you get that data? How many are actually executed? 44? No, that's the real data we can read, too. And you say that the Law of the Land and the Law of the Mountains are not contradictory. How is it not contradictory that in the Law of the soil the star urbanistic figure of the Law of the soil is the urban expansion and that any general plan, simply based on rational urban development – to see how rational urban development is defined – can re-align any kind of rustic soil, including agrarians? How are you going to solve the fact that in this country in the last twelve years 60,000 hectares of the best soils of agronomic aptitude A, B and C were for urban use? How? How, if in the new Land Law it is generally allowed for urban recalibration, which not only leads to reality but generates expectations and raises the price of the earth – which is another of the problems that you will tell me how they will solve this law? And the really important thing is that no law itself solves the problem. If you don't have political will and don't put human and economic resources to apply it in reality, it'll be of no use. And with regard to economic resources, since Mr Feijóo's arrival, the resources devoted to partial concentration have been exponentially reduced. And, as was said here, none of the changes they've already made had any impact on the partial concentrations. And you yourself, in the economic memory of this law, say they're going to devote half of the economic resources of what's been spent so far, half of the average. And then, with these smaller economic resources, you're trying to convince us that this law is going to solve the problems...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u42	Please finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u43	...of the land structure of this country. We think it's not, and that's why we say it's a coat of hair, that there's no will. Because, even above, you face with absolute simplicity a problem that is complex. There is nothing to be done about improving the agricultural structure unless there are parallel measures to improve the profitability of farms, if there are no measures to encourage the incorporation of young people into rural areas, if not measures to improve marketing. Because if there's no profitability, if people can't live out of the country, why do we make partial concentrations? And in those fields you have brought nothing. They brought dairy food, they brought the cuts from the comarcas agricultural workshops, which should be the rural farmers of this country for young people.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u44	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u45	And you're dismantling it. So don't come to our hair and say, "Let's pass this law, we've done it." No, you have to have and you have to implement policies to make reality what's put into the DOG. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u46	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr. García.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u47	Thank you, President. Mrs. Pacín, I'm sorry to have the unbelievable habit of reading. The truth is that reading documents is tremendously harmful and it's something unforgivable, and therefore I beg your pardon. Welcome to the world of politics in any case. I'm so glad you're talking about politics here. No doubt, he'll assume a turning point in the debates as far as the rural environment is concerned from now on. Counselor, I want to point out – because we're not going into the data either, which I think we don't need too much data or we're incarcerated – what I told you before. I don't think anyone going out in this country, and you don't need to get down, you don't need to step down, you don't need to put your boots, you need to put your boots in the car and walk this country through certain areas, what I'd say is that along and wide this country you see that we have a problem of abandonment and a problem of land mobility. And, therefore, we don't need to be a statesman – and that we should all agree – to see that we actually have a problem, and that other territories don't have it. There are natural borders that we pass through to other regions where we see that there is an exploitation of the land that we don't have here. So we're anxious to discuss those figures, I think it's out of all reality. And I told him, and that's the point, that if you, Counsellor, were to pose this law as a law of improvement of reform, a new reform of reform of partial concentration, I would have very few arguments to ask for the return. Moreover, I would have to agree, because, in fact, a partial concentration process is simplified, which I repeat is logical and makes sense after so many years and after so many changes that have not served at all. So in that respect, nothing to say. The problem is that you've been on this globe for six years and the problem is that, after six years, the text doesn't answer for anything you say, what Mr. Feijóo repeats already – as I said before – like a rabbit without knowing very well what he says. Because what you're saying is already written since 2007 and it's nothing new to anyone who's read at least. It's true that few read, Mrs. Pacín. Anyone who'd read, I'd already read it. So that's the problem of this text, that's the problem we ask for the return. Because what we can't be complicit in a new frustration and new law, a new change, which has no political initiative. And then, Counselor – I've given you data before and it's not a matter of repeating myself – the political initiative has so far shone out because of your absence and there's nothing new that seems to indicate that this is going to change. By the way, the data will be soft when we have them. Mrs. Pacín, there will never, ever, be more funds for the PDR and for this than there have been. No, there won't be. There won't be, and so when there's no, we'll come here and say it. In fact, there won't be them, and so I think it's going against a wall, and a wall won't go away. Another aspect that I told you, three aspects that had changed. The one of the common masses... of course, Mrs. Pacín, who was the increase that the Land Bank had. I mean, with the modification, you made it possible for the common masses of mergers to pass to the Land Bank. That's what has increased the activity of the Land Bank since that change, the common masses. It's relatively simple. They were located, they were concentrated, they were part of a partial concentration, and it was quite simple that they joined the Land Bank with a little paper. In the private management of the Land Bank, the truth is, he didn't give much more of himself than he did. So, Mrs. Pacín, I think that's the case. And they changed it to something else. They charged, when they amended the Land Mobility Act, the areas that had been decreed and declared areas of agricultural interest, therefore with specific measures and a concrete action plan and where to invest and where investments were to be accentuated. And they loaded these but they didn't develop any more. Since then, those -- you might not like them, and that could make sense -- but they didn't declare others. And now they come to us with a new law that says that zones will be declared and that I will pretend in certain areas. But, Counsellor, if they had taken them since 2007 to do these, or if they didn't like them, they changed them, and if you changed a law to charge those decrees, because they could have decreed other things, which we have not known so far. And finally, Mrs Pacín, look – and I do not intend here to support the debate that they will have in Parliament – was an example of that with €300,000 – I say, which costs three municipal brigades for roasting, three brigades for roasting – if they have become active and produce 800 hectares for farmers. He would like this government, in any of those political measures, to have that quality-price relationship, because we are not just browsing through the optimization of resources. In terms of price... i.e., if you put 800 acres at EUR 300,000, multiply what this advisor has spent – if you really want to make effective measures – and how many could be working. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u48	Thank you, Mr. García. Debate taken into account by the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, amending Law 2/2012, of 28 March, Welsh general protection of consumers and users, for the introduction of the concept of energy poverty and measures for its eradication
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u49	To present this bill, you have the floor to Mrs. Adam.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u50	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Start this really comforting intervention of being able to check how the full-time German Government is concerned about energy poverty, about the difficulties that families have in coming to the end of the month. We understand, of course, that there is a need to reduce time for initiatives. [[Applause]] It's true, because the Government gives it a job to be here in Parliament that can't be done. That's right, it's a very intense day to greet in Parliament's halls, but of course not to attend to the House. So, cheered up, I'm going to defend a law that aims to make each stick stand by his sail. I'm going to defend a law that aims to ensure that there are no supply cuts to people who can't afford electricity in Galicia. It is true that this amendment to the Law of Consumers in Galicia comes a year after Mr. Feijóo's announcements that he would already invent the magic formula of less to do more to end energy poverty. It also comes one year after the amendment of the Electric Sector Act, and several years after different European directives stated that the Member States must end the power supply cuts. But the truth is that Galicia still exists, and the latest data are alarming about energy poverty. We're talking about about half a million people who can't handle their bills. I mean, in a country like Galicia, rich in electricity production, with an ability to export about 40% of that electricity production, because we're talking about a very important part of the population cannot cope with the payment of light. Just some data for reflection. In 2009, there were 19,700 homes in Galicia that had no income. In 2014 there are 31,000 homes that have no income. But at the same time – including yesterday's data – light, water and gas rose triple that wages – from those who have them, not from these homes in which they are with all their members in unemployment and without benefit. Exactly, the light is 70%, the water is over 50%, and the gas is over 30%. Of course, this way we can find frightening data, as we can read today, that childhood gallops in homes where no one works has doubled since the beginning of the crisis. And in the meantime, how do we have the receipt of light, the one who was going to decrease? Minister Soria, relativizing the rise of light – 3% in January – considers that it is not too much, that 17% rise compared to the interannual receipt of light during 2014, comes to say in statements these days, it is not for that too. We could call this "Homer Simpson moment," because it says, "Given the adverse weather conditions, there was no wind, less hydraulic energy, because the normal thing is that the receipt of light rises." Because, as we have a receipt of light, of course, assumed by the whole population, because this is normal. In addition, it stays so calm and says, "An energy system that accumulates a rise of 70% in ten years is not economically and financially sustainable." And these are at least the statements I had found in the press, as if this had not been with the Minister of Energy, as if it had not been with the minister who is increasing – although he said no – the receipt of light. In this situation of growing poverty, rising electricity, we find ourselves with reports that tell us about energy poverty. From the latest report by the Environmental Science Association I'm going to read the data so we know how we're in Galicia, or the situation that exists in Galicia. The percentage of German households with domestic energy expenditure above 10% of the income was similar to that of the rise in the Spanish average. But the percentage of households with disproportionate domestic energy expenditure has increased sharply since 2007 in Galicia. In 2012, 18% of the homes in Galicia had domestic energy spending above 10% of the income. Why this 10%? Because all the definitions say that households, people, who spend more than 10% of their income on electricity and gas bills are at risk of energy poverty. This is a definition not only taken up by different European parliaments, but also by all scientists who know about this subject. So, we're talking about that right now – with the data we have, because the German Government has not done any kind of study in this regard – 18% of the Greek homes are at that risk of energy poverty. What would have been – as I said before – about 455,000 people in Galicia have difficulty paying bills for electricity and gas. If we look at the right temperature in the dwellings, it's true that in Galicia we have a problem to have housing at an adequate temperature, which we understand, in addition, that goes between 18 and 21 degrees. We're not inventing anything new either. We just have to go to scientific reports. And there we find ourselves talking about nearly 200,000 people who don't have their homes at that right temperature. Consequences of this: greater risks of disease, greater risks to populations such as childhood or older and dependent people. And to give data assumed by the scientific community, I will also read what appears in this report concerning Galicia, which believes that, with the latest data, the average deaths associated with energy poverty in recent years has increased to 800 people per year. If these were 200 in 1996, we are currently talking about 800 people who can potentially die in Galicia because of the energy poverty they suffer. You think of the comparison that is usually made with traffic accidents, the consideration of traffic accidents, and the consideration of deaths due to energy poverty. So, we're in a serious problem, a serious problem that, in addition, we can't find this data disaggregated by gender in any of the studies. But in the small or mini-report of gender impact carried out by the General Secretariat of Equality before this bill, the General Secretariat of Equality asserts that, in fact, according to the data, single-parent families in Galicia are of the order of 80% female, who are families with higher risk of poverty. And so it concludes the gender impact report itself that measures to eradicate energy poverty have a higher impact on women's population and can therefore contribute indirectly to the reduction of inequalities. I here, if I may, would also correct the report myself, and I would say that they can contribute "directly" to the reduction of inequalities. Therefore, in the extensive European legislation we can see two directives in 2009 and two new directives in 2012, and all referred – I read textually – to: "To obtain national action plans or other appropriate frameworks to combat energy poverty, in order to reduce the number of people suffering from this situation and to define the type of vulnerable consumer or consumer, to include the protection of the prohibition of disconnection of such customers in critical periods." For today neither in Galicia nor in the Spanish state are these directives being developed, when others do have enough to develop them. We're still facing the possibility that if you're currently giving an electric power supply cut without the Welsh Government, the German Government, doing anything. We can have different reports, even in November the Ombudsman himself alarmed and urged that serious and real measures be taken against energy poverty. In Galicia we had, as I said at the beginning of my intervention, an exhibition by the president of the board in which he was talking about that electric-social ticket, which really was a accumulation of work for the municipalities – then we'll talk about it – but that really didn't serve to alleviate energy poverty at all, by the ridiculous amount of the story itself of this ticket, by the difficulties that made people who had to ask for it. I just want to remember that this ticket had to be requested with electronic DNI and all of its documentation via electronics. For example, people who charge Risga cannot have access to the Internet at home, because only having such a connection has already deprived them of risk. So we actually live in a very clear digital divide in Galicia and also recognized even as a factor that supposedly understands the administration of well-being that increases wealth. How is it possible that then people who can't afford the light should be forced to do everything electronically? Well, one more way to put a stop to that electric ticket request. But that ticket in either way guarantees that there were no supply cuts, for example, during this month of January and this month of February, so cold. That is why we bring this bill, with a first part that it does – as I said before – is clearly defining what is the definition of energy poverty, so that we are all talking about in the same parameters as we understand: "A unit of coexistence is in a state of energy poverty when it has to allocate more than 10% of its income to meet energy needs. For the previous calculation, the theoretical energy expenditure will be considered to maintain housing temperature between 18 and 21 degrees." We think this definition can be improved, I don't know if it's questionable, but it's assumed right now by all the experts and experts on energy issues and social issues. Surely the following article, Article 8a, will be taken up with greater discussion by this House, since what is put in place are concrete measures to avoid cuts in the supply of light. Four different measures are announced to prevent these supply cuts, assuming the necessary relationship between the distributors and the Greek administration, the obligation of the Government of Greece to avoid such cuts of light, and, lastly, if necessary, the Government of Greece itself by carrying out these bills of light and gas if people who are no longer in energy poverty can not assume them and if they are told that this company will cut them. We believe that in Galicia, a country rich in electricity production, a country that exports electricity to the cliff, which sees its receipt of light increased – just like all the other territories of the Spanish State, because the People's Party does not want to talk about the possibility of a Greek electricity tariff – it cannot be maintained having people who cannot afford the light. After seeing all our nation inzada of high-voltage lines, of rough valleys, of seeing also all the environmental costs that exist, how is it possible that today there are 455,000 people who are on two sails, who don't have to pay the bills of light? It is true that the reports claim that unemployment unemployment and rising unemployment have greatly increased the risk of energy poverty. There was also no need to do too much thorough analysis to realize that people who don't have any incomes will necessarily have a lot of unpaid bills. But the truth is that even a conception of electricity is not as a public good, but as a benefit to the great multinationals of electricity, which put their rules of play at their disposal and that simply what governments do is to ratify them in the BOE, because it leads to this situation, which we have to come to the House asking for something that is fair: that people have light to be able to live. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u51	Thank you, Mrs. Adam. Round of parliamentary groups. Joint Parliamentary Group. Mrs. Churches.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u52	Good morning. Thank you very much, President. She has the impression that the rulers live on the edge of reality, who live in a bubble of comfort and well-being that makes them ignore the terrible realities that are happening. European Poverty and Energy Efficiency is a project co-financed by the European Commission with the aim of identifying and understanding the meaning of energy poverty, quantifying those cases in this situation and looking for those mechanisms that help to deal with them in several European countries, including Spain. European Poverty and Energy Efficiency in its study sets out the causes and consequences of this new form of misery. Causes: low income; unemployed people, those who have precarious jobs and/or beneficiaries of social benefits are the most affected. Secondly, the housing, which does not have heating or insulating materials and/or has moisture; a type of housing inhabited by people who are victims of the crisis with insufficient income. The price of energy, third cause; energy poverty turns out to be in a vicious continuous circle that forces those people with lower incomes to live in housing in terrible conditions of comfort. Besides, increases in energy prices make it even more difficult for these people to pay their bills. Consequences. First: risks and impacts on physical health; the most affected are children and children, elderly and chronic diseases; and the most common pathologies: asthma, bronchitis, pneumonia and even tuberculosis; it may also occur that you are using unsafe methods to keep warm that can lead to poisoning and even fires. Second consequence: risks and impacts on mental health; living in a house in poor conditions causes anxiety, leads to exclusion and social isolation and loss of self-esteem for not being able to find solutions. Third consequence: housing degradation; for example, the more wetter wetter wetter wetter wetter wetter wetter wetter wetter wetter wetter wetter wetter wetter wetter wetter wetter wetter wetter wetter wetter wetter, a lost fight, a cycle that goes back to power. Fourth consequence: excessive debt; low-income families have serious difficulties paying their supply bills and accumulate debts whose payment limits after being able to deal with other basic needs such as food or transport. In Galicia 100,000 households suffer from energy poverty, 800 people die a year because of this tear and 455,000 households have serious difficulties in paying for the receipts of light and gas. The figures tell us about frozen houses, we saw a shameful panorama for the rulers themselves. Furthermore, both by its eminently domestic and especially diffused character and by its close interrelationship with other forms of poverty and social exclusion, energy poverty is a practically invisible reality – ladies and gentlemen, open your eyes, please, to public administrations, to non-governmental organizations and businesses and other relevant actors. To conclude, I want to read from this lecture to the communiqué on energy poverty that the Yayoflauts collective issued in 2013 in one of their protests and fights against this social scourge. And he says, "Now we shout together because their wealth is our poverty, because their profits leave us cold, because cold are their calculations and calculated their winter. Because poverty isolates us, sinking into loneliness and the shame of having to listen as in the food banks are already asking the needy food that doesn't need energy to be prepared. Because without being able to put on the heating while it's freezing time, it's done for what it pulls out. Because the energy oligopolie earns billions of euros. Because the government's power is being assaulted by the wiring politicians of arranged hunting, by the interests of both concave and spousal. Because energy poverty freezes our conscience. Because energy is a fundamental right, because this winter thousands of families can't put on heating, cooking or lighting. Because the greed of oligopolie grew and with it the bill of light. Because unemployment is unchallenged, wages go down and their yearning to seize everything and everyone responds to a boundless and irrational bulimia. We scream because before their winter we must oppose the heat of our grips, because our pain cannot be past their impunity, because there is energy for all. Because we are all energy that cries out that this winter the theft of our rights does not perpetuate their profit account. Because there are more social alternatives, cheaper, more environmentally friendly, sustainable and supportive. Because it is shameful that the Government of all abandons us to the interests of a few. Because the figures of energy poverty embody the voices of the children who couldn't rest well before going to school, or of the elders whose life expectancy is diminished because one in ten families is suffering from energy poverty and cannot meet their basic energy needs. Today we shout together against energy poverty, which is nothing more than the violation of our collective rights by the energy oligopolie and the governments of the PP. Because raising the bill so many times a year is to challenge the heat of more than two million homes. Because there's no justification for eradicating the renewable sector that generates native energy by undermining the price of electricity. And we scream because everything is avoidable. So that their winter may not perpetuate itself and bind us to the loneliness of a home which is overwhelmed by their greed and irresponsibility. But your impunity, ladies and gentlemen of the Government and of the PP, is ending. We're going for our heat in this cruel winter of opulence, little is left to you and your accomplices." This honourable Member will support the bill. Thank you very much, but nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u53	Mrs. Martínez. Well, thank you very much, Mrs. Martínez and Mrs. Iglesias. Parliamentary Group of the Left Galician Alternative. Mr. Fajardo Recoso has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u54	Good morning to all and to all. To govern it is necessary to have a minimum of empathy and now that we live cold days, now that everyone we sit in this House seems normal to us that when we get home we can light the light, even having a nice temperature, it turns out that that this seems normal to us and should seem normal to the members of the Government of the People's Party – because when we are discussing a topic like energy poverty there is neither the welfare advisor nor the president himself, and the only counselor who is who is delighted to greet everyone for their new condition but unable to solve this problem – clearly detects that the People's Party and those who rule us give them the same situation that causes energy poverty. And energy poverty means that in this country about half a million people have to decide between eating or going cold; it means that in over 100,000 homes in this country every night there are children who have to sleep with lots of blankets on and with diseases that they wouldn't have if they were able to get heat in their homes. But that energy poverty is not a random poverty, it's not a plague because these people behave badly. Energy poverty has to do with the policies of the People's Party and those that ruled us, who preferred a sector like electricity to be in the hands of private monopolies, companies that were public, that actually those governments rule for them and not for the people who go cold. And there are three factors that we need to take into account to combat energy poverty, and the three that can be solved, but, in view of these factors, the policies of the People's Party have been to look elsewhere and continue to legislate so that the electricity gets more and more benefits every day. One first factor is the situation of our country's housing, its isolation deficiencies, but, instead, the only program that would solve that situation, as it was that program to combat insurvival, was eliminated by the People's Party. There was a program with small amounts, but quantities, so that those people who had difficulty in their homes could have access to that funding to improve the isolation of their homes. The People's Party decided that this was not a priority and eliminated it from budgets. The second problem is the price of energy. Only this year, from January 2014 to January 2015, has increased by more than 20 percent, and therefore this is a political decision of the People's Party, which decided that the electricians cover us more for something we can't help but pass, which is to spend electricity on our homes, decisions of the People's Party that already have to do with that amendment of Mr. Mouse's Electric Law. But the third – and perhaps the most important – is the impoverishment of our population. Since the crisis began, wages have not only had a situation of not improving, but what increased light meant five times more than wages have risen. Only since the crisis began did the light grow by 70% at its cost. And, therefore, those issues that would have a sufficient solution if we had a solvency government involved in their people's problems, they would now have a definitive solution. But we have an unworthy government, unworthy of its citizens, because unworthy is to be part of a government that when debate on energy poverty prefers to flee and not be when we talk about a situation that can cause death. We're not talking about comfort, we're not talking about comfort or comfort in homes. We're talking about that in our country about 1,000 people can die prematurely because of lack of energy capacity. We're talking about that only last winter has passed from 63 to 84 fire deaths by using what's called cheap heat; we're talking about 25% more deaths caused because people don't have the ability to heat their homes and use inadequate mechanisms. We are therefore talking about political decisions that cause death, as many times have been said in this country. That's right, when death is done beyond our borders caused by violence, it acts immediately; when violence is carried out by the electric companies held by the governments in turn against their society, the solutions are not given. And we're not, therefore, in the face of a minor problem. A decent government would have this in the first place in its agenda, or at least in the second, but an indecent government has this situation in a lost place in its agenda. Many times these situations have been discussed here, and many times the People's Party has also voted against each of the proposals that were intended to bring about a solution to this situation. And we put it on the alternative table to solve the problem. The first is a moratorium, a universal truce. It can't be that in a country like ours cut off the light, the gas, the water, the people just because they can't pay. Social assistance should be implemented immediately to solve this situation and to allow our people to pay their receipt. But do you know what happened, for example, to emergency aid last year? In the emergency aid budget there were 4 million and a half, this government just spent 1,115,000. That's the reality of the People's Party. He can't even take care of those things that are the most necessary. But, above all, this is all solved by providing enough income for the Greeks and the Greeks. It's good to share alms, it's good to take our hair, it's good to tell us that there's no money, but if there's, for example, there's to lose 9,000 million in the rescue of Novagalicia Bank and to be unable to rescue families from the cold, the misery and the situation that causes energy poverty. So we are facing a serious problem, and we want to solve that problem. We think it's appropriate, certainly improved, the proposal of the Galician Nationalist Block, but we have to go further. We are a radical organization, and when I say radical, we go to the root of the problems, and here's the problem with the electricity in this country. The electricians were public, but someone, the parties that ruled us, decided to hand them over to the corporations to do what they wanted. They decided that with public money they would build embalms, that with public money they would throw people out of their lands, that with public money they would also drown those lands. And when it was done with public money, they decided to hand it over to the private company, so that they directly and freely put the prices they wanted, those prices that we can't run away from, because we all need electricity to live. Well, that's the root of this problem. And, in addition, they allowed these companies to benefit themselves, they allowed them freedom so that these companies could put the prices they wanted. Why? Because you're the footman of the power companies. And it's not random this reality. It's not random that one of the problems has to do with the price of energy. The turn door. I'm just going to give some names of members of the People's Party who have ruled and are now part of the board of directors of the electricity companies: Ana Palacio, Ángel Acebes, Hernández Mancha, Isabel Tocino, José María Aznar, Marcelino Oreja, Pio Cabanillas, all of them members of the governments of the People's Party that are now part of the board of directors of the electricians, who decide to increase our receipts and, in addition, decide that the one who does not pay will be cut, even if that causes his death. But they've also invented the thymus, like the theme of the tariff deficit. Or are they able to force the electricians to return the more than 3,000 million euros charged to citizens of the whole state?, 3,000 million euros charged too much and therefore they should be returned to each of the citizens, but you don't. You, when you have to decide between the powerful and the suffering, always decide for the powerful. You, when you can make a decision that avoids more than 900 deaths in our country, you decide that you don't have to take that solution, you decide that the benefits continue to be for the electric companies, who are plundering the whole of our citizenship. So we can and must support this initiative today, which only says two things quite simple. First, we define that it is energetic poverty – those families who spend more than 10% of their income on paying for supply – and we decide, at least, that these families have the assurance that they will not be cut off from their supply. But in this country we continue to cut off their supply. In this country it turns out that our water, our sun, our lands, which are used to generate energy...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u55	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u56	...that they are all privatized, and, in addition to being privatized, they are allowing benefits that do not even remain in Galicia and that they will ultimately stop those electric companies that soon appear with those accounts in Switzerland, with those Falcian lists, with those bribe lists to those who rule us. They decide, once and for all, to rule for citizenship or remove the face and come, as I've ever told them, in plan Fernando Alonso, with the suit, with the companies that promote them – Iberdrola, Natural Gas – and therefore, at least, the citizenship will be clear to you. I ask them once and for all to stop being hypocritical and take off their face and show that they don't defend the Greeks and the Greeks here, but to defend the Natural Gas, the Iberdrola and all those who allow them to sit in those chairs.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u57	Thank you very much, Mr. Fajardo. Socialist Group. Mrs. Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u58	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. The fact is that the latest Community directives, which concern both the internal market standards for electricity and the internal market for natural gas, already contain specific provisions so that Member States can adopt, without having to make any legislative changes, measures to address the issue of energy poverty and the protection of the most vulnerable consumers. But just as this is true, it is also true that the Government of Spain has made legislative changes to adapt to these directives in other matters, but for nothing it has included within the forecasts of state legislation issues related to energy poverty or the protection of vulnerable consumers, although I insist that they could be applied immediately if there was something that does not exist at all, which is political will. From the Socialist Parliamentary Group we are going to accept, support, the consideration of this bill presented today by the BNG, on many issues. First, because we have been doing here repeatedly in this Parliament because of the need to address the problem of energy poverty, through amendments to the budgets of the Galician Union each year – always systematically rejected by the People's Group – and also through initiatives in Commission 6a, basically, and in Commission 5a, in committees dealing with both energy issues and poverty. We agree with Mrs. Adam in the definition of energy poverty. Indeed, this definition in which a consumer spends more than 10 % of his income on energy consumption is a definition that is commonly accepted, is also accepted at Community level; therefore, it is an understanding in which we agree that it is fair. And we understand that this proposed law is covering an ejacism that has the current autonomous legislation of the year 2012, where the concept of energy poverty has not been seen – if it is said of vulnerable consumers. We have been proposing – not only here in the Galician Parliament, but also at the state level – to legislate it, indeed, as a bill, so that both light and gas, as butane and propane, be a basic social right, so that vulnerable consumers and consumers can access a social tariff on the basis of their incomes, and not on the basis of the electricity market, so that there are no supply cuts in winter for those who are in a situation of energy poverty and for the difference between social tariff and real consumption to be financed through public budgets, public budgets, in State cases and in others because of their own autonomous communities. Mrs. Adam referred to the survey of living conditions of the National Institute of Statistics, which I am not going to keep referring to, because she has already given all the data, but if she draws attention to two questions that touch me and that I think we should all be moved, right? And it's actually that the average deaths associated with energy poverty in Galicia have increased since 1996; then there were 200 people a year, and now, the year 2011, best said, which is the last measure, we were already in 800 people a year. And that 455,000 people are in Galicia in the definition of what is energy poverty. I believe that these two data are more than enough to be able to address this issue seriously and to act from the Government of Galicia so that these people who are in energy poverty wouldn't have to be. I insist that it could be done if there was political will, even without this bill, but obviously there is no. There isn't because the solution given by the Government of Galicia to this problem of energy poverty is the electric social ticket. I've been talking here many times about the electric social ticket because of the debates of poverty. And the truth is, I've spoken here to ridicule him – and it's no less. We are talking about an aid of 45 euros every six months, that is, 90 euros a year – if they give it a whole year – to a family in problems of poverty and social exclusion. A help that needs to be requested – as Mrs. Adán said – via telematics, that a report from social services needs to be requested in the council – that of itself is saturated with everything that is going on in our country with regard to poverty in general –, which must be accompanied, in addition, by a series of documents that most seem to be processing – the person who is asking for EUR 45 for six months, or EUR 90 for one year – an aid, an investment to build an industrial vessel or to build an agricultural facility or a fishing vessel – we are going. It's practically the same documentation that one person is asked for for for these 45 euros as for an industrial project. Well, this is all too light. What's happening is that there are lots of families that are going cold in their homes, that can't cook in their houses, that have already cut their light, and those that haven't cut them are because there are municipalities where there are sensitive municipal governments that are replacing, as always, the obligations that the Galician Union would have to have and that are in many cases paying those light receipts because the Galician Union does not want to take on this problem with all its cruelty. True, Mr. Feijóo's government doesn't want to talk about poverty, much less poverty with surnames, energy poverty. We have this data every year in the budgetary debate, in the debate on autonomous policy. People in poverty and at risk of social exclusion do not stop growing since Mr. Feijóo arrived in Galicia; poverty has increased in our country; we now have more than 600,000 people in Galicia, which is the same as saying the whole of the provinces of Ourense and Lugo, in situations of risk of poverty or social exclusion, and on the contrary, we have public aid, both of social emergency and of inclusive income, absolutely insufficient to cover all the people who have problems. We have 55,000 homes in which no income enters and the Government of Greece dedicates this year to provide the income of social inclusion of Galicia, to reach 10,000 people, 10,000 people, when we have – I insist – 55,000 homes in which no income comes. Obviously, insufficient and far away from other autonomous communities around us, which devote 60% more resources to the fight against poverty and social exclusion, as is the case with Asturias, when they have a percentage of poverty, measured at the AROPE rate, below the Galician rate, which I have to remember is at 23.58% right now and which has increased by 20% since Mr Feijóo's rule. So, I hope, Mrs. Adam, that for this time the Government of Galicia and the People's Party that supports the Government of Galicia are sensitive, that I agree to take this bill into consideration, that – I tell you – we will support and if we have the fortune that it has been dealt with, of course we would introduce some more questions in the articulate of it. But I'm afraid it's going to happen to you what happens to the initiatives that we are presenting in this Parliament, and also to a bill that I want to refer to because I think it's an important milestone, which was the proposal for a law on the protection of vulnerable consumers and against energy poverty that the Socialist Group, in this case at the Congress of Deputies, introduced last year, which was debated in October of the year 14 and which the People's Party rejected. I hope that's not the fate of his, because there are 55,000 families in Galicia that don't enter any income and there are 455,000 people in Galicia right now in a state of energy poverty. And I believe that, with those figures, it is time for the Government to take some action and for the People's Parliamentary Group to compromise. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u59	Thank you very much, Mrs Gallego. People's Parliamentary Group. Mr. Farinas Sobrino has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u60	Thank you very much, Madam President. I want to begin by expressing once again the solidarity of the People's Parliamentary Group with those affected by energy vulnerability. Likewise, to make a demonstration, a declaration of unbreakable commitment to solving this tremendous scourge that affects people vulnerable by energy in Galicia. We are now presented with an initiative which, despite the arguments used here today, seeks to change, amend Law 2/2012, of consumers and users, in respect of a terminology that is called energy poverty, but which is terminology that is not accepted in any country of the European Union, that the European Union itself, in its opinions, in its reports, in its directives, describes as "vulnerable consumers". And with regard to this definition, which is even accepted by the Economic and Social Council of the European Union, and several reports, which it would be good to quote here are these reports from scientists, because I also have reports from scientists that say exactly the opposite, independent reports, such as the definition that makes the consumer vulnerable, and in the ten countries that have adopted social measures – including Spain – to combat energy vulnerability, or the eight countries that have transposed terminology into their legal order, it is unanimous, unanimous, the sense of energy vulnerability and at the same time the definition of people who are unable to pay sufficient supplies with their income or when that payment assumes a breakdown of their economies in such a way as to cause shortcomings in other basic needs. You enter here, based on the British method of Fuel Poverty, right, referring to 10 percent of those who pay an energy receipt, and that this causes energy poverty in your opinion. Well, only in the British Isles, and referring to heating, is accepted that terminology. In the Hills report, for example, or in the Lynch report, they walk in a direction contrary to the 10% sense, considering it unfair, and if they work more on the median income line than 60%. And walking, the European Union has not been able to define the terms to be applied in each of its States, which leaves each of them responsible for taking the necessary steps to work against this evil. And if it is also unanimous the decision that what causes this energy vulnerability? Other spokespersons have already said it here. And with regard to these three parameters that we are running continuously here – because this is not the first time we are debating this issue – it is about what the responsible government is acting on, to also comply with Directive 27 2012, but also a popular government, which is complying with that directive with its governmental action, that is what transposing European Union directives 72 and 73 of 2009, in which energy poverty was already envisaged; 2009, and they won the deadline for transposition, won in March 2011, in March. Who ruled in 2011 when the application of directives that did not pass to the legal order in Spain was now claimed? They ruled others, who didn't like to hear the name, but it was Mr. Zapatero's government, and all their partners, who are coming here today – with a cut-off of verbal violence included by some spokesman – claiming, then, they didn't claim anything. Because it seems that energy poverty is something that has generated the People's Party; and no, because even the acceptance has generated it. But the evil of energy vulnerability is not new. What happened or where were those claims when in 2006 600,000 people were cut off, or in 2010, one million people? Or where were those voices complaining when in 2011 they were cut off at 1,400,000 people? Did no one die then? They die now that Mariano Rajoy and Mr. Feijóo rule. Then there was no way to make any decision. Mrs. Gallego, those who don't want to know anything about the energy vulnerability or energy poverty that you say are exactly you and your partners, who haven't done anything to tackle this social scourge, and come here now. [[Applause]] From the very first moment the Government of the People's Party in Madrid had a concern, which was to attack one of the components of the generation of this terrible social evil, which was the price of light, the price of electricity, fighting against an unsustainable, unsustainable tariff deficit, with an inheritance of 27 billion euros in debt, published in the State Gazette; from the first day fighting against that tariff deficit, which makes the system unsustainable, expensive and unsustainable. And something must be doing well, because I want to read what speakers say in the Congress of Deputies when these things are debated – which is also debated. PNV voice: "I think you've been brave, Mr Soria, with the reform of the electrical system. I believe it has ended with the tariff deficit with the performance of your department. Therefore, in this it is to be said that he has done well." We also believe that if you're doing well, and so if you're working from the Government to compensate for the price of light. Unresponsible. Only three times has the price of light since 2006, three, Mrs. Churches, dropped to that first factor. A 2012 tariff period, the general calculation of 2013 and the 2014 general calculation, although there are inter-annual comparisons between the month and the month here, but in the 2014 overall calculation, Mr. Fajardo, lowered the receipt of light, just as it came down in 2013. And that's something no one can say but the People's Party governments. I insist: measures such as the social bond, a just and supportive social bond, which accounts for 25% of the price of the receipt of light, and an electric and social ticket, which complements that deficit that families can have at the time of paying. And yes, he was born with a spirit of continuity. This year is given a million and a half euros, Mr Fajardo, a million and a half euros. You, in an amendment last year, were asking for a million, now a million and a half alike. The returns have been changed. And that electric and social ticket is going to report to each of the users who deserve it between 15 and 20 euros in the bi-monthly receipt, which may seem little to them, but it's very much appreciated by the families who ask for it. By the way, yes, through the social services of the municipalities, Mrs. Gallego, less in Ourense, who had no readers from the DNI, then they could not request it, but social services do that important work. You don't have to be every person in your home you ask for, you can do it through a public administration. And to complete this reform of the electric system that bravely confronted Minister Soria and Government of Mariano Rajoy, there are four decrees left to develop Law 24/2013, of the electric sector. And among those decrees – which we have already announced in this House – is the decree that will regulate the measures concerning the cut-off of power supply to people who are in energy vulnerability regime. Ladies and gentlemen, it was not important that in 2007, 2008 and 2009 Caritas said that double the number of people paid for the light was not important or action was taken. Not even 5 million people with disproportionate bills were important or measures were taken. And it wasn't important for about 4 million people who couldn't maintain a proper temperature in their homes or taking action. Not the 3.5 million homes they couldn't fight...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u61	It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u62	...–Filled, Madam President – excessive heat, which also affects warm communities. Nor was it important that in 2007, when others were ruling, here in Galicia there were 11 percent of families who couldn't heat up their homes, because then there were no mortality rates, because then nothing happened. It happens now, that the People's Party governs, and now that steps are being taken to tackle this scourge. And a fact, ladies and gentlemen. When they talk about social bonds, they know that 12 million customers paid less than 33 euros a month, 6 million customers paid...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u63	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u64	...between 33 and 46 euros a month, 3.5 million customers between 46 and 58 and 2.8 million customers over 75 euros. Let's not be unfair...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u65	Thank you very much, Mr. Fariñas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u66	...we recognize the work done.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u67	Replica from the proposed parliamentary group. Mrs. Adam, you have the floor. [[Mr. Beiras Torrado pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Mr. Beers, as I know, I didn't give him the floor. You have the floor to Mrs. Adam. Mrs. Adam.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u68	Thank you, President. I wanted to know why the People's Party is not going to vote for this bill, because I've been very careful and I'm not able to guess what the previous blame is for not voting for the future by a law that improves people's living conditions. Look, the problem of energy poverty is not bad, it's the result of certain policies where the biggest players in putting them in B are you. It is you, since the 1997 Act, who liberalizes a market which, as a result, has a rise of 70% of the receipt of light and a impoverishment of people through your labour reform measures. That's the reality. You here have not remembered the levels of unemployment that Galicia suffers and that therefore people cannot pay the bill of light. I'll take a good note. When we get back to the debate about the electricity tariff in Galicia, I understand that you're going to vote in favour, because, of course, here we bring the PNV to an agreement to get a Basque tariff, of course, that's why I understand that you're also in favour of a Greek electricity tariff. And on the electric ticket, look, the electric ticket has a virtuality. Do you know how much Feijó was costing the latest campaigns for the Industry Council? About 2 million euros in the last two years, 2 million euros to convince the beams and the beams that Vigo's private hospital was public. And we're not talking anymore about the birth campaigns, which is also very addicted to the Wellness Advisor to these campaigns, there are already two campaigns and with an expense in addition to EUR 1,400,000. Instead, the electric ticket comes out a lot cheaper. For 600,000 euros and about 1 million and a half in the next year, he had a lot of pages saying he was fighting energy poverty, with a ticket that was already described here as 45 euros every semester, that is, nothing. The question is as follows, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party and the Government away: have they increased or have they not increased the Greek homes with difficulty in paying the bill of light? Specifically, 34% in recent years. What measures did the Government take? Have you taken any measures so that today, if you communicate to a person who has an electric power supply cut, that doesn't happen? Have you taken any measures? No, no, no, no. So this law is absolutely improved in the presentation process, you can incorporate any amendments you want. That is why we are grateful for the positive vote of all, both the Joint and Alternative Left Galician Group and the Socialist Party. Why does the People's Party not vote against energy poverty? Why don't you really want to end energy poverty? Just because they're electrical accomplices, that's all. Look, don't come to me with absolute terminology. You here know perfectly well all the studies that talk about energy poverty and energy vulnerability, these are two very similar concepts. His divergence is not a political divergence, a divergence to really shorten the problems, but the academy, and we're not in the academy. If you like, at another point we are debating why these two concepts are being used. But what the people who are cutting off the light understand is next. The social ticket – which I still maintain was Mr Feijóo's free advertising in front of all a time of questions about what will be done to eradicate energy poverty – has served for anything in Galicia? Answer: no. So are you guys going to take any real steps to end power supply cuts? Are you guys gonna take any real action? For if they take any real action, they begin by voting in favour of this law. In Galicia...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u69	It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u70	...we're rich in electricity production, and in Galicia today there are over 400,000 people – 455,000 people, according to the latest data – who can't handle their bills. You call it energy poverty, vulnerability, indignity, whatever you want. The truth is, what people understand is that people can't afford the receipt of light and instead the big electricians continue to feed themselves. On the other hand, the reform of Minister Soria continues to grow the receipt of light. Meanwhile, the German Government, complicit in the energy policy of Galicia and energy poverty. You're going to vote that no. There's your conscience.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u71	Thank you very much, Mrs. Adam. Voting of legislative texts
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u72	Well, let's move on to the vote on the legislative texts. We started with the first of the projects, the draft law on improvement of Galicia's agricultural territorial structure. We voted on amendments to the whole, starting with the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block of Wales, document No. 31631. Voting the amendment to the whole Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego to the draft legislation on improvement of Galicia's agricultural territorial structure. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. This amendment is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u73	We voted for the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Gaga de Left Alternative, document No. 31594. Voting the amendment to the entire Parliamentary Group of the Glaga Alternative from the Left to the draft law on improvement of Galicia's agricultural territorial structure. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. This amendment is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u74	Finally, we voted on the amendment to the whole Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, document No. 31633. Voting the amendment to the whole Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia to the draft legislation on improvement of Galicia's agricultural territorial structure. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. This amendment is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u75	Rejected by amendments to the whole, the bill continues its parliamentary process. We then vote on the proposed legislation of the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group. Voting of the consideration of the Proposal for a Law, of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, amending Law 2/2012, of 28 March, Welsh general protection of consumers and users, for the introduction of the concept of energy poverty and measures for its eradication. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. Consequently, the consideration of this bill is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u76	We continue with the development of the agenda, with point 2 of appearances. Comparison of the Vice-President and President's Adviser, Public Administrations and Justice, on his own request, to report on the situation of cross-border and inter-regional cooperation
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u77	Mr. Alfonso Rueda Valenzuela has the floor for his speech.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u78	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning to all of you. It is up to me to open the turn of appearances in this new session, and I do so with the intention of transferring to them the situation of cross-border and interregional cooperation lines, which is the turn of ordinary appearances. Galicia and northern Portugal, as you know, have already been nearly a quarter of a century, twenty-five years old, of a relationship – I sincerely believe it to be fruitful – within the working community, a community that has been a pioneer in Europe and that today has clearly been set up, without any doubt, as a reference for transnational cooperation throughout the European Union, thus recognised by the main European authorities. A cooperation that began in the institutional framework, extended to the social sector, followed by economics and education and which now undoubtedly has a new turning point with the effective implementation of the new financial framework for union for the period 14-20 and very especially with the approval of the operational programme of cooperation between Spain and Portugal for that period 14-20. It therefore considered the Government of Greece as the appropriate time to assess the scope of the results achieved and to explain the perspectives that are now being opened as far as Galicia's participation in cohesion policies is concerned, and very particularly in the policies that we are following in this regard with Portugal. Ladies and gentlemen, cohesion policy, I believe that at this point there is no doubt that it has greatly facilitated our development and our progressive convergence with Europe. In the period 1986-2013 Galicia has received aid from the European Union for almost EUR 19 billion. Therefore, I think it is easy to deduce the importance of this contribution in the advancement of our Community, in our infrastructures, in our technological development, in the modernization of our productive fabric and in the strengthening of our GDP. I believe that all of this, together, has allowed us to abandon the group of less developed regions of the European border, where we were until a few years ago. I believe that, in the same way, it is also easy to understand the relevance that it had to maintain an injection of resources of magnitude to capitalize on future decisions, i.e. to continue to perceive European funds in this new period, something that was complicated, it seemed at least complicated at first after we exceeded that 90% of the Community average GDP and therefore had left the target convergence in which we were up to that 90% of GDP. Therefore, this circumstance would in principle translate into a significant loss of funds with respect to what we have been receiving, and that is why we had to put in place an intense and determined strategy in different fields with a clear purpose, which was that the European Union established a safety net, some kind of mechanism that allowed us to continue to perceive in the coming years, until 2020, a significant amount, at least 60% of the structural funds that we have come to perceive in the previous period and that have lost other autonomous communities that before we entered or exceeded that 90% limit. We therefore develop, according to that strategy, a sustained and committed dialogue with the main institutions and leading agents in Europe to prevent Galicia from losing its relative position in the distribution of funds; that is, we act where we believe it was necessary to act, we act according to a strategy, we seek allies and I think we have achieved that objective of this soft landing that is now guaranteed. Galicia now has a mechanism that will allow us to receive at least 60% of the structural funds we received in the period 2007-2013, more than €2.800 million, to which we must add the funding that is planned from sectoral funds and which also add hundreds of millions of euros. Between both shares, EUR 4,144 million, of which, in this new period, are now called Structural and Investment Funds, which means at the end more than 80% of the revenue received in the previous period. I mean, that goal of the security network that – I insist – did not reach other autonomous communities in previous years Galicia achieved it. Therefore, over the next seven years Galicia will continue to receive important approaches to the European Union's structural funds, and that was an objective in which we played very much. And now, once that goal of maintaining this funding has been achieved, the time has come for it to be properly executed. As you know, on his recent trip to Brussels, the President of the Board had the opportunity to meet with the Regional Policy Commissioner and with the R & D+i Commissioner, who moved both of them that in this month of February the European Commission will approve the Feder operational plan which will now make available to Galicia 900 million euros of the more than 4,144 that I have just pointed out. And I think that within this contribution that is going to be 900 million and within the contribution of more than 4,000 is very important, very important, to continue to focus on territorial cooperation. Although the overall budget of the European Union has decreased for the first time over the previous year and although it has also dropped slightly, the total figure of the regional policy, the territorial cooperation agreements to be dedicated to the European Union in this new period increase by 15%, from EUR 8.7 billion to EUR 10 billion. And this opportunity, ladies and gentlemen, certainly, must be taken advantage of. Almost two thirds of these items will be devoted to cooperation in cross-border territories, EUR 6,600 million, which will finance 60 cross-border cooperation programmes over the next six years. Therefore, the European Union is still clearly committed to cross-border cooperation, and so Galicia and northern Portugal, as we have a large baggage and a huge competitive advantage, with strong and fruitful cooperation, we must take advantage of the maintenance of these funds. I believe that the path made so far could be summed up in projects – many of them, but some very prominent ones – carried out up to this time and in the tools and tools we are equipped with, of which we have been to execute the executions, and above all those that we have to put in place the new projects. As far as major projects are concerned, as I said, there are hundreds of shared projects that have been put on, which have already been completed, which are still in progress, which we want to put between Galicia and northern Portugal. Just to mention a few: the works for the approval of the titles of FP, which are already finished, in the metal mechanics sector and which will start this year in the tourism and wood sectors for the joint production of the titles of FP. Cross-border cooperation in health care, nothing simple and subject to many obstacles, but which is already beginning to take shape, is already beginning to be a reality through the protocol we signed this year between the Health Council and the Northern Portugal Regional Health Administration for the joint use of health infrastructures on both sides of the border. Also, the promotion of municipal cross-border cooperation, through the two Eurocities available to us today, Key Verín and Tui-Valence, and the cooperation which, without being through Eurocities, performs many beautiful border councils between themselves and which share projects and infrastructure. Salvaterra and Monção, Tomino and Vilanova de Cerveira, Arbo and Melgaço are good examples of what I'm saying. Also, the launch of the Euroregion Information Office, an online platform to share and make it useful – and that you can take advantage of all those interested in doing so – all the information, many and organized, which is available and on which the Greek universities and northern Portugal will also collaborate in the development of this platform. Also, the bet on developing joint plans to enhance common heritage, such as the Gerês-Xurés Park or the Portuguese Way to Santiago, which does not stop growing in pilgrims. Also, support for actions to promote the integration of companies, with visits from Portuguese companies to Portugal and from Portuguese companies to Galicia, with all this that involves establishing relationships, first of all personal relationships and through these commercial-type relationships, which are those that are interested and are those that are sought, for example, as was the case with the visits already launched by business missions of the Textile Cluster to companies on both sides of the border. Also, Galicia and northern Portugal have launched the Ariem 112 project, together with Castela and León, in this case with the aim of creating a common space for emergency management, where all help everyone and when there is an emergency all the means of emergency serve everyone who needs it in the different territories that are in this project. This is a service of 112 operationally coordinated and willing to offer the best service, the fastest service, regardless of the border side where the citizens who request it live. He is also collaborating with the Camões Institute to promote the study and dissemination of Portuguese and Portuguese culture in Galicia, and also, of course, of Greek and Greek culture in Portugal, and also collaborating with civil society in support of the candidacy of the Portuguese-Palestinian culture as an immaterial heritage of UNESCO's humanity. New initiatives are also being launched, such as the James programme of interuniversity cooperation. It's about studying together, researching together and creating synergies that enable our companies and our universities to become wealth and jobs and developing the results that are being achieved at R & D+i. At the first two calls from this program James, we already have almost 250 beneficiaries, among teachers, researchers and administrative staff, who have held stays at some of the eleven universities on both sides of the border that are welcomed to this program. We also promote employment with the so-called Euroregion Job Days, which is serving as a cross-border contact point between entrepreneurs and professionals. The first edition, which has already been held, focused on the metal sector and took place in June 2014, in Valença, and the next edition of this Job Days day will be dedicated to the hospitality sector and will take place on March 16 – within just a month and a half – also in Valencia. And also in the workplace, one of our priorities. Next week we will sign an agreement between the Greek authorities, the Portuguese authorities and the Euro-region trade unions for employment and the promotion of it on both sides of the border. These are some of the projects that have been or are under way, that are going to be done in the near future, and this must be done – as I said – through tools, through suitable tools to achieve this necessary execution, this complete execution, which Europe also demands to continue to perceive funds. This year, five years from the launch of the European Group of Territorial Cooperation Galicia-North of Portugal, the so-called AECT, which is based in Vigo and which has Portuguese and Italian staff, working in the elbow, working together. The EGTC has been configured for this time as the real execution arm of the policies of the Eurroregion, focused on the most interesting aspects, in promoting cross-border relationships in general, but above all by promoting the promotion of the competition of Galician and northern Portugal's business fabric, which is a meeting point between the entrepreneurs on both sides of the border and also between the administrations – which sometimes we live too much behind – and with this increasing social cohesion on both sides of the border. In short, it is about day-to-day work, making the euro region a more attractive territory for its neighbours and neighbours, for its visitors on both sides and also for the companies on both sides. In addition, we have two Eurocities – as I said – that of Keys-Verín and that of Tui-Valence, which have joint projects and also those municipalities which, without being in Eurocities, work together on projects sometimes of two municipalities, sometimes of three and even of four. And also, in addition to these infrastructures, we have bigger and more innovative infrastructure in the European era, but we are sure that during these years it will acquire year by year more and will be able to take advantage of opportunities offered from Europe for this type of new structures. I'm talking about the macro-region of regions of south-western Europe. It was originally formed between northern Portugal, Galicia and Castile and León, which has been added in the last year to the centre of Portugal and the Autonomous Community of Asturias, giving it more critical mass and more possibilities so that it can access projects financed by the European Union. But what is more, I think we have gone forward in the implementation of instruments that have even advanced to this new scenario in which we are now, the 14-20, as it was – and we will see from now on its usefulness – the first development, hand in hand with our Portuguese neighbours, and the adoption later in January last year in Baiona, of the joint investment plan for the euro region; a document that identifies 8 strategic priorities, which is developed in 39 major projects and has 4 axes of action: research and transfer of technology, employment, environmental quality and heritage and institutional training. In addition, we are finalizing – and it will be finished before June of this year – the euro region's smart specialisation strategy, which will become – at this point it is foreseeable that it will be so – at the first cross-border RIS3 in Europe, with all that this means to take advantage of the opportunities that will be opened up for this type of strategy in this new economic period. We focus on this cross-border RIS3 for different strategic purposes: support for pemes – we consider it to be fundamental –; the promotion of private capital participation together with the public, in order to access projects of greater scope; the transfer of public and private sector results, so that they can be developed; and the commitment decided by entrepreneurship. It's a real roadmap that they're going to talk about – as I say, it's going to go slowly as economic period 14-20 advances – the investments we want for our euro area until the end of this economic period. With this, we want to achieve Galicia in the future, we want to innovatively manage the natural and cultural resources, from agriculture and the sea to tourism, both on both sides of the border; we want an industrial model through this RIS3 that improves the competitiveness of our companies – there is a lot to be done there, there are very competitive companies on both sides, but we want them to be more –; we want to diversify our industrial production; and we want special attention to active aging, which is a problem, of course, in Galicia, also in Castela and León, talking about the macroregion, and of course also a problem that suffers – and many – our Portuguese neighbors. This has been transferred to Brussels by the President of the Union to the Regional and R & D Policy Commissioners, who welcomed this initiative and who will allow us to choose both the funds devoted to transregional cooperation and to those for the Horizon 2020 Research and Innovation Programme, thus opening a double channel of funding possibilities, in addition to the conviction that those who move earlier in the European field of these initiatives have more opportunities to achieve funding, and I believe that we are all interested in achieving the greatest possible amount of funding. We are therefore committed to cross-border cooperation, and we are always looking for this funding that supports this clear political will, this conviction of doing things well and of doing them over time, with the timetables that mark Europe. It's no good to start doing something now, because many others have started long before, and therefore this work comes from far behind and now it's time to start picking up the fruits. Galicia and northern Portugal are undoubtedly better located to secure access to this funding and to obtain European funds that allow us to face key investments and that without this funding they would be quite difficult to implement. As I said at the beginning, we are at a crucial moment because the new POCTEP is about to be approved for the next 2014-2020 period, and it also involves an injection of important funds. There is no doubt that POCEP is a programme of enormous importance to these cooperation projects involving all kinds of institutions and administrations, and therefore there is enormous competitiveness in trying to achieve funds, and which are directly, even more directly than other European aid lines, for the benefit of citizens on one side and on the other side of the border. Thus, universities, technological centres, public administrations, chambers of commerce, development agencies, hydrographic confederations, associations of all kinds will be able to participate in this program, in their previous calls, in the period 2007-2013, if they have made truly beneficial projects for the euro region. In the last six years, 76 projects have been approved, which are added in addition to the participation of Galicia in six other multi-regional projects, i.e., not specifically between entities in Galicia and northern Portugal, but with other regions in the European field. In this period 2007-2013 the total amount of POCEP in the euro region has reached EUR 147.7 million, i.e. nearly EUR 150 million, distributed in small projects, in numerous initiatives, up to 73, plus those six multi-regional ones, which have allowed many institutions to access these funds. Important projects have been promoted in new technologies, in nanotechnology – especially with the centre of Braga – support for euro area clusters – textiles and automotive mainly –, sustainable tourism, ecosystem protection, proximity cooperation. In short, anything that covers intelligent cooperation on both sides of the border. We also count on a positive balance – I think – on the degree of online execution of the importance of the commitments we have made. Who doesn't run properly and who doesn't run in an important percentage then has a lot of trouble getting new funds, and we don't want much less that this is the problem in our euro area. The participation of the Galician Group in the different projects is supported in this period that has ended, which is now ending, with the N+2 rule, at 83% of the projects, with a frankly high percentage, given that there are many agents who have participated and therefore many times the difficulties in coordinating the situations of all to achieve this high degree of execution. And, therefore, in the new POCEP 2014-2020, which we are now facing, which is at the beginning of this year 2015, given the European times, we are prepared to achieve even more funding. In the near future, the European Commission will approve the new cross-border cooperation programme Spain-Portugal 2014-2020, the new operational programme that will guide the application of the Feder during this period in the Spanish-Portugal border area, i.e. the POCEP 2014-2020. The final document that was drawn up during the year 2014 has already been sent to the European Commission last January, and the forecasts we are handling are that it will be approved in the first quarter. In addition, we hope that as a whole this aid to POCEP for the period 2014-2020 will reach almost 300 million euros, which means 8% more aid increase than in the previous period, which is especially worthy if we bear in mind that the global aid allocated to it as a whole for the whole of European space and for the European Union for this new period will decrease. On the other hand, cross-border cooperation will increase to almost EUR 400 million, taking into account the contribution we have to make from different administrations. And, of course, this money and these opportunities must be taken advantage of. We aspired from Galicia to make 40% of that total amount of EUR 400 million for projects that are being undertaken, proposed and implemented from the northern Galicia region of Portugal. Objectives we pursue with this new POCTEP. What projects are we going to introduce? For of course those who seek to enhance R & D+i, without any doubt – European aid goes around much; therefore, we must know how to read these lines, we must be able to take advantage of them –, improve the competitiveness of pemes – which is very necessary, especially after this crisis period –, encourage sustainable growth – that is always –, the improvement of the management of natural resources, improve the institutional capacity – which I had previously referred to – by improving the efficiency of public administrations and, above all, to achieve with all these lines promoting, increasing and maintaining an acceptable level of employment. I can point out to them that the Union, within this new framework, will prioritize innovation, bet on pemes and job creation – as I told them – as a summary of these six lines I have just exposed. Finally – I say – we are about to begin the execution of these nearly 400 million. There's a previous job before we have to do it, it's done, and now we're at the moment we can take advantage of it. Because, ladies and gentlemen, in the last two decades Galicia has been set up as a good example of a proper execution, of a proper employment of the Union's funds, and of a reference to cross-border cooperation, and we cannot lose this reference position, because there are many countries, institutions and administrations throughout Europe who want to occupy this place. The new budget period of the European Union 2014-2020 represents, therefore, an opportunity for us to take advantage of this added value that Galicia and northern Portugal have in order to cooperate and cooperate fruitfully. We have led a long way – as I told you – that our model of cooperation has transcended the institutional framework and certainly advances in a determined way to a second-level cooperation, with the direct involvement of citizens, which is also what Europe is now demanding. We've had cross-border cooperation to go a long way. Initially, the whole legal framework – which did not exist – had to be designed, the institutional framework. It was then necessary to consolidate these institutions, those cooperation bodies, the government of the euro region. It was then necessary to defend the development of very necessary infrastructures, channels of communication, try to harmonise social services and try to harmonise labour frameworks. This work was done until 2014. Now this new framework, this new period that opens Europe before us – and we have to take advantage of it, I insist – is an opportunity to go further on the basis of the work that is being done so far. We need to take advantage of the potential and synergies of a line of cooperation between Galicia and Portugal, which is becoming more and more united, which needs to separate us less and less. We must overcome – I think we have already surpassed – the institutional framework for cooperation, involve all citizenship, do – because they will demand – more concrete actions every day and also achieve concrete results. At the end of this stability framework that we have after these many years of joint work, this work referendum has to assume a new thrust and a new desire to consolidate a euro region of people that for now and there goes the new funding framework up to 2020. We've always had a project axis: to put people at the center of the action of public authorities, to give them a renewed, up-to-date sense, to that historic neighborhood that we've always had, the people of northern Portugal and the Greeks. So now the new moment has come, the time to put emphasis on intangible investment – which is what Europe calls for – in employment, innovation and, ultimately, in human capital to make it possible. We have a lot of road ahead, we have a lot of competitors ahead, funds are what they are, they have increased; now it is the responsibility of everyone to know how to take advantage of them, and again that advantage which, without any doubt, is supposed to be a cross-border territory, takes advantage of it once Europe continues to consider that this is a viable framework, a potential, a niche that must continue to support and enhance. And we, of course, will do our best not to miss this new opportunity that Europe gives us. We haven't done it in the period that ends and we're not going to do it in the period that now begins. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u79	Thank you very much. Round of parliamentary groups. The Joint Group has the floor to Mrs. Martínez García.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u80	Thank you, President. Well, first of all, I think I just heard a story of a happy world and the good that we did and the good that we're going to do. And the worst of all, above all, is not making criticism for making criticism. When a part of a lack of criticism about the things that have failed in the past, it's very likely to make the same mistakes again in the new stage that begins. So we think that all the speech we just heard lacks a solid basis and a rigorous analysis. So about the work that has been done in Galicia and northern Portugal, the cross-border area, about the work of the university cooperation programme, we understand that you have failed in your task of promoting the exchanges of research teachers between the university community and the euro region. The Centre for Euro-Rexional Studies, Galicia-North of Portugal, the EER, has succeeded in agreeing at the time six public universities in both countries, a regional government, a regional administration and a cross-border association of municipalities. The CERCE has become a private law foundation, so it could give and participate in public calls in Galicia but not Portugal, which has created a serious problem of cross-border cooperation. The lack, on the other hand, of leadership, mistrust between the six universities and the gradual abandonment of both the public authorities and the Atlantic Axis in their participation in the CERCE endangers their continuity. So we should, before we're triumphalists, put a remedy to what's going on. As for the celebration of the first Job Day, I love it, because Galicia and Portugal talk about Job Day, we don't have a proper language to use. Sad, but, well, how sad – and then I'll talk about it – the treatment given to the language in all this. The objectives were to promote job creation, cross-border cooperation and cooperation between companies. He counted 16 companies and 48 jobs were offered. It does not seem to be to throw the bells into the sky, as is the situation of unemployment and job destruction in both countries. But already speaking in particular of our own, how many contracts were signed? What kind of contracts were they? Were they indefinite or were they contracts in training, possible contracts, part-time? What did you get? Because really 48 jobs don't look like many. As for POCTEP 2014-2020, it rotates into five major areas of programmatic objectives, which is to boost research, technological development and innovation. I'd like to know how, on the basis of lack of innovation and commitment to innovation and the research of the Galician Union in our country, it's going to lead this research empowerment forward when it allows and supports and supports the immigration of our university students. To improve the competitiveness of small and medium-sized enterprises by improving the conditions necessary and conducive to the emergence of new business initiatives. Explain to me how, in a country that doesn't give any real support to cooperation between pemmes and pemmes so they can actually get out of the way. Promoting adaptation to climate change in all sectors. That seems to me, said by the board of Galicia, to collect it. The other day in the 2nd Commission, the People's Party voted against an AGE initiative to improve and work against air pollution. And the People's Party votes against, just as it votes against many initiatives that have been taken in this Parliament to improve the quality of our waters, both of the fresh waters and of the waters of our rivers. Protecting the environment and promoting resource efficiency. Protect and value the cultural and natural heritage. I am here that I have lost myself to the policies of the Union, when they have also just voted against that the Union is involved in maintaining the wealth that makes up the clowns, for example – and this was last week. Or improve the protection and sustainable management of natural spaces, when their policy of betting for the megamining and the destruction of our floors depending on whether we don't know what mining benefits pose a serious risk to our very natural space and our cultural heritage. Even so, actions related to business development and quality employment promotion are also included. But you didn't say anything about it. What actions, what initiatives do you intend to propose to the Galician Council precisely for this business development and the promotion of quality employment? Because, of course, what we create in our country – if we create something, because if we add and stay, it destroys – is that quality jobs are destroyed to create very precarious jobs. The same applies to the environment and energy and ecological infrastructures. POCTEP provides for adaptation to climate change, risk prevention and management. He hasn't talked about anything as serious and as serious as adapting to the consequences of climate change in our country. And we have several examples in these last two years of river growth and of consequences on the coast about changes or atmospheric phenomena, which, according to most scientists, are due to climate change. The protection and promotion of the assets of culture and natural heritage. The treatment of household waste. I don't know if the Galician Union here, at this point, is going to talk about Sogama and propose to Portugal that Sogama is the solution for the treatment of waste. Let's not talk about the management and conservation of drinking water; I suppose that the Board will lead to cross-border zone meetings will be the privatization of water, as it is doing in Galicia. And if we're talking about integrated pollution prevention and control, we're also going to have to talk a lot about the little interest that Galician Union has in starting to take measures to be able to change energy model and bet on a renewable and non-contaminated energy model to replace the most polluting energies. With regard to the strategic priorities Galicia-North of Portugal, there is cooperation in the area of the sea, the internationalisation of pemes, environmental protection and urban development, the promotion of cooperation and social integration. But within these areas of cooperation, no other very important matters are taken into account. They speak, yes, of ship yards and nautical shipyards of recreation, of culture and of tourism. I'd like to know what the Union's bet is about the naval sector and the nautical sector. And if tourism is going to talk more than the Portuguese Way in these years until 2020. Then there's a theme – and it's over, I'm running out of time, but it's important – which is cross-border workers in the Northern Galicia region of Portugal, who are people working on one side of the border and moving every day or one day a week, because they live on the other side of the border, at their home. In 2010 the GDP per capita of Galicia was 21,000 euros and that of northern Portugal was 13,000. The Portuguese workers accept jobs in Galicia that are poorly qualified and unstable, they suffer from work and wage discrimination against the Greek workers. What happens is that in your country, wages are so low that they don't pay to work. And that's the cooperation that the Galician Union is cooperating with Portugal, when it recommends, together with Citroën, to the Greek companies that hire in Portugal, that bring their companies to Portugal, because it goes cheaper, generating unemployment and poverty in our country. It is therefore incredible that there are no measures for quality employment and wage convergence and working conditions between the two countries. It is also incredible that we do not speak, or that we have not talked at all this time at the exhibition of the Counsellor, of improvements in people's quality of life, the achievement of the level of wages that enter the European Union's average, equal opportunities, the fight against gender violence, the valuable position of the Lusophony or the fight against energy poverty.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u81	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u82	There's a lot of road ahead and everything remains on the popular party's propaganda, and we never look at results that can appreciate citizenship. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u83	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. Mrs. Peace.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u84	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Vice-President, I was surprised when I saw the agenda of this meeting that you were asking to include in the plenary today, because it literally corresponded to the statement of an appearance that took place on 29 April in the European Committee on European Affairs by Mr Gamallo. Well, I thought, however, like you this year, ten months passed from April to today, that there was some progress on the part of the Galician Union in relation to the things you came to tell us. I don't have time, you have limited time, but I assure you, if I read the European Affairs Committee's report of 29 April 2014, not only did you not bring any news, but did you repeat whole paragraphs of what Mr. Gamallo said at that meeting, and it is even more: I would say you omitted information that Mr. Gamallo gave at that time. So, it seems that we had more advanced, in relation to the 2014-2020 frame, a year ago than we have now. And so, Mr. Rueda, we must conclude that the People's Party and you, as Vice-President of the People's Party and Secretary-General, take this Parliament for a genuine coward. They come here simply for later at the end of the session period can fill statistics to say that I don't know how many times they have appeared in Parliament, but with an appearance that isn't that it addresses a topic that is not important – that the subject is very important – but you haven't given us a single data, or a single relevant information on this matter. And look, at the whole of the Government, I'd have ten issues that would probably be of much greater relevance to a meeting in this plenary session, especially from the citizens' point of view, but in your advice, Mr. Rueda, I assure you that there are, too, because I could do something more about the administration of justice than complain about the lack of officials to deal with the collapse and to blame the Government of Madrid, who has it, but you too, Mr. Rueda. Because the summons of civil servants are the responsibility of Madrid, but the recruitment of reinforcement personnel is yours, Mr. Rueda, and therefore if there is a collapse it is for your responsibility. And look, I, with regard to specific issues that you said, of course, is that you started talking to us here virtually from the year 86 until now, and of course, that someone comes here saying that thanks to cohesion policies and to the 19 billion euros that because of those cohesion policies that were invested in Galicia we managed to convert into employment and income with the European Union, it's a trick! Because, Mr. Rueda, I would like to, if you have any way of dismantling the statement that I am going to say here: let's converge by a statistical effect of the entry into the European Union of the Eastern countries, because if you don't have to see it. And if you have data that contradicts what I'm saying, put them here in your second intervention. Would we have the same understanding if it hadn't extended to the countries of the East? Well, it must be a little more rigorous, it must be a little more rigorous, Mr. Rueda. Then, let's say here that thanks to Galicia's start to work from the beginning to have a safety net, the so-called phasing-out funds, look, apart from the fact that this is a debate, of course, that it's already very clumsy – because that's what we had to discuss four years ago – I have to tell you that the first time Mr. Núñez Feijóo or no member of the German Government has ever spoken of that already the chairman of the committee had stated that there would be them. And, by the way, Mr Rueda, you are so good negotiators, so good, so good, so good, so good that, for example, from EAFRD funds we will have, in total for the German RDP, EUR 308 million less than in the previous period – Mr Rueda, listen – despite the fact that the European Union reserves more EAFRD funds than in the previous period. But of course, with whom you haven't been able to negotiate, you're with the Government of Spain, who's going to be involved in such funding, so miserable that the final result is that we have 308 million less. By the way, in previous periods, you said that thanks to these magnificent negotiations we kept around 60% of funds in relation to the previous period and I have to remind you that, by doing so a little bit of memory – because we didn't know what I was going to talk about either we couldn't bring everything we had in the office, but by remembering – I remember that in the previous period, for example, Asturias managed to keep 75% of what he had before. So it won't be so extraordinary that the Union has achieved 60%. Look, I would like to know, Mr Rueda, and to the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, that you have come to tell us exactly here about concrete objectives for the future of these cross-border programmes and projects that say they will have priority funding from the European Union, but tell us that there are no great statements, as you said here, of R & D+i, competitiveness of pemes, sustainable growth. In what, meat and bone? What's going to materialize that support for pemes? What kind of pemes? What productive orientation? What location? How many jobs do you want to set, consolidate or create through this support? I+D+i, where: in universities, in clusters, in technology centers that you're dismantling? Tell us more than you intend to do with those funds. Because I've already told you that it was almost, almost a more concrete film a year ago, your general director, Mr. Gamallo, than you were today. But look, we're going to talk about more concrete things about the euro area. In this Parliament, ten months ago, the law known as the Valentine's Law andrade, which as fundamental ones had three. One, the knowledge of Portuguese language and culture by all the Greeks, based on the consideration that Galician membership in the area of Lusophony is a value that we must put in the first term also for our economic development; hence, measures in the field of education, in the field of culture and also in the field of the Spanish Radiotelevision Company. Look, you come here later and the only concrete, both you and Mr. Gamallo, of balanced data and figures that were able to put on the table was that of the James bags. And you tell me how congruence you have to keep James bags if later, since this law came into force, only eight educational centers have been incorporated into Portuguese within your educational offer. Or you tell me how compatible this is with, for example, that on September 14, 2014, in the Eurocity Keys-Verín if you publish a summons for the citizens of that eurozone – that some are also Portuguese – and that you can only access that call in Spanish, English or German. And that's the orientation of Valentine's Peace Andrade, Counselor? Or how do you think you're using this as a dynamisation element? And of course, you also talked a lot about tourism, both in the past and in the future. Another topic you could come up with here – and that's an element in which, in fact, you always put a lot of emphasis when you talk about the Eurocity of Verín-chaves – is the thermal dynamization and tourism. But look, so far, Mr. Vice-President, and, of course, after knowing the Plan of the Thermal Board of Galicia, I am very afraid that from now on, too, those who eat the flesh of the thermalism are Keys and those who chew the bone is Verín. Because I don't know if you know that, even though the president of the board made an announcement to bomb and plate a thermal plan with 166 million euros of investment, Mrs Nava Castro confirmed that this investment would have to be private, because of course there would be no public investment. And I don't know, Mr Vice-President, if you heard yesterday the President of the Confederation of Ourense Entrepreneurs, Mr Canal, saying that if you really believe in thermalism and believe in thermalism as a dynamizing element of the economy of many districts of Galicia, and in particular of Ourense, you should rethink that thermal plan and, above all, you should put euros on the table. You tell us, Mr Vice-President, if, through these cross-border cooperation funds, you have to make some sort of proposal to raise European funds from the administrations in order to develop thermalism. Because those would be relevant things that we would like to know, to see if really that joint investment plan – which, by the way, exactly in the same terms that you did today already told us by Mr. Gamallo a year ago – will have some practical virtuality and will serve for a certain economic dynamisation.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u85	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u86	And, of course – and finally, Mr. President – you started by saying that I was going to take stock of the results and a projection for the future. Look, Mr Vice-President, I'm telling you with total sincerity and seriousness. For the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, a balance of results is something more than to come here to say four or five obvious facts about the axes on which transborder policy has so far turned, but you should have brought us here as they really focused on Galicia's economic and social development those measures that have spurred on that cooperation and set targets for the future. Because if you don't, Mr. Vice-President, if you never set goals, you can always sell a success, even if no progress has actually been made. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u87	Thank you, Mrs. Paz. Parliamentary Group of the Left Galician Alternative. Mrs. Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u88	Well, good afternoon to all of us. The truth is, Mr. Vice-President of the Board, I was quite perplexed when I saw the audience that you yourself were asking to explain to the citizenship of our country – we thought – which are your priorities. It perplexes, because it looks as if you're an orchestra man, who has under his hand relevant functions and relevant competences, and even looks behind you relevant public functions to address that they would look like at all the lights that at least that would be the priority goal to have appeared at the first full session. But that's not the case, and not only is it not the case, but you surprisingly choose this theme, and, in addition, choose it with some shame. Because, if I may, Mr. Rueda, when you come here, I suppose it is to pass on to the Greeks and to the Greeks which will be the priorities from our country in that plan of cooperation with Portugal substantially, or even in that cooperation in the whole of Europe, but of course, I say with disgust because anyone who has read the plan of action, man! at least – I say – you strive, because – I insist – not even to what is the very enunciations of the political proposal that has been made nor even put you – let us say – the passion needed to enjoy certain credibility. And, first of all, yes, by amending the biggest, and the discomfort you've conveyed, man!, the truth is, we're not going to share that kind reading that you make, first, for ideological reasons. We do not share the kind reading, with which you are falling, of the European Union, especially because it is not true and especially because what you are defending in that European Union that you have earned here is just a Europe in favour of the powerful, a "German" Europe in which we are a genuine protectorate – or worse – to the detriment of the working classes that are violently oppressed. I therefore say this, because it will certainly not share with us that, indeed, if for anything, what is happening in Greece and through its finance minister, Varufakis, it is just to combat the policies of barbarism that the European Union has built up. That's why we don't share that first vision that you've made, nor do we share – even though we're bragging – because we're converging with Europe, because it's not the object of this appearance, but we would deny it because what you say is not true. What is more, the first responsible question that should be asked is that of a Greek and a Greek is where these 19 billion euros are invested in these years, generators, who had to be generators of social cohesion or economic cohesion, or territorial cohesion, or cohesion, for example, in substantial matters, such as public transport. They don't exist, Mr. Rueda. And surely, if we did an assessment of what happened to these 19 billion euros, because they would be more than questionable by citizenship, because some are directly a real scam. And, of course, sharing with the fellow of the Block, Mrs. Peace, man!, tell us that we leave target 1 because we improve and converge and because we reach 90% of GDP, it's that you know it's a lie; it's so much so that it's just because some countries get much poorer than it is, on this occasion, Galicia itself. So this is the only reality we have, and not the vision you showed here. But yet, and with that, in fact, you come here and what you should do is a balance or realising what you've planned to do. I'm saying what you've planned to do, because the balance is really negative for the management of our country. Very negative, for example, given that you yourself for last year have already set an agenda and a series of objectives that have not been met, for example, railway and road infrastructures, an Iberian energy market, business cooperation or even the collection of European funds, which, as you know, none of this exists. But we should also evaluate what has happened. You're talking about R & D+i, well, because it would be convenient for us to balance what's happened even in comparison with northern Portugal and Portugal, because the figures you've been running are very negative for our country. And I speak of it clearly and particularly of the R & D+i, as reflected in your own report today – let's say – they raise awareness of the citizenship of Galicia, which is based on the 12 autonomous community of the 17 worst in the situation of R & D+i, in a historical retreat since you govern, going from investment in 2009 in GDP of 1.01 % to – official data, you have them there – at present, less than 0.87%, on a Spanish average that is at 1.3% and on a European average, Mr Rueda, which is at 2.2%. And these figures are all positive for Portugal and very negative for Galicia. I'm saying that because he's talking about R+D+i, because it would be convenient for us to know what we're talking about. In a model, besides, where you fired about 1,000 researchers from our country, in a model where research has no future, we have the talents outside of Galicia. Despite that, you talk about these unrealities or even desires that have nothing to do with reality. We could also talk about the technology companies that we've lost since you govern; 5,821 high-tech, high- or medium-high-tech. Or, for example, others linked to technological innovation activities, such as around 832. But that's not all. It is that in the unemployment data, Mr. Rueda, the data are catastrophic for Galicia in relation to Portugal. You don't have to tell him, it's also in his own report. Whereas our average is 20.7%, the Portuguese average is 15.7%. Something's doing awfully wrong. But even, and following this R+D+i, the wide band in the middle Portuguese location is 58% and ours is also worse in relation to Portugal. And some specific questions, Mr. Rueda, which we would like to know. For example, you're talking about emergencies, project Ariem 112 – which doesn't matter, because it compares to what it looks like, always talks about it – and we're going to ask specific questions. First of all, what would be the command organ chart in case something happened in that Ariem program 112? I mean, specifically, what if there's an emergency? What would be the body of command of these three peoples and countries that are combined: Galicia, Castile and Portugal? What would it be like, what would be the endowment that would look after that record? What happens to this reality, especially that they call themselves firefighters that spectacle? Because if the post of command of Axega has delayed, as you know, in a terrible sinister on July 24, two hours to get to Angrois, they ask us their own firefighters – and they ask me to ask him directly – because for example that reality has a simulation in Laza where you are already leaving the post of command advanced at the point. And they tell us directly that what you're doing is a real show, there's nothing real. But also that you explain to us here, because it appears, what would be the time of reaction, of mobilization, of each of the means used between Castile, Portugal or even Galicia, that tell us what the reality is. You, who always talks about isochrons, please realize what this reality would be like. Because – I insist – the only thing we've ever lived was the love of England and reality has shown another question that has nothing to do with this reading. And, on the other hand, indeed, with regard to those claims of cooperation in cultural matters, simply the evaluation of Valentine's ILP Paz Andrade has already made us say that you will do absolutely nothing of what you are pointing out in this project itself. On the other hand – and to finish – Mr Rueda, with regard to labour and business cooperation, all you do is relocate companies, companies in the south of our country. They're locating whole production lines, as you know, with the convolence and active cooperation of the Galician Union and with the Greek employers. They take these companies to the north of Portugal, because they have much lower wages – I insist – with the convolence of the Galician Union, or even relevant companies that are going through it terribly badly, which are currently, like Alcoa, some of them also linked to the themes of Portugal, or even as companies that have to do with Poligal, for example, which have – you know – directly lines of action derived because in that country of Portugal, which the only – I insist – is to do social dumping. And, for example, Mr Rueda, if you are so concerned about cooperating, it would be appropriate, since the discussion on Greece and the Greek social model and the measures it is implementing, for example, to have a given - and that data is relevant in terms of the economic exile of Galicia to Portugal - is also at present taking into account that we have raised the minimum interprofessional salary of EUR 3, i.e., that we currently have a salary...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u89	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u90	...–end– of EUR 648, Portugal has a minimum wage of EUR 589, Mr Rueda, it would be useful for us, for example, to work for that which you say on paper, because in achieving harmonised frameworks for the minimum interprofessional wage. And, on the other hand, what we're living in in social terms doesn't have to tell him. For example, in health matters. It's the escape, the economic exile of health professionals who have no future in our country and who are actually going to work in Portugal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u91	Thank you, Mrs. Díaz. Socialist Parliamentary Group. Mrs. Soneira.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u92	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Rueda, I don't know if you reconcile. This is almost always a function of women. I had to get up at 6:00 this morning and before I came, of course, I went into my parents' room, older, and one of them told me not to sleep at all and asked him if he was evil and so on. And he said, "No, it's just that I haven't caught my eye thinking about our cross-border relationships, that they don't let me take my eye." I'm telling you this, Mr. Rueda, because you could choose a wide range of appearances, accept appearances requested by our group, which I'm going to tell you exactly what it is, to you, to the President of the Government, to the rest of the members of the Government and others who are not even 60 in the front seats; and yet, all of them, in total 286, are pending that you are worthy of accepting them. And of course, in a hurry and with urgency, to surely comply with this anxiety that my father has and this concern about our cross-border relationships, you on day 2 ask to appear, the 3 is registered in the House and day 4 the majority group – of course, that for this it is essential – decides to incorporate it into this plenary. I remind you, moreover, Mr. Rueda, that you have pending 19 requests for attendance in this plenary of our group, which is not worthy of accepting any; and Mr. President of the Board, 36. By the way, he just came on a trip. Here was a custom, until you arrived, that the president of the board on all the trips, and especially where we played European resources, came in. Mrs. Peace said: what you're going to tell us has already said to you, Mr. Gamallo, and if you want me to tell you the truth – it was also in commission, and there is – let's say – another environment – because almost with more conviction and almost believing more what he said to you here. Our requests for appearances may not be up to date. Let's see some. A few days ago a court formally certified that the president of the board was sailing with a gentleman who had criminal business; he is certified by the courts. We're looking forward to Mr. President of the Board coming here and explaining it, telling us where he went, how many times he paid and where he was from the snow. You are looking forward to coming here, Mr. Counsellor of the Public Administration, to tell us why it is transmuted into a modern Moses and, suddenly, the waters – not the Red Sea, but a timely flood – end with the records of Sergas contracts of the Feijóo era, of his relationship with a criminal certified by the courts. And you don't know about it, you don't want to show up. Perhaps there are other issues that are less topical: financing of the Welsh PP, its relations with the financing of the national PP, the funding problems of the PP in Ourense. The Secretary-General of the PPdeG, Vice-President of the Chair and Vice-President, has requests for both full and commission appearances which you find inappropriate to attend. Operation Zeta. A militant from the People's Party, said in a newspaper: "The PP is chronic corruption and widespread disloyalty." And the Secretary General of the PPdeG, who is asked to attend, neither. Perhaps, too, Mr. Rueda, it is appropriate that you – you should ask for it, we have already asked you, we have made it easier for you to come to explain what you called "agrarian plot", and that the courts have also ascertained that the only plot you had is that you were one day as a member of the Government and the next day as Secretary General of the PPdeG. And for now, you haven't given any explanation yet. Mr. Méndez Romeu asked at all meetings of the Speaker's Board to attend the presence of Mr. President of the Board to come to account for the data of our labour market. You want rice, Catalina. To see you come, Mr. Méndez, lose all hope. As Dante, you know, gives up all hope. I know! We could talk absolutely... even you could come and ask for your presence to explain to us how a community like this has abandoned immigration policies and 20% of our population, as if we had no historical and current relation to that phenomenon. No, Mr. Vice-President of the Board came to tell us – and I would say even to your detriment – what Mr. Gamallo has already told us. Because here it does fit again – which I have already used on one occasion – that expression of Mr. Fraga: order rain in Havana! Because look, who has always believed in North Galicia cooperation in Portugal? My colleague Abel Losada reminded him that there was not much: the left-wing councils, when he ruled left in Vigo and in Porto, who were pulling out that car and who was assumed by another Government and another president – I hope that this data will also be given to Mr. Puy, because he probably has it – and that you're the only one who did it was slowing down that engine that had started at his own time. Do you understand? Because even in all these cross-border fellowship programmes, cooperation between universities, all you use is European resources to fund the back door and otherwise what you have withdrawn from the regular funding of universities. You come here to talk about convergence, and you've been told before. Well, I don't want to go in, because, besides, I, unlike you, have little time. But have you seen the execution numbers of the Feder, which decays into Galicia, official data from his advisor's office? Unless you get them back to the new councillor at Fairy, you've got 35% without spending. What do you come to tell us? Not even a specific programming, you just read us a picture of what are the basic lines and objectives of the Feder programming itself, of the European Union. Any of us can go in there and check it out directly. Well, something that has to do with it, I'd almost say directly. Are you aware that our PDR received more than 400 allegations from the European Union and that it actually has a motion of censure and that we will see how we put it to work? And that's the programming for the next period? You are aware that again – and I quote my colleague Abel Losada – here brought the Juncker plan and his spokesman almost, almost told him – man!, I will not use this sentence from the Comedy Club – but, little less than forgiving him his life, saying: but what are you talking about? please!Is that what you're talking about? Of course, you were talking about the government friend of Madrid not even calling them to ask them what they want to include in what programming, and you're coming here to tell us I don't know what. You talk to me about key poison cooperation on health issues. My companion Carmen Acuña has introduced initiatives that have been voted against by her group precisely to coordinate all this. Do you want to tell me – and this has already been discussed with Mr. Gamallo – absolutely concrete questions, if you are unable to coordinate with Portugal the weekly fishing rest, which makes our fleet tied on Saturdays and Sundays and the Portuguese ships are weighing the yard that we cannot regret and other species because we have weekly rest? And that's making many Galician shipowners register their ships in Portugal. These are specific, simple questions, that you have not brought here a single balance of concrete, Mr. Rueda. How many points has grown or our GDP...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u93	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u94	...–Filled, Madam President—in particular, and in what sectors with the application of the previous period, Mr Rueda? To be honest, I think it is a lack of respect for Parliament that you do not bring these matters, which are very important, and even a lack of cooperation policies, to policies for the healthy use of European funds. It is disrespectful that, falling down what is raining and raining, Mr Rueda, you simply use Parliament to laugh at him and the citizens of Galicia. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u95	Thank you, Mrs. Soneira. People's Parliamentary Group. You have the floor to Mrs. Pardo López.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u96	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Vice-President. Thank you also for coming on your own initiative and considering this as a subject with sufficient importance and protagonistism to bring to a fuller. Unfortunately, neither the same opinion nor the attribution of the importance of some of the interventions by some of the groups that previously intervened are deduced. For the Community institutions, cross-border cooperation between cities and regions is one of the cornerstones of European integration and is also, in the opinion of the People's Parliamentary Group, the best way to gain in practice the real spirit of European citizenship. For this reason, since the Popular Parliamentary Group and after its appearance, we can only recognize that within the framework of the European Union the Council of Galicia has done a leading work of strategic alliances. We see this in the evolution of the euro area and the innovative projects that have been launched and implemented through the working community or the European territorial cooperation group. We see it in the macro-region, in which it was thought and launched, this Union of Galicia, and in which it grew, this Union of Galicia. We see this in that transnational partnership initiated in 2009 to achieve the European Fund Security Network in the framework programme in which we have already found ourselves. And I take advantage of it, Mrs. Peace – as you have those points in the office – to tell you that converging may not converge the same, we may not exceed that 90%, but I also tell you – and we have discussed it very much in committee and you know it perfectly – that we are a case, that we have managed to be –the Unity of Galicia – a unique case in Spain. And I'll give you numbers. You were talking about Asturias, weren't you?: 50%; I speak to you about Castela-León, I speak to you about Valencia – 33% –, I speak to you about Murcia, I speak to you about Ceuta and Melilla – 50% – by the effect of the in-out fade you commented on. I'm even talking to him about German regions and Greece, which got a little more than us, 75%, why, because they couldn't reach that 90 that we managed to overcome. Therefore, a single case in Spain and almost a single case in Europe. And not only that, but we don't have to concentrate our funds on 80% on the four priorities that the European Union has given us, but we can do it in 60%. We see it, Mr Vice-President, at a more micro and not less strategic level, in Eurocities, which we consider that structures of this nature constitute a fundamental instrument for the future development of second-generation cross-border cooperation. We see it, at a more macro level, with a more veteran AECT – I said before – really driven by the current Government, since it was the current Union that made it come true – after a purely symbolic signature back in 2008 – with the ultimate goal of becoming a dynamizer and interconnection agent for the euro region. Or, in other words, very simple: one: the Galician Union has been able to take advantage of the opportunities it offers to belong to a Member State of the Union; and two: the Galician Union believes in the benefits of cooperation. Over the past two decades, neighbouring territories and cities have carried out collaborative projects of the most diverse nature, but no one can deny – and after more hearing it here, Mr. Vice-President – that in that cooperation stage has rightly highlighted Galicia; exemplaryly, because we have heard it from the former Commissioner of Regional Development in the past year 2014. I know I repeat myself, because I used to use his words and those who wanted to hear him in his stay here in Galicia. Mr. Johannes Hahn to President Feijóo said textually: "I had the opportunity to see directly what the European Union's regional policy can do if local talent, vision and innovation are combined." For example, because Galicia, in addition to its euro area, stands out by these other forms of cross-border cooperation that the Union is pushing and I have already mentioned. For example, because many of the concrete initiatives and projects of cooperation with the north of Portugal have been considered good practice by the European Commission, and I would say more: collaboration between Galicia and the north of Portugal is an example of good practice in itself. For example, because this Government has presented the European Union's first cross-border investment plan, when many continue to be installed in the philosophy of getting funds to double investments across the border. It's a long and a whole bunch of fables. The vice president has already given here many numbers, which I will obviously not repeat, but, speaking of two that show the exemplary word I have insisted on repeating earlier. Of the few more than sixty existing cross-border conurbation formulas of the European Union, four are made up of different scales between Galicia and northern Portugal, and of the little more than thirty AECTs that exist in about twenty Member States of the European Union, two are in Galicia and northern Portugal: the AECT Galicia-North of Portugal and, on the other hand, the most recent creation of the Second-generation Transboundary Cooperation, probably the smallest from a population point of view in the European Union. On the other hand, the new European budgetary scenario – i.e. – dominates the territorial alliances to opt for funds to promote the productive and employment economy. In the new Community programming period just opened, it is necessary to launch the debate on those challenges that must be addressed by cross-border cooperation in order to maintain the development dynamics that have been promoted in recent years, and Galicia has already launched it. The European Commission has proposed to promote the formulae for cooperation with a new line of grants to promote greater rationality in public spending, and Galicia, the Galician Union, has quickly and intelligently gathered that glove in different scenarios, as the vice-president mentioned here mentioned, but I want to recapitulate: with the strengthening of the Galicia-North Portugal working community; with the definitive impetus of the EGTC, which is conquering the ambitious challenge of the private sector involvement in cross-border cooperation as a model of sharing and co-responsibility; with the support of the existing Eurocity Key-Verin and the momentum for the creation of the existing Euro-Eurocity Tui-Valence; with the creation by the Galician initiative of the macro-region and its growth with new accessions such as Asturias, because it seems that the Socialist Party, Mrs Soneira, in other communities if it believes in cross-border cooperation and joins Galicia to be stronger in this new Community framework programme. And from the PIC – not to repeat myself either with the broad exhibition already made by the vice-president – I only recapture the four pillars that have commented on us, and I want to point out that they have precisely one of the most important documents in the opinion of the People's Parliamentary Group at this time – I refer to the strategy of smart specialization in our community – an innovative euroregion that is committed to innovation and transfer, a competitive euroregion that is committed to employment, a high-quality and environmental euroregion and an exemplary euroregion in institutional training. The ICP has learned to be incardinated in the Europe 2020 guidelines and now we have to look for the – as it said – suitable for the interests to develop at every moment. With this document and the announcement that you made here the vice president of a strategy of intelligent specialization, a cross-border RIS, I think you're well defined and clear on the lines of work. While Europe is generally recommended from Brussels that the future of cross-border cooperation should come from local initiatives and from a common management of the resources of the border territories, here, to improve the quality of life of citizens, we already have two Eurocity initiatives here. We in Galicia can and do talk about joint planning of cross-border territories, joint and harmonic development of shared services, essential for socio-economic development and for a better quality of life in border territories. Congratulations, Mr President, because we believe that we can undoubtedly say that we have the most cohesive Euroregion, at least at least more cohesive in southern Europe. I wanted to make some points about what was said here, and I would say, for example, to Mrs. Díaz, who, from here coming to her house – she was talking about where those 19 billion euros were invested in Galicia that arrived in recent years – from here that she comes to her house, I assure you that she will pass and step through a lot of investments that were made with those 19 billion euros. From the R & D+i I only give you one example, which the vice-president also mentioned in this exemplary cross-border cooperation in Europe. I refer to the example of the Institute of Braga Nanotechnology. Mrs. Soneira would say...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u97	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u98	...or I would urge you to say that other colleagues from other autonomous communities do believe in cross-border cooperation, as is the case with Asturias. Or I'll give you another: Andalusia and the Algarve have recently asked for advice from the Galician Board of Eurosity Verín Keys and the Atlantic Axis to strengthen their cross-border cooperation with the Algarve. Mrs. Peace, fortunately, the vice president repeated this about coherence, he repeated what Mr. Gamallo has already told us last year, because that means that there is coherence and that he works very closely in a government that is one...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u99	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u100	...and that's not a bipartite. I'll finish then. I have more comments and answers to some of the doubts the fellow Members have made during their speeches. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u101	Thank you very much. Replica by the Vice-President and President's Adviser, Public Administrations and Justice.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u102	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning again. You talked to me in general -- I think all the opposition spokespersons, some more than others -- about my lack of passion explaining what are concrete targets and figures, because here we're talking about numbers, we're talking about quantities by which many territories, many administrations are fighting, and so we have to win them. I don't think so. In any case, nothing comparable to the general outrage also of all the spokesmen who spoke here in the name of the opposition because we come to the full talk of a subject that matters so much to Galicia. Apparently, you care a lot less than once you've spoken in the commission, although now we're about to start talking about projects, enough, and then these boring issues that don't matter to you, to the people who are waiting for these projects and who open up the deadlines, they're far more fortunate to them, because that's to say as much as they care about Galicia's development. Well, it seems to you that this subject remains in the full; not to us; that is why we speak, so we think it is important to speak at this moment, because within very little time the deadlines are opened and therefore we have to be – I insist again – ready not to lose a minute. Mrs. Martínez told me that there was no criticism of what we did during this period and that it's very difficult to try to hit the next one. Well, Mrs. Martínez, the two things: criticisms, of course there are, I just told Mrs. Carmen Pardo; here's just been the Regional Policy Commissioner, who has no need to come here to say things that are not true, saying that the funds have been well executed here, that the projects we've been presenting for months now are ready to get funding and that things have been done well. And he came here to say -- and he sees that there are regions in Europe -- and he came here to Galicia to say that things were doing well. Look at this chance! [[Applause]] I don't think he has any need to say things that are not true. I also wonder why the chairman of the board was appointed to the Committee of the Regions, among so many officials of regions throughout Europe, to make a ruling on how money should be spent properly. It'll be because we did it right here. What can we achieve 100% of the projects that come under European funds? We could. I think 100% didn't get it in any country in Europe, but I think a significant percentage, but we're still at the end of the N+2 period and I can assure you that we're doing our best to recover all the lost time we found in the first two years; we arrived here in 2009, the funds had us since the year 2007 and we hadn't done anything at all. That's the beginning, and that's why we now want to do things from the beginning, which is when we lay the groundwork for investing European money. For a few years, they've been living behind their backs. They may have thought that since there was no crisis there could be surplus funds and that European money was not needed and allowed two years to pass. I am very happy at this point to have that level of funding and these praises from the European leaders. Criticisms, or self-criticism, of course, yes; critics from all over the world, too, but also realism of those who know about this subject, of those who understand, of those who have to decide who still receives funds, who say that things here have been done well. I was talking about cooperation between universities, I was talking about CER. Hey, the CER is collaborating in the design of the program James, who didn't deserve any reflection from you. I think it's important, we're talking about it because it's running in this last run-up period of the POCEP funds, because, by the way, the second phase is being provided entirely by our Portuguese partners, it's not costing Galicia anything, and instead it's allowing many researchers, many teachers, many staff of the Greek universities to do stays and also members of the Portuguese universities to stay here. I think it's important, that it hasn't been done before, that it's good to have an Erasmus for us, and that it's certainly going to contribute to closer relations between the Greek and Portuguese universities, which I don't think is bad. This is not, as Mrs. Paz said, a language programme and therefore... no, no, it's a multidisciplinary program in which the eleven universities of Greece and Portugal have to come here personally into different fields; do not confuse the terms and inform themselves well in those papers that you have left in the office, Mrs. Paz. She told me Mrs. Martínez, she talked about Job Days and complained about the name. Look, it's the name they give you in Brussels, it's a programme sponsored by Brussels, I don't think that's what's important; the impotent thing is that in one and a half days that the days last, in the end, there were 48 employment contracts. In a day and a half, I think it's all right, thinking it's sectoral. Most of these contracts are still up to date and they're of a fixed nature and I'm sure that tracking and figures when you finish that program can be exposed, I'm sure that if you get 48 contracts in one and a half days or two days, that's because it's about starting the dynamics, it went on and sure there's more contracts now. For you, the only important thing is that you're called Job Days, because – I insist – it's the name that Brussels asks you to give to fund these programs, and I think the important thing is that people hire, and I'm sure that people who have got a job care a lot more than what they call themselves. I was told Mrs. Land Peace – and some other spokespersons – that I come here to say things that the Director of Foreign Relations has already said, Mr. Gamallo. Look, first of all, because things are as they are, and therefore they're not going to stop repeating them, but I think it's important to talk about them again -- I insist -- at a time since Mr. Gamallo appeared, at the moment when we thought it was necessary because if they were beginning to elaborate the strategies, now that the time has come, in a few months, and everything is ready and I insist that when talking about Europe this is very important, everything is ready to start asking for specific projects. We design the axes. I told him about the investment program, he's there – I'll leave him there, I suppose they'll know him; if not, I'll let him happen – and now what we're just drawing up – and here I wanted to come to talk about it – is the cross-border RIS3 strategy, which is very important, that this is going to be the pole of attraction to get funding, that we ask everyone to cooperate, you didn't want to know, well. I told them the axes, I'll tell them again: boost research, technological development and R & D+i, improve the competitiveness of pemes, promote sustainable growth and improve the management of natural resources, improve the institutional capacity and efficiency of public administration and promote employment. It's just that this is a strategy. These profiles have to hang up the different associations, institutions, administrations that are going to order supported projects in POCTEP. That's what we're working on, we're talking to everyone, we're also asking for the cooperation of the opposition political groups, which I think is very important, if they're important to these issues. It's nothing more than that, nothing more and nothing less. If you think that it's not important and that by ventilating it from year to year in a commission show it was enough, and that if you don't say the specific projects now, which are the ones that have to be presented, if you understand what this is going to be, eh! but as we don't bring them now, which is not the time to bring them, then it's not worth talking about, I honestly think you're wrong. Just like they're wrong – I think – when Mrs. Peace said we didn't come to tell stories because we talked about 90%. Listen, it's European statistics, it's the statistics that are used to measure whether we're going to have funding or not, and it turns out that if we're going to spend 90%, because other countries enter the European Union, it's not up to Galicia, but it's up to us to react to that situation where 90% of us are out of European funds. Look, if all the rigour you're applying is what you told me in the case of Asturias, that you didn't know if you said 75% or more, that we came here to be proud if you didn't do anything, you had 75%. He is well informed, Mrs. Paz; he had 35% and he reached 50% because the Socialist Government at that time drew from cohesion funds that he had Spain and that he no longer has, and probably, withdrawing them from Galicia, and put Asturias at 50%, in 55%, with cohesion funds that were for all and were for Asturias – not discussed whether or not he was going to proceed – but first, those funds did not go to Galicia, and second, Asturias by itself did not reach 35%. Here we're going to get with the sector funds to 80%, don't take away the credit you have or inform yourself well at least and don't say these things, because it shows that if you're not informed of that it's very difficult for the other things you say to have a minimum of rigour. [[Applause]] Now you'll see me saying I'm a proud man for telling you these things. No, I'm a person who tries to come here to say exact figures, because everyone is interested in talking about exact figures when we talk about money, Mrs. Peace. I think this is what we have to say. Like he tells me, in the EAFRD funds, no, there are now more EAFRD funds, but you have less. Indeed, Mrs Peace, because there are more countries, because more countries have entered, it has expanded and the EAFRD funds go to the new countries. However, if you compare the percentage between what we have in number of countries that have expanded, then we are winning, but I suppose that account doesn't interest you. From the James bags I've already told you, they go from something different to what you think, it's an innovative project, and I'm glad that there's a lot more requests in this second phase than there was in the first stage, which shows that we're right, which shows that there are a lot of workers from the eleven universities in Greece and Portugal who are interested in these stadiums, despite what you say. Look, Mrs. Díaz, an initial suggestion that, frankly, if passion is to defend the Greek model to take advantage of the resources that we want to get out of Europe, I think we're not doing well there; you believe that yes, I do not, honestly. As you said, we have a different ideology, but what we're interested in is that the money, the opportunities in Europe, apart from the German philosophies and protectorates you were talking about, look, there's some money at the disposal of the regions that know how to reach them, that present concrete projects, that know how to make good strategies, and we're right now in that work. The philosophies and the ideas of another style and another dimension we leave them to those who have to do them. What the citizens and the citizens of Greece are in charge of is that we should do our best to ensure that European money comes to Galicia. Other approaches of another kind can be made by you, but that doesn't allow for funds at a time when, as we don't reach them, other regions will reach them and then there will be no more possibilities. He was talking to me about Ariem 112. If you like, one day we'll talk about it. You always bring errands here from a number of people, and you say that it speaks for everything, it's always in possession of the truth of emergencies, and tell me specifically who has the position of command in a particular emergency. Look, that's what the simulations are for, that's what the simulations are for. You say there were a number of participants in those simulations that criticized them. Listen! for those who were there, first of all, didn't say that, I think the simulations were well thought out; and if the choice you put forward, on the other hand, is to say that we don't do anything, because this is worth nothing, and that when there is an emergency in a cross-border territory each one does what he can and looks at only his own, and at the end they won't look for anyone, we, of course, are not willing to do it. There is European funding to make this kind of approach, we are going to do it. Tell me, as always you talk about emergencies – which is always – about the truck that took two hours, and I'll tell you again that the truck was waiting for the ambulances to leave. I'd rather the ambulances get hurt than in a truck to pretend I don't know what. In that emergency, we acted well, and we don't assume anything. You keep with the usual, because you think you know a lot about this, and you know the same thing as me, the same thing that others can tell you, but I want to succeed and you intend to criticize without building anything, also in emergencies, which is a subject where we should be particularly responsible. Could not connect with command "%s": %s. [[Applause]] And, Mrs. Soneira, look, allow me to tell you, with all due respect and since you took the example: if you woke your parents up to confirm that this matter does not matter to you, you would excuse them and they could continue to sleep. He doesn't care about anything, he didn't prepare it, and for that the ten minutes he had spent eight and a half – that I timed them – talking about everything but this. As I'm interested in this, when you talk about it, we'll talk about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u103	Thank you very much. Special round of clarifications. Joint Group. Mrs. Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u104	Mr. Rueda, the truth is, I don't know who said it about the opposition voices, but you come here talking about generalities that we could have read perfectly in the document, you didn't tell us anything new; then honestly, for that you could send us an email, read this and it is, because it really didn't really contribute anything at all. But, in addition, when I talk about the lack of critical analysis, I don't say that the People's Party self-liquids and gets punished, but if it's important, always more than bragging about the great achievements, analyzing where we fail to be able to take positive steps and improve, something the People's Party is unable to do. So if you don't take into account the situation in Galicia and northern Portugal, which is a peripheral situation in economics and geographics, which therefore marks our future; a Galicia that has important demographic, economic and infrastructure deficiencies; therefore, more than convenience, if we want to solve the problems, we would have to look at what we have to solve, what we have done, who has not solved the problems and what needs to be changed. He was talking about European funds, the good that European funds were used. That's why we have the cleanup of the solved rivers, the high-capacity pathways are all necessary and thought in accordance with the interests of the people, the fishing sector is recovered and with quotas that are enchanted by the sailors of our country, both of bass fishing and of height. Let's not talk about the naval sector, which applauds the government every day for the sake of the naval sector. And already, as we spoke before, the agricultural sector, which is in the middle of ruin. And you come here to applaud, I don't know what they're applauding. You said, Job Days, that doesn't matter, because you don't care about language. You consent to everything, as if sent to us from now on to have all the classes in English, which gives them the most! If it doesn't matter to you, it seems to be a nuisance, which only serves to take the picture on May 17. You talk to yourself, and I was talking to you before, besides, that one of the things that needs to be valued would be the Lusophony, our language in Europe, which is not in value and which you don't care about either. You were talking about general goals, improving competitiveness in pemes. I, since I am in Parliament, is what I hear; now, what I look at is that in this country the pears are disappearing, they've closed a lot of businesses, they're still in a very difficult situation and the People's Party only offers them propaganda. So I don't understand his intervention, nor do I understand his triumphalism. After twenty-seven years of success from the People's Party, Galicia has the lowest salaries in the state, the lowest pensions in the state, a growing emigration – much like the 1960s, even though our boys and girls are now leaving with a lot of training –, a heavy unemployment, a vanishing birth rate with the aging of the population, a crippled naval sector, an alarmed and damaged fishing sector, an agricultural sector in disappearance, an industrial sector also missing from our territory...,
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u105	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u106	...the investments in missing R&D+i in our country, and let's not say anything about equality policies against gender-based violence. What triumphs does the People's Party tell us if in these twenty-seven years it has failed to solve any of the serious problems in our country? Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u107	Thank you very much, Mrs. Martínez. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. Mrs. Peace.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u108	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Vice-President, look, who is important to the theme of this initiative, this appearance; who is important to cross-border cooperation is who comes here saying nothing; who comes here simply to occupy time while we are numbing the opposition groups by preventing us from presenting initiatives; who comes here simply telling us what we criticize him, Mr. Vice-President – listen well; of course, if you are talking on the telephone and with all members of the People's Group, it's normal that later he doesn't understand what we say to him –... we what we tell him is that you..., we don't tell him that you can't come in April 2014 and February 2015 to talk about a matter if the matter requires it. [[Applause]] What we're telling you is that you came here and you've achieved less today than your Director of External Action a year ago. What we're telling you is that very little should you have worked in cross-border cooperation if you're not able to provide us with any more data about what they gave us a year ago. That's what we told him. And look, from the James, you, of course, are the first time you come here – because you come very little to Parliament – and so I see you don't know anything about what you're talking about in Parliament, not even the people who belong to your council. Because of the James I tell you that we have already spoken on April 29, but we have also spoken on December 13, less than two months ago; in the penultimate Committee 1 that was held in Parliament we have talked about the James scholarships. And so today I had no interest in talking about James, because two months ago he had absolutely all the data, the same data you gave us here today in this Parliament. That's why I in this Parliament, in this plenary today, thought that you, Vice-President, came to tell us something else; that you came to make a serious assessment of what was actually achieved with the 2007-2013 Operational Programme; that I came to tell you seriously about whether this is what you are selling as an achievement as it is to extend the euro region to Castile, Asturias, Cantabria and I don't know where it really is a achievement, or, as experts in cross-border cooperation say, it was an obstacle for you to actually develop the programmes and you were most distracted about walking around, advertising that really implementing cross-border cooperation. That's what I had to tell you today. And then I also had to come and tell us for 2014-2020 something more than the specific headings that mark the European Operational Programme. To say which were the investment priorities of the Galician Union, which were the priorities when choosing those European programmes. And you didn't tell us. He didn't tell us whether thermalism would be a priority or not. What is sustainable development? Will you tell me or explain it to me? Are you going to do something about the Natura 2000 network, which we have also shared with Portugal, like Gerês-Jurés, or not? What is sustainable development? Look, Mr Vice-President, sustainable mobility, it's another one of the headings. Tell me something about the Vigo-Oporto train, can you tell me something about it or not? Doesn't it play today, either? Isn't it a matter of cross-border cooperation? Are we going to have an electrified day in its entirety the line between Vigo and Porto? When will that be? With what funds? The Portuguese Government has committed itself to investing 100 million euros in that electrification, and the European Commission has approved three months ago 35 million euros to make a variant of three and a half kilometers. There's something else, because with those 35 million euros, three and a half, but the 100 electrification, because the same in 2030...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u109	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u110	...in the next perspective, we're talking about the end of that question. So we were asking him for specific questions. Specific questions such as: You have supported a law in this Parliament which says that the Lusophony must be approved. Does it not seem to you that the Northern Galician region of Portugal, in addition to being an opportunity in itself, is it an opportunity to establish commercial and all kinds of relations with all the countries of the Lusophony? Is that one of the lines of action planned under this 2014-2020 Program? It's just that you haven't told us anything specific, Mr Vice-President, and that's what we've been rebuking you from the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group. Because for us, indeed, interregional cooperation is important and European funds are very important. For you, of course, they are or are not very incompetent, because, as far as we know...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u111	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u112	...the German PDR is probably not going to be the first to pass; it's more, good is if it's the last to be approved. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u113	Thank you very much, Mrs. Paz. Parliamentary Group of the Left Galician Alternative. Mrs. Díaz Pérez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u114	Mr. Rueda, you have a problem with democracy, that's what happens to you. This is that you have chosen a theme to attend, you have come up on your own – as you say they appear – to choose the theme and now it seems bad to you that from the opposition we have to do the work that we have to do, that is to demand it concretion and even make a balance of what you are not doing. That's called having a problem with democracy or not knowing or not wanting something as fundamental as accountability. And the truth is, Mr. Rueda, you showed me that I wasn't ready for this show. You're not ready, Mr. Rueda, you didn't really know or took this as a sort of "mary" to whom I came here to fill the time of the first session of Parliament. Look, I'll talk to you again about the themes that are reflected in the plan. For example, on page 33 – for me to answer if you are able – speaks loudly, pointing out that the northern Galicia region of Portugal is in a very bad situation as it reaches accessibility resources. I ask you a specific question, so you can fulfill your role. Tell us what specific measures we are going to take in our country to improve this situation, on average levels that point to the report – I repeat, page 33 – of 40% or 60%, at best, in relation to the European average. What concrete measures? One, Mr Rueda, accessibility measures, chaotic situation, read the report. Secondly, Mr. Rueda, I'm also going to talk to you about specific things that the report talks about. For example, the patent media are dramatic, the half-Greeks in relation to Portugal – I am not inventing anything, the report itself. Half-Greek is in 10 patents per million inhabitants, right, the European average is in 111 per million inhabitants. Mr. Rueda, tell us what Galicia is going to do – I insist, since you're talking about both R & D+i and because the researchers and researchers in this country are angry – what you're going to do to improve these means in the pursuit of patents. Real things, basic things to modernize a country, Mr. Rueda, tell us something concrete. Also, Mr. Rueda, you're not really talking about improving the competitiveness of pears. A measure, Mr. Rueda, how? Create something, tell us how. You'll also realize what you're going to do if you stop locating production lines in the textile sector, in the automotive sector in the south of our country, which goes directly to Portugal. What measures are they going to take? And also – although you don't like it, Mr. Rueda – is my duty, I have to come here and talk about these issues. First, he speaks of the report, drawing a deep description of the situation in Galicia, that there are some very important projects in Galicia for financing projects linked to innovation and technology. Also, please, some concrete measures. What are you going to take with Abanca, who we're already at risk of losing, because it's going to be absorbed at the modern gift price that Mr Feijóo gave to the Venezuelan private bank? Now it goes to the other bank and everything's fine. What measures are we going to take so that we can fund these projects? I also invite you to read the project, because it's clear collected, I'm not inventing anything at all. And as far as emergencies are concerned – of what you don't like to talk about, Mr. Rueda, despite the fact that they spend 1 million euros on a car – of which you don't like to talk about, specific questions. Look, I'm going to give you an example of what happened just a few days ago, specifically in the line, in Vilandevos, what happened? So what happened is that they called 112, that 112 Portuguese came out, and you know what happened, that they weren't able to communicate with 112 Welsh.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u115	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u116	–I'm going to finish now, Madam President." So -- I'll tell you again -- how are we going to coordinate those emergency services? Please tell me, it's your duty. Command organization chart, how will communication networks be between Castela, Portugal and even Galicia? I suppose you'll know that. Or are you going to ride the chicken that went up with this call to 112? Because – I insist – this is a real case, I know you know it, although you don't like to talk about it. Third, when are we going to make the performance protocols, Mr. Rueda? Because there are no, there are no. And tell me specifically: how much time of reaction – you, who likes to talk about isochrons, and finished, Madam President – will there be if there is an emergency in which the three troops, from Castile, Galicia or, if you wish, from Galicia and Portugal have to act? Please tell me something specific to highlight or even say that today this appearance has served something.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u117	Thank you. Socialist Group. Mrs. Soneira.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u118	Thank you, Madam President. For one thing, Mr. Rueda, you know that older people tend to wake up early. Man, of course, if I set the example, I suppose you'll fire yours too when you leave and worry about if they're healthy, if they have the ordered pills, to let them know that they've got more or less everything left. [[Murmurs.]] Yeah, I said before I reconciled, I don't know if you... of course, but it's like that. Mr. Rueda, do you really believe that the control you exercise over the country, in all respects, is going to reach even if you want this parliamentary group to talk about what you want us to talk about? Mr. Wheel, of course, is that the story would be for note, because, look, I believe in the cures that celebrate Mass, not in the cures that say Mass routinely and that they do not believe in anything that happens there. And you come here because you played, because they realized on a day that they didn't... Man, if you didn't show up, some would have to accept the opposition. Well, I've already told you that we have several hundred; the rest of the groups, so many others. And, of course, you've had this thing, come their inspiration, because it's not true that we don't believe in cooperation. Mr. Rueda, but if this honourable Member, when you invite me to the assemblies, I am there, collecting the documentation, studying it, reading it. We have discussed it on several occasions, both in the Committee on European Affairs and in the Commission. I call in my defense a witness, Mr. President, that we have talked about a lot of these issues. But of course, what's going on here, Mr. Rueda? That you have things you don't want to talk about. And you've expressly asked for attendance, both in full and in commission, and you don't want to talk, Mr. Rueda. For example, today I challenge you: what do you not ask to attend to explain to us what is going on, for example, with the Adscribed National Police Unit in Galicia? I dare you to ask for your presence and tell us why you promoted a person convicted of torture to the highest rank. Why? Why is there this affinity? Why on certain issues does Mr President-in-Office, Vice-President of the Council, despite his express request, not want to appear? Man, I think I should. You spoke, appealed to the people who are waiting for these European funds. Obviously, the agricultural and forestry sector has a huge concern. You know that if you don't approve the PDR or if you approve it late, or this level of uncertainty that you've put it in is not concrete, all the programs of the Galician Forest Board, projects that are being developed over the years, or the agri-environmental measures, or all the equipment that you have from agricultural organizations to certain service companies that live in these funds and bring to training a lot of services, our rural environment, do you think these people aren't worried about today? This gives the impression that only the Government is concerned, but, of course, the Government is presenting the papers in Europe in this way – it says Mass rather than Mass – and in the end when Europe says: "That's right, how are you not going to be worried?" You don't think the aquaculture companies in this country have any concerns, companies that are willing to resource and that have been six years without opening a single square meter...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u119	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u120	...of an aquatic project in this country, when they came in as they came in and said what they said. Anyway, what do you tell us about scholarships, Mr. Rueda, when OECD just told you it was a disaster? It's written, it's yesterday or early, man! And, of course, they come to tell us that we don't believe in the policy of border and transrexional collaboration. Look, Mr. Rueda, frankly, you, like the priests who say Mass and do not believe in everything they do there, also come here because there was to come, and what we don't believe in our group is in you; don't find them the beliefs we don't deny, because I told you before fatherhood, motherhood, and, above all, on this side and not on that, and who put the cements went from Vigo and from Porto to the socialist governments, who consolidated it, and now you drive the car more badly than well, was another Government and another president who is not the current one. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u121	Thank you very much. People's Group. Mrs. Pardo López.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u122	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mrs. Martínez, of the great failings she said she had the cooperation or had the cross-border cooperation of the Galician Union I heard only the example of James. So I repeat and I welcome the party that is ruling, because so far 250 beneficiaries in both calls. You were talking about a foundation that was under siege in a country I couldn't ask for European funds. Dominotes yourself, Mrs. Martínez. The European Union demands that the EGTC select a country – Spain or Portugal – the AECT Galicia-North of Portugal has chosen, precisely Spain is in Vigo, to be able to choose to manage European funds and joint services and infrastructure. [[Applause]] You wanted examples of cooperation in pemes. Well, it was the People's Party, specifically a local administration of the People's Party, that of Verín, and a local administration of the PSD – brother of the People's Party in Portugal – which created – and I am also responding to Mrs Peace – the first cross-border tourist packages in the European Union; administrations of the People's Party. You said that if this had to do with improving quality of life, cross-border cooperation had to improve quality of life. And when every day of the citizens of the bank, the border area, there's some improvement in access or leisure or business, that's life improvement. And I assure you, first-hand, that the People's Party is doing so, thanks – and not only – to cross-border cooperation. Mrs. Peace, I have been giving you some news since 2014, since Mr. Gamallo was here regarding the appearance of the vice president. A cross-border RIS, the first of the European Union. Volume targets for the next POCTEP, Operational Programme of Cross-border Cooperation Spain-Portugal. POCTEP's balance that we're about to finish; you know as well as I am the N+2 rule, i. e. the point that we're almost done. Definitive volume of European funds for the framework programme we have now begun. And he wants to talk to me about thermalism. The first hotel spa school on the Iberian Peninsula was designed thanks to European funds. As you know, European funds now don't want cement, they want R & D, which has been talked about here a lot. Well, the first school spa hotel is designed in the Eurocity Keys-Verín. Thanks to European funds the architectural project was made, thanks to European funds the programmatic content was designed and thanks to European funds the action plan for this school spa hotel was established. Now you have to enter the private sector for your development – say physical and tangible. He should rejoice, as weirense – because I understand that in Ferrol or on the Coast of Death, they don't know POCEP, they live more than 150 kilometers from the border and therefore they don't have access to it – but, as werense, he should rejoice at the good that is going to lead the Oresan thermalism. [[Applause]] Mrs. Díaz, try to compare GDP per capita, compare average patents, compare I don't know how many things. We didn't come here to talk about comparison, we came here to talk about cooperation, which are quite different things. And, Mrs. Soneira, to finish up, you were in Baiona – I'm sure you saw her there – a year ago, where we were told about that joint investment plan. And as Mr. Vice President well said, at least he could have read the pen that we were given there with that plan and talked about it here today. Without subjectivity, ladies and gentlemen, here we have been told, the vice-president spoke of cooperation on health, education, tourism, business in general, cultural, environmental – visit, Mrs Martínez, the eco-viy of the Thamega, paid with European funds, cross-border, by the way – in the area of emergency management, in the field of languages and in the field of heritage and in a long et cetera. Without subjectivity and data, the vice-president told us of social results, in people directly benefiting from concrete initiatives and in economic results of fund-raising. No subjectivities. It is not by chance that he was the president of Galicia who was chosen to be the editor of the recommendation for a better spending on the Committee of the Regions. And now yes, a subjectivity – the last one, to finish –. January 2009 – therefore, pre-electoral moment, that 1 March 2009 –, Guimarães, Portugal, Assembly of the Atlantic Axis, present: German and Portuguese mayors of different colors, this one speaks to you Lieutenant Mayor. This is not the synopsis of a film, it was to simply draw your attention. A member of the left-hand side, who is today a Member – he was not – with another position – commented on the back: we, this of working together with the Portuguese, taking advantage of synergy and establishing common strategies, know nothing compared to what led by Mr Manuel Fraga and the People's Party until 2005. This one I want to tell you heard in January 2001.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u123	Thank you very much, Mrs. Pardo. Finish, please. You have the floor to close the debate, the Vice-President and President-in-Office, Public Administrations and Justice, Mr Alfonso Rueda Valenzuela.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u124	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm sorry to tell you: if I come here or any government member, to talk about things that aren't interesting; if we don't show up, it's because we're not interested in talking about things that you're interested in talking about. We talk here about things that we think are important, something else is the importance that you give them later, but we always come here to talk about things that we think matter to the whole of the Greeks. Then the result can be like what we just had this morning. And you're right, Mrs. Peace, I was talking on the phone when you were talking, because I still think you're coming here with a little rigor, and you're picking up Asturias' data. I've seen that you haven't answered me, of course; for I've already told you, if your rigor in everything is like the figures you give us for funding, so you can go. Mrs. Soneira, of course, you tell me: no, it's just that I don't understand democracy, because it turns out that I come here and you want to talk to me about the subject that we propose in the audience, when you can talk about anything, like you did on the other side. You were the one who raised the issue of your family. I told him, with all due respect, that, honestly, for that, he didn't have to say anything to him, but you did. I say it because then, as you made another allusion, you have to think a little bit about how things start. But, in any case, I'm going to what I'm interested in about everything he said about appearance, and I'm telling him, yes, I honestly, fool about myself, I still hope that, when we pose an appearance, you talk about the data, and preparing the appearance, of what we've come to propose; you haven't done it for the first or second time. Which, by the way, I have to tell you that you said we lived badly of what socialist governments did. I mean, from 2007 to 2009, when there was money because there wasn't yet to fight, because we still didn't go out in 2007 by 90 percent and therefore from the target of convergence, we arrived and everything wasn't running. So you would get money, which came from yours, because it was under 90 percent, but they didn't execute anything at all. And, by the way, also, speaking of cross-border cooperation Spain-Portugal and Galicia-North of Portugal, I must say that it was a socialist government that lets the cooperation authority on cross-border funds go to Extreme, which is where it is decided, really, at the end of the projects proposed from Galicia, and here we were finally given the FP's consolation prize that we are now using. Nothing was said here. I thought so, but it doesn't give you any value. We give it to him. And I have to tell him that when we arrived in 2009, after making a lot of propaganda, I thought it was a center that was running, but it turns out they had no thirst, no staff, no budget, nothing at all, and we had to put it into action in a hurry and running, because it had already passed the great opportunity to have the decision center that you gave it to Extremadura, yet disregarding the fact that here almost 45% of the cross-border cooperation funds are managed from Galicia, and very little from Extremadura. But, of course, we had to go to Extremadura, because I suppose they'd have some favor to pay for. That was cross-border cooperation as understood by the Socialist Government. Therefore, the data are what they are, and now that you come to me telling me that they have done great things and we nothing, has already told Mrs. Carmen Pardo the tradition that we have, which comes from many years, does not come from now, and we want to keep having those funds. Mrs. Díaz, you always know very much, I don't know anything, I come here without preparing anything, I come here to tell me how to do things. Look, I was telling you, I'm gonna leave the PIC here, which obviously doesn't know him. It's just, really, that POCEP is going to do that, it's going to make the proposals – and they're here at everything you asked me and many more things, I have here underlined those that asked, but there's a lot more – what we want to do after detecting the great problems, indeed, in all the eids that Galicia has and northern Portugal, and now comes a moment during these months – and that's why this is this appearance – that all those interested in providing projects and getting funding do it. Here's how we want to respond to things, how we want to try to resolve according to large strategic frameworks, it doesn't ask for a realization, which is what we have to do now, that's what we're doing with RIS3 and that's what we want companies, associations do. And that this goes from all of this, Mrs. Díaz, and that if you don't explain how POCEP is going and how you get funds, it's very difficult to explain it to you, and it's very easy for you to tell me these leftovers that always tell me, specifically answer me the specific questions of eternal science that you always have above all. Look, this doesn't work out, I've already told you: there's a lot of things we both know the same thing, the bad thing is that I recognize it and you always know everything. Let him illustrate himself a little more, let him illustrate himself a little more. [[Applause]] But I can tell you that, about projects and how to allocate funds, I, for my government responsibility, am fortunately obliged to know a lot more than you do. And, look, finally, I'm glad, to close this appearance – since it's up to me, on behalf of the Government, to be agreeing with the universities where this is the time to join in to get funds and to present projects that would not have funding if it hadn't been otherwise. I think this is important, and all the universities, the three Galicians and the eight Portuguese, so they understood. I'm glad to be agreeing with the unions, which, apart from the legitimate interests that each one has, have also realized that it is time to be united and that Europe and cross-border cooperation is an opportunity, and so we will explain it within a few days at that meeting that we are going to have, to say that here we are united, to present concrete projects, in order, indeed, to achieve ever more convergence between the labour market in northern Portugal and Galicia, that I agree that even now I do not converge, and that creates problems, but also the unions agree, they also agree with the authority of northern Portugal, and that is why we are going to meet, and I am glad to coincide with it. I'm glad I agreed, for example, with Andalusia. It seems to you, too, to Mrs. Peace, it seems to her something that came to me! if Asturias did nothing and got more. I'm glad to have coincided with Andalusia in that union, aside from political colors, to get what Andalusia also achieved, which is to have that safety net, and not fail to perceive funds that we would no longer perceive, Mrs. Paz, if there had not been that union and there had not been that convergence over political colors. I'm glad Andalusia has given her the importance you didn't give her. And I am also glad to coincide with Asturias, since we speak of another government, which is not of the People's Party, where it is important to join together, it is important to create bigger and bigger networks to get funding that is getting more and more away from the small associations, and Europe is more and more dedicated to people who work with time, who work rigorously, who don't fall into demagogy and who understand that Europe, apart from great philosophers who can have some and great approaches that don't correspond to the Autonomous Community, Europe is to be working ahead of time, to be working hard, to have a baggage behind and not to escape money, that if we let us escape they will safely go to others who are not wasting their time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u125	Thank you very much, Counselor. Agenda change.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u126	Before suspending the session, inform your lords of two changes in the agenda, those that have to see – I think they are already familiar with all spokesmen – with the non-law proposition that is in the third order, 4.3 AGE, which will be substanceed today at the beginning of the plenary – which is already ahead of them at four and a half – and 4.4, which will be dealt with tomorrow after the questions to the president, and the AGE 4.6 PNL and 4.7 BNG, which will be discussed together. So let's suspend the session until this afternoon at 4:30. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u127	Point 4 of the agenda, non-legislative proposals, as has already been reported in the morning, has a change in the agenda. So let's start with the next non-law proposition. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Alternative Galician Left, at the initiative of Da Yolanda Díaz Pérez and Da Eva Solla Fernández, on the position of the Galician Parliament and the action to be carried out by the Government of Greece in relation to the work shifts proposed at the meeting of 21 November 2014 for staff enrolled in the support centres dependent on the Labour and Welfare Council
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u128	No amendments have been tabled to this non-law proposal. You have the floor, to express it, Mrs. Yolanda Díaz Pérez, of the Parliamentary Group of the Alternative Galga de Left.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u129	Good afternoon. First of all, I want to welcome the workers who are in the Chamber, together with us, from various welfare centres and also from others who are actually inside Parliament because they cannot be in the Chamber itself. Go for them, because, without a doubt, they are the ones who are suffering the consequences of the policy that the Welfare Council is practicing in our country. Secondly, I would like to regret the lack of interest the welfare advisor has in this matter. I say it because it doesn't even bother in this substance to make presence and even, I insist, to be interested in a severe problem that the workers, the workers, or that they are living a fundamental public service in our country. This is the political responsibility of the branch. What are we interested in this initiative? Well, something so obvious that I know they know perfectly well the men and women of the People's Party. As you know, we've been visiting the welfare centers in the province of Coruña for several months, and we've met first-hand, perfectly, what's happening in the welfare centers, especially in terms of the slave regime that the People's Party is practicing with the workers – practically all of them workers – and also workers, who suffer, I insist, their consequences. The first and fundamental thing is that, indeed, the People's Party, as you know, has said Law 1/2012 of February 29, which directly attacks the rights of workers and civil servants. But this rule also carries with it the suspension of a basic and fundamental precept for workers and workers of welfare dependent centres, as is rightly Article 19 of the Fifth Collective Public Administration Convention, which I read. He says, "Restaurant and holidays. Weekly rest. Workers and workers will be entitled to a minimum of two uninterrupted days' rest, which, as a general rule, will cover Saturday and Sunday. In those centres where the provision of services is necessary on Saturdays and Sundays, they can provide the necessary forecasts so that workers and workers will enjoy the weekly rest in advance." It follows in different precepts, however, by pointing out what are the characteristics of the provision of this public service on holidays, on Sundays or even, I insist, on weekends. What happened? Well, what happened is that the suspension of Article 19 of the Fifth Collective Convention says that in an ordinary public administration regime it causes prejudice, but it doesn't cause as many prejudices as these workers and workers who are going to provide services in centres that are hybrid; that is, nothing happens in workers and workers who normally work from 8 to 3, so to speak, but, indeed, it's not the case of the workers who are here today. They are workers who, like in health care centers, work for 365 days a year at 24 hours a day; it's as if they were or as if they were hospitals, I insist, of a health nature. Therefore, as such centres, they would require this mandatory minimum rest which is requiring regulation and that of which, by course, we already have different judgments won by workers referring to collective conflicts, which they have won – I insist – the class unions they have claimed. And I want to tell you, for you to know it, that these workers are working -- let's say that by providing a fundamental public service -- with people in very poor conditions, as you can imagine, with scarce resources of all kinds, materials; but the most serious thing is that the suspension of this article 19 of the V Collective Convention actually causes them to work for seven days a week in a way that even with alterations can happen if they work for nine days in a row, they rest one and they are not respected on sailing day, and even many workers and workers who only get to rest one weekend a month. This is the policy practised by the People's Party for reconciling working and family life. This is the reality of your propaganda policy. He said there are two judgements of the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia of the Social that question, combat and even annulled the posters which the People's Party had signed and substance, the Councillor of Welfare – not present today. But there is a bigger trap that the People's Party – and that they know, in addition – is what it has to do with that intended rest that you defend, which is the overhaul with the necessary rest day of a minimum of 12 hours that sets out the Staff Regulations. I'll read exactly what one of the judgments on this matter says. And he says, "Actually, according to the Supreme Court's case law, the employer must prevent the weekly rest of the day and half of the day from overlapping with the daily rest of 12 hours and it should be done on a weekly or bimonthly basis." To keep on saying, "The fact is that the weekly and daily rest periods are different and obey the different purpose, which must therefore be calculated separately; they must begin the 12 hours of daily rest once they have completed the working day to enable the daily recovery of work, starting – and I said the sentence – the calculated here two days of weekly rest only after they actually enjoyed the 12 hours of daily rest." The Council not only does it not respect the rulings that have been made, but, in the negotiation undertaken to negotiate the cartels of this year 2015, it is wrong to do so. And I'm going to literally read the instructions that come from the Council. "In order to comply with Article 18.6 of the collective agreement, we want to negotiate the cartel." And what are the conditions of the General Technical Secretary of the Council? First, 7 consecutive days of work, 3 consecutive nights of work, and the guarantee of a minimum rest of 48 hours. And then, so you can see how workers' rights are permanently violated. But, said this, the staff situation is tremendous. I want to point out the situation of many of the centers that are in bad condition, but I'm going to highlight two: one, the centre of older people in Caranza. Anyone knows how to find him. The photos speak for themselves, with obvious holes and with works that are third-worldists. But if you'll excuse me, the situation is also marked in the center of Oleiros. I'm going to tell you that I would like the voice of the People's Party to explain here what are the reasons, for example, why the director of downtown Oleiros has a house in the center, suffocated with public resources, and a house, in addition, which has the surprising new to enjoy a pool, which, in theory, was a project to be enjoyed by the users and users of the center, and which is being employed directly by the director of that house. But in addition, I want to point out that the conditions in which Oleiros' staff lends their work are of slavery and are from the dark times of frankism. There is a regime of terror in the center of Oleiros that not only represses workers and workers who dare to interfere, for example, or claim their rights, but also threats, not veiled, but real threats. The situation in the centre is inexhaustible. I invite Mrs. Rodríguez – just like the advisor does not present – to visit the center to see what conditions they are in. There are 284 users and users. For them to know, they don't comply with regulations, they have to work two people together; it's impossible. He's taking care of a single worker, for every night, every plant, and he lacks the essential material means. For example, as you know, not on the ground floor, but on the third floor, on the fourth floor and on the fifth floor, the beds are not electric, they are cranky and there are no cranes – they are now going to buy two cranes – that is, they lack the minimum elements to perform that service with functions, let's say, of some dignity.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u130	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u131	Finally, Madam President, I would like to point out that we are asking this House to tell us what the level of absenteeism in that center is, because I will tell you. In September, we had 33% of the payroll template. I also want to point out that the borrower that provides services in that center forces the workers, for example, to go, when they bear weights with people who weigh more than 100 kilograms, for example, nothing more and nothing less than crutches. And then it goes on. Therefore, Madam President, we call for the vote in favour of this initiative, which has two points: a simple one, to reprobate the social policy of the adviser – not present in this Chamber – and, secondly, of course, to remove the posters that re-imposed the workers and workers of the welfare centres. I hope, Madam President, that, since they have so much social commitment and are so concerned about the well-being of this country, they vote in favour of this initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u132	Thank you very much. Intervention of parliamentary groups. The Joint Parliamentary Group has the floor to Mrs Iglesias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u133	Good afternoon. Thank you very much, Madam President. Good afternoon, welcome the workers you're there. It's very frustrating to know that you're right, that the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia confirms it, but that the political leader, who is thrown into an immobilist position, refuses to apply this sentence anymore, even if he negotiates it. The workers of the old-age centres and social services that depend on the Galician Union in the province of Coruña had a few days of work like those around the world, more or less: one weekend was released and another worked; and no more than 5 days worked in a row. But in 2013 the Council decided unilaterally to change all this for abusive turns that the High Court of Justice considers unbalanced – and attention to the word – unfair – unjust! – with stressful and abusive turns. According to the IGC, workers at work and well-being are the collective most punished by the cuts and the theft of rights historically acquired within the staff of the union, no less or less. They keep from the company committee that work shifts in care centers to older and younger people have sequences of 7 continuous days of work, with 3 consecutive nights, releasing only 1 out of every 3 Sunday. There's no rule that regulates the holiday book, so you're working most of them, and there's suspicion of having to work all the holidays without any kind of compensation. How is this defined in that political electoral language?, do I work? No, I'd call it slavery. This burden of work is given, among other things, by Mrs Mato's negative "direct" – among other things – to cover the casualties that occur in the centers of direct care, and thus the departments of nursing, cleaning, cooking and ordering are always under minimum, with lack of staff and having to supply this shortage by folding the days and overloading the workers. All of this means a dizzying increase in labour casualties, both by accident and by common disease, and with the fabulous reforms of this government, it means a decrease in wages already by itself of spinach and without updating since this swindle-crisis gave them the arguments to charge against the workers' rights that it has so much cost to achieve. A group of 5 does not reach the EUR 1,000 salary, so the discount applied for days off is unsustainable for a family economy that depends on this salary; not to mention the impossibility of reconciling work and family, and we no longer say leisure – impossible in the lives of human beings – with these medieval shifts and working conditions. And we still have to listen, without being heard by the members of this government every time they go up to this lecture, talk to us about their wonderful management, give up in praise and praise to the health, administrative, fire and social services staff, while they manage and govern, I repeat...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u134	Please be quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u135	...–thanks, Madam President – authoritatively – I repeat the words of the court – unfairly against the most basic rights of workers, such as the right to health, to work protection, to collective bargaining or to decent wages. While the PP scares and warns you against the populist drift of political formations, it turns out that it is innocently practicing a recalcitrant electoral populism. The Joint Group supports this initiative...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u136	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u137	...and disapproves of Mrs Mato's management. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u138	Thank you very much, Mrs. Churches. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs. Adán Villamarín.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u139	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, firstly, to the workers who accompany us, also to all of whom I am sure they wanted to be here in this debate and who I am sure they are following it and also to the Members and Members. This is an example of what the slogan of the People's Party means to do more with less. After reducing 670 jobs in the TPPs, after reducing more than 800 jobs in the accumulation of tasks, because people who retain their jobs – literally, said by themselves – have working conditions of slavery. I think they have just been explained to perfection, although many Members and Members of the People's Party were not listening to the spokespersons who preceded me in their speaking turn, but I think it's very clear how the conditions in which the welfare workers and the welfare workers are currently completely abusive, in a council that takes up the name of Work and Wellness and which applies a qualified regime by the slave workers themselves; a regime – a lot of data has passed – for example, which has increased the number of casualties between 60% and 70%, according to the data of the mutuals themselves. Look at what it means to work with people who need great attention, reduced all, besides, the physical conditions for that work – less cranes, a very old and non-renewable material – and, besides, with an important psychological burden, when very personal, once they are eliminated, for example, the accumulation of tasks, is not contracted during vacations; notice what it means to take up all that work as they are currently taking over the workers. Because the public services and, in particular, the services of the elderly and the minors are maintained by the commitment of that personal, which is what is paying direct attention to users today, not from now on by the concern of the labour and welfare adviser, who is absolutely ashamed – and I also want to quote here – that he is not present today in the debate, on a subject so quite sensitive, which depends directly on the decisions made by this counselor, that he decides to privatize the centres of older people and to go slowly reducing public centers and subjecting his workers to this regime of slavery. The judgments are very clear, the position of workers and workers too, and their denunciation, even in matters such as the quality of food has diminished. You probably read it in the press, but they told us to the different parliamentary groups that older people had worse quality food and that they have less leather even for the different changes they have to make. That's the reality you're living in older centers. We are of course going to support this initiative and we also want to use this intervention to demand that the Labour and Welfare Council stop privatizing them; that public centres are tightening them so that they actually try to lose quality and then be able to make their roadmap, which we know well, that is that of privatization. That's why we want to bless the efforts of workers to hear their voice coming out of the press and bring these issues to the House. It's shameful that an irresponsible as a work and well-being advisor never worry about the centres that depend on the Council, the attention centers for older people, dependent people who, as previously reported, are in conditions that in many respects are subhuman. The truth is that years ago it would be incredible for us to have to come to this Parliament simply to defend that workers primarily from the services of well-being are treated with dignity, which is exactly what they ask us to do, and they also make a comparison that we can all understand, which is the comparison with Sergas, where after all that loss of rights, however, well-being workers seem to be second or third-time workers for so many times appointed and always absent Labour and Well-being advisor. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u140	Thank you, Mrs. Adam. Socialist Group, Mrs Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u141	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon, I also want to welcome, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, the workers who are with us here today to hear how, through the groups, at least the opposition – I wish we were all – we would like to move here the reality of what is happening in the public centers of the Labour and Welfare Council in recent years. I really thought I'd start as Mrs. Adam began, saying that this is the most obvious finding that you can't do more with less, but, as Mrs. Adam has already done, I'll tell you otherwise. It is clear that if a government takes away from the budgets of the Galician Union no less than EUR 4,016 million in six years' social policy, or if we only reduce it to the Labour and Welfare Council more than EUR 530 million that are cut to that board in the past six years, the consequences are in sight and are these. And this is not done because there is no economic resources but because there is a determined political strategy, which is that with the economic resources that exist, that there could be more if another fiscal policy was made, because it could vary, for example, the income chapter of the Autonomous Community through a different taxation, by charging taxes on those who have the most or create a new tax, for example, for the polluting industries, etc., etc., as we have argued here from the Socialist Group many times. When you don't want to make a different fiscal policy and use resources and only, you only use savings through spending cuts, actually, if you don't give political priority to essential public services if you continue to give in the same conditions, these things happen. I, at the meeting that I had with the workers and workers at the Centres of the Council of Labour and Welfare throughout Galicia, because the Work Councillor these days was trying to minimize the problem by saying that they were only determined centers in the province of Coruña, and are not public centers throughout Galicia, is that I was impressed by what they told me, not only by the precarious working conditions that the workers are suffering from, which result in their poor health, because they are influencing the physical aspect, but also by the psychic aspect of the workers and workers, but by a decrease in the quality of the service provided to the people who are in these centres of care to people with disabilities in these centres for older people. I was impressed not only by this physical and mental suffering, by the long working days, by the exhausting periods without rest, by those increasingly abundant professional diseases, which remain unrecognized to this day, but also by the cuts and shortages of means to which they work. When you listen to workers and workers from these centers, who, I insist, are every day with older people, with people with disabilities, telling us that they are cut into the food, that they are cut into the skins, that they are cut into moisturizing creams that they are given to people who are long in bed to prevent them from producing ladders, that people who have to be for whatever reason, tied up or subject, cannot be put on their wrists or legs and that causes them ulcers, when we are talking about these kinds of issues, is when we show that we have a government that is absolutely insensitive to people's problems, as President Feijó shows every day, and, of course, the absent Labour and Wellness Council. A president who will never see him in any photograph in the media with the people who suffer, with the people who have been cut off their rights, with the people who are being mistreated with an unbearable burden of work. Because it's obvious that the situation that workers and workers are living today and that people who are in these public centers have a lot to do with the abolition of 800 accumulated jobs, the accumulation of tasks, and the destruction of 700 jobs more throughout the Council since Mr Feijóo's rule. This is what needs to be noticed. We cannot continue in this situation, because there are resources to reverse this situation, what needs is political will...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u142	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u143	...another distinct political strategy, of course not the one the People's Party has, who never thinks of those who need it most. We support, of course, Mrs Díaz's initiative and we also announce that the Socialist Group will continue to reiterate this situation and denounce it both in the plenary and in the 5th Commission of this Parliament to try to ensure that the women and men who work in these centres and the people who are in these centres are treated with dignity at least. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u144	Thank you, Mrs Gallego. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs Rodríguez Arias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u145	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, everyone. Good afternoon, too, to the workers who accompany us. Mrs Díaz, first of all, to clarify that this initiative is not an interpellation. If you want to talk about questions from the Council, you have to file an inquiry and ask the Labour and Wellness Counsellor, because what you are presenting is a non-clear law proposal, with two points. So, if you have any doubts about what you just assured here, present an inquiry and discuss it with the Work and Wellness Advisor. First of all, I think it is necessary to clarify that the Labour and Welfare Council complies with the existing legislation, both in the workplace and in the field of social services provision. And it is also necessary to clarify that the ratio of attention is being complied with; that is, the number of staff required to adequately care for older people. If we talk about the demand for collective conflict by the 2013 work shifts, which is what your initiative refers to, the staff of the Labour and Welfare Council, as you know, if you reject by the V Single Collective Staff Convention of the Galician Union, which, in its article 18.6, provides that in those work centres that have shifts, these will be negotiated with staff representatives in order to ensure that rotations are balanced between staff. In your own judgment of what you're talking about in your initiative, it is recalled that since at least 2011 the territorial head of the Council and the works council of the staff were negotiating their labour portfolios in December of the previous year. When does the conflict arise? The conflict, as you know, wakes up with the work shifts of the year 2013. On this issue, the following questions need to be clarified: first, the judgement of the High Court of Justice partially assesses the demand in part of the turns from to 2013. It is a declarative judgment, and it is based on the speed with which the 2013 work shifts were negotiated by employees of the senior residences, juvenile centres and other dependents of the Council of Labour and Welfare in the province of Coruña, which was held on 18 March 2013 when the first meeting was held to negotiate the same year's shifts and in which the delay in the 2013 shift negotiations was a timely issue, as we have just demonstrated and we will demonstrate, due to the processing of budgets, the budgets of the Board of Galicia, which took place in February of that same year. The established shifts respect legality and conform to working conditions. The judgment, Mrs Díaz, is that on successive occasions the negotiation of shiftwork is done in the month of December of the previous year, as has been done until now, always. It is shown in the judgment that the meeting is convened on 9 December 2013 to negotiate the 2014 rounds. Therefore, the judgment acknowledges that the territorial head of the Council and the works council of the staff negotiate the work cartels in December of the previous year. The delay in the 2013 shift negotiation was a timely issue, a timely issue that did not happen in previous years, nor did it happen in later 2013. I'm sure the Labour and Welfare Council has a desire for dialogue and agreement on work shifts. Of course, we will not accept your initiative, because, when you talk about reprobating the behavior of the counselor – not because you abuse the rights of the workers, but because you are in a slave regime – you will understand that when you claim that the quality of public services is deteriorating, your responsibility, because I would like to remind you that certain matters that are stated in this Parliament would have to be reviewed, because you have perfectly clear the data, because there was little time that the Labour and Welfare Councillor was in this Parliament explaining the public squares that have been set up all these years, and I have made clear the budget that is going to be allocated not only to public squares, but to people who need it most. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u146	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Arias. Replica. Parliamentary Group of the Left Galician Alternative. From Mrs. Díaz's seat. Mrs. Díaz, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u147	Firstly, thanks to the opposition groups, the Joint Group, the Block Group and the PSdEG-PSOE support for this initiative; it is not a minor issue. Secondly, Mr. President, I will hand you nothing more and nothing less than 115 signatures of workers and workers yesterday in two hours gathered only in the center of Oleiros. And since Mrs. Rodríguez says she's willing to negotiate with the advisor, let's hope that he will listen to the workers and comply with the legislation. I will read to you, Mrs. Rodríguez, a paragraph before the judgment of one of the judgments, and says, "This court declares the right of workers included in the scope of the application of the article of the V Collective Convention to enjoy in a real and effective way, differentiated and independent of weekly rests" – I insist, two uninterrupted and daily days, twelve hours – "without any assumption that the limit of daily rest may be overshadowed by the weekly or subsumed rest time, computed or mixed within this." So they take the demand. Mrs. Rodríguez, your advisor, who is not present, who shows no interest in this subject, nor respects workers or workers, is violating the Vigilant legislation. You're causing distortions or you're providing public services to the workers, who are sick, Mrs. Rodríguez. In September, 33 percent of the people who are unemployed, women and men, who, as you know, can't get sick by providing a public service. I would like to take this opportunity to point out a few issues that I had no time to say before, Mr President. Multidisciplinary groups one day we're going to have a problem in this country because they don't cover their casualties. On vacations they don't cover their casualties. The centers are left without an optional, they are without psychologists; one day – I insist – we will have a problem. We would also like to denounce the shortcomings of the centres, I insist, particularly those of the case of Oleiros; such elementary things as, for example – Mr. President and Mrs. Rodríguez, do not worry that we have already registered interpelerations for substance – that in the Centre of Oleiros, in the laundry service, we also wash the clothing of the Sea House. We don't know why vigilant legislation is violated. Mr. President, you're a medical professional and, of course, workers manipulate those clothes without knowing if any of those people have any kind of disease that can infect them. We have shortages or severe problems of hydraulic bathtubs; I insist, of beds that are not electric. Finally, a service that, of course, has what are minimum conditions of dignity. And, on the other hand, we would, of course, like to think about it: the only photographs we see of Mrs Mato – not present – are in private centers. This is the interest that Mrs. Counselor has today gone away. Thank you very much, and I give you the signatures.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u148	Thank you, Mrs. Díaz. Let's resume the agenda with point 3. G.P. motion. Together, at the initiative of Da Carmen Iglesias Sueiro, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in relation to the management of the public system of social services
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u149	No amendments were tabled to this motion. For the defense of it you have the word of Mrs. Churches.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u150	Good afternoon again. Thank you very much, President. For those in particular and for this House in general, I would like to make it clear, in order not to be rebutted by policies of previous governments or to rule affixed to this nation – which is Galicia and not another – that this Member, not belonging to any party, if she feels close to or away from policies that are consistent or inconsistent with its ideology, is coined with the following abbreviations: attitude that clearly reflects the phrase: "Galice is not sold, government who governs". And you, ladies and gentlemen of the PP, are the ones who are today, after six years of government, selling and almost regulating the social services of this community to which I belong. Yes, ladies and gentlemen of the PP, you manipulate language by using it freely, and underestimating the intelligence of voters, euphemisms the glaze, half-truths and suspicious silences. And so they talk about "externalization," euphemism derived from an English word that has not yet been collected by the Royal Spanish Academy or, of course, by the Greek language, to linguistically make the galloping privatization that they are carrying out with public services in our society. Externalization translates into: process by which a company delegates a portion of its business process to an external company. He does not understand that it is applied to a public service such a "trade" term, since the purpose of a public service should not be business, but the common good. In addition, the semantic differences with the word privatization, which itself collects the dictionary and defines it as "legal-economic process through which business activities are transferred from the public sector to the private sector," it is clear that they are not differentiating. It is well known and is tired and sometimes pathetic to the core of policy makers to make language when they try to hide something that is not profitable electorally, or are afraid – and at best, and I hope, shame – to call things by their name; strategy whose most striking splendor we have when Cospedal, in the matter of Basel, pronounced these unrepeatable words: "simulation of disparate compensation." But there are more examples that seem to be drawn from a book of political topics. Thus, "temporary burden of solidarity", Montoro rising the IRPF in 2011, and we can never forget the "plastyline hills" of the plasma president of the State Government. There's a long list of such similarities in the mouth of our representatives, so the argument that "they don't privatize, they outsource," is invalid. As is not the fact that private management improves service, rather the opposite, makes it precarious to users, as well as the working conditions of workers in the sector, and in this, really, I'm not going to stop anymore. It is left to be explained and demonstrated by active and passive by opposition groups and the collectives affected by the deafness of which you make your gala. So I use today to ask them not that they change their policies, but their language, and that they have the decency to tell the citizens what their real intentions are when they are presented to the elections, so they know what to land, for example, if they decide to vote for them when they are denied a medicine that can cure a disease, until now incurable, and if they are denied the provision of this treatment for commercial and economic reasons. They speak clearly and say that their model is based on the capitalist system, it is supported by the private system, it is supported by the class difference, the defense of more archaic Catholic morals and fundamentalists. They say they defend privatization. It's an option I don't share, but I don't understand why you try to disguise your idea. You affirm and maintain that your policies are designed for the benefit of citizenship. It is shown, as I have already said – and you know it well – that the public management of social services improves and guarantees the quality and universality of social services. So it's time to end the current privatization policy, public-private collaboration, outsourcing, indirect management of public services – let's know that euphemism! – and exercise direct public management. You are responsible, and if not, you have the political decency to defend your private model; that model that consists and normalizes that medical treatments, social benefits or higher education are class privileges and not universal rights. And it's that you manipulate language to insurmountable quotas, and so they say very clear constitutional contents, such as the right to housing and health, which should not be interpreted literally, but as a statement of intentions or something like that. Citizenship hears words like: "mortization", which means disappearance of jobs; "externalization", which means privatization; "companion of solidarity", which means increased taxes; "referred compensation", which means cost of the corrupt silence; "credit line", which means the dreaded ransom, etc. I appeal to the decency of what they are showing in the electoral period to tell the truth and to call things on their behalf, that is, unemployment, privatization, poverty, precarious work, inequality, social exclusion and business and financial benefits. That's the result of your programs, that you make up and make up, or not? Be consistent and also courageous, you defend neo-capitalism, the political and economic system in which you support your real policies. They untie the burden of neoliberalism that hides under the skin of social democracy. So the votes they get, in addition to the legal ones, will be legitimate. This is the year of truth, of truth with capital letters. By the way, ladies, the old residence The Cornuval is still closed, I suppose for a short time. One of these days we'll see the official opening and the closing of the tape; we're at the time of opening the ladder. On the other hand, we are also waiting to see the legal and administrative formulations carried out in the privatization of the services of the O Cornuval residence, built with public money, which today is still closed. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u151	Thank you, Mrs Iglesias. Round of parliamentary groups. Parliamentary Group of the Galician Nationalist Block, Mrs. Adam.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u152	Thank you, President. This initiative has, although not a direct relationship, but quite indirectly, with which we have been defending just a few minutes ago: to question public services. It tells Mrs. Churches that they have to break out a little bit more of the People's Party. Let me tell you that I think they're already putting into practice, almost improbable, that we're going to say "stopping" or selling public services to private companies. Picking up a little bit of everything that has been in the past few years of the People's Party in Galicia and also in the state, there's a headline for me – and I'm going to use it, because it's not words that use the Nationalist Block Galego, but we pick them directly from the press – which I think explains the situation in which we are: "Builders cap the brick crisis with privatized public service contracts." And that's the reality: companies that did their business first with great works of different types of infrastructure. What are they doing now? We have the very clear example of Vigo's hospital, but not only do they build it, but they become later those who provide the services; even now those who provide the services of high-tech hospitals. Similarly, with regard to social services, they carry residences. I want to remember that the first privatization is the House of Bóveda, with all that it meant: money for construction and then money for the put in place, and then money that they charge through the top of that residence. Come on, what would be said is absolutely a round business for that company. We could set a lot of examples in the field of social services, such as children's schools, and even a little bit more. Just a month ago, the Labour and Wellness Council – our beloved Labour and Wellness Council, which is always able to surprise us – decided to use the concert method with children's schools, and not only privatize the children's schools in the public network of children's schools, as it is doing and as we still don't know what will happen with the Social Services Agency, but it has already decidedly begun a path that has never been done with children's schools. He has enough examples, of course, in Madrid and Valencia, which were the advance of that privatization of the smaller schools. We're talking about schools from 0 to 3. I want to remember that here, in addition, the curious paradox is that at one of the first councils of the board Mr. Feijóo, when he came out of the council, he literally said: the little ones' childhood schools finally pass through education. Six years later what happens is privatization. This is the reality we're in. We could also set examples on this – well, we've seen it before – of the elderly centres, home care services or many of the dependency services that are currently being privatized. A short time ago, in a meeting with workers and social workers, they commented on a reflection that is a bit at the base, at the bottom, of all this: slow but constantly privatizing the services – sanitary, educational –. Companies like Clece, for example, already have extra-school activities, something that wasn't planned recently; or summer camp activities; municipalities... the Greek administration is privatizing all those services. And the roadmap is clear: thinning the state as much as possible and giving these concessions to large groups – not cooperatives, not workers themselves and workers – who come from the construction company, the builders, and who are looking for new niches of business, as they themselves call it in their language. It's true that they do it at the expense of workers' and workers' wages; they also do it at the cost of the service they give and understand that it's not a public service but a business. And the situation they bring to us is: lower quality in the service, situations like before have been reported – in this case in the Public Service, but it is happening in the privatized services – of pseudoslavery of its workers and workers and business for a few, in this case large companies. That is why, of course, we are going to vote in favour of this initiative, also with its share of Carballin's Residence, which, curiously, has since 2010 been waiting to be opened for – as the People's Party wants – to privatize it in this case. Public money, public construction and business for friends – I suppose – or friends of the People's Party.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u153	Thank you, Mrs. Adam. Parliamentary Group of the Alternative Left Gallega, Mr Fajardo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u154	Good afternoon, everyone. From Alternative Galaga we are going to support the motion presented by the Joint Group because in this plenary we have talked about fundamental issues, and, if there is a very important problem in this country, it is the controlled flight of the public that the People's Party is making. We defend, as the motion does, that fundamental services be public, but also supplies. And that's why we have to report that since the People's Party you see the public as a business opportunity for your friends; those friends who later become patients that allow multimillionaire electoral campaigns. And, therefore, when there is a campaign of public defiance with the only objective of power tearing it down and selling it to the best place at the lowest possible price, what is to say is that the only enemies of the public that must be attacked are those who prevent the public from having enough money to maintain public services with dignity, for example, those 1,800 million euros in Switzerland, which is almost 20% of the budget of the Galician Union. With all that money taxing in this country, it would be possible to have more and better public services. So the problem is not public services; public services are the solution to many of the problems this country has, because they are the only ones that can guarantee cohesion, equality, effectiveness and impartiality. Because public services, in addition, are dispensed regardless of the sex of citizens, their economic capacity, their age, their social status; and therefore they are the guarantee of equity and equality in the system. In front of that, when we introduce market mechanisms into public services and when we introduce the benefit of private companies, this is the first objective of private companies: not to serve citizens, not to provide better services, but to get as much of the cake as possible. And, therefore, the benefits are the ultimate objective of these companies, and we believe that the only objective of a public service should be to meet the criteria of equity and quality. And here it has been very well explained how all services are privatised, from outsourcing to direct sales; but we are also concerned about this new model, that new way of calling privatization: public-private collaboration; this public-private collaboration that is done, first, because it does not compute in debt and therefore allows levels of indebtedness above what the European Union's great – so even says the Council of Auditors or the European Parliament itself – but that it has really very important problems and that they deny that reality that the People's Party has, the alternative that this formula is better for the public system. And that's not true, because this mechanism is not transparent. Parliament has no knowledge or authorization of the volume of commitment acquired. And, therefore, a mechanism like this, which is not transparent, prevents the ability to control the dismantling of private companies about this reality. But it's not cheaper, nor much less, and I'm going to set an example that we can all know and that I, who are from the district of Salnes, have quite clear. Through this mechanism an infrastructure such as the Salnes bus, which would have cost EUR 43 million, is going to fire at EUR 98 million, twice as much as it has to cost. But this mechanism also prevents the margin of manoeuvre of future governments, because it condemns to pay for many more years of the necessary infrastructure or services that could have been paid earlier, and therefore prevents new governments from having new ideas, with new political approaches, from having the ability to manage to articulate these ideas. How does it make sense, for example, that when we talk about this public-private cooperation, contracts are made until 2036 preventing future generations from making decisions about their future because this one is already mortgaged by governments who only think about public policy? What is happening, for example, now with AP-9, a highway that is paid for all and for all times already a multitude of times, but what happens that we have still found ourselves for many years – many years – with that difficulty by political decisions that are absolutely unacceptable? But in addition, private companies do not take any risks, and in this kind of contract, those clauses that penalise the lack of profits of companies and therefore require the recalculation of the cannons every year mean a much above what would cost those infrastructures or those services directly public. And we should take an example of what happened elsewhere. It's not to be welcomed that we're applying these mechanisms that all they do is destroy the public and leave us an empty country of attention to their own. That is why we defend and will support this proposal. Of course, we'll continue to denounce how the People's Party is a big problem, it's a deadly disease for the public; it's trying to end everything simply because there are still friends of these patients who want a piece of cake from our public services.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u155	Thank you, Mr. Fajardo. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u156	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon again, ladies and gentlemen. From the Socialist Parliamentary Group we will support this initiative presented by Mrs Iglesias, because, in addition to actually agreeing with part of the debate of Mrs Díaz's previous initiative, she also reminds us of the debate we had here last November, when we asked the Socialist Group about which policy was being carried out by the Government of Greece in relation to the management of public centres, and the next motion. I believe – and I believe – that Mrs. Iglesias, that you will have little luck, because then we in the motion ask only that the direct provision by the public administrations of social services should be prioritized, and you go a little further. Some technical issues that are at your initiative, we may not share them, but, in any case, philosophy is clear. So the People's Party voted against; I imagine we're going on the same path today. And, of course, it will bring to you as a debate the Social Services Act of 2008; a law that actually talks in its articulate about different ways of providing social services. But the People's Party always remains in the enunciation, never goes down to detail or to the articulate of this law; and always forgets, for example, that there are several articles devoted to promoting social initiative and to prioritising public and direct management by the Galician Board of Directors of all the Centres of the Labour and Welfare Council in this case. The reality is quite different. Since his rule, Mr. Feijóo only three centers are of public management, the ones that have been opened; the rest, all of them of private management. Except for the day centre of Sada, the center of Cerceda and the center of Muros, the other centers that have been opened since the rule of Mr. Feijóo are all, all, of private management. Private management, moreover, with a lack of efficiency, control by the Public Administration, which led us to state here last November – and that it has not been denied, of course, by the Government of Greece – that they have wasted nothing less than a million euros paying for squares that were not being occupied in those private management centres that Mr. Feijóo's Government has granted to different companies, not even to social-initiative entities. We're talking about private companies. Because legislation has today's priority and direct management speech, and it talks about prioritizing social initiative entities, and it talks about how competition procedures can be awarded – and in fact it must be done – those social initiative entities; however, the Government of Feijóo opts for private enterprise. The clearest example we have with the San Francisco Residence in Vigo is how it is intended to move all the people who have been there for more than 20 years to a private center, to Mos, owned by a real estate company, which is in the middle of the mountain, without just services, and with the disorder that this entails to the users. But, of course, the opening of this enlargement of the Cornuval center, of the Carballin, is also another example. When the centre is built from the public, enlargement is built with public resources; the public part of the centre in theory is going to continue to manage with public staff of the Labour and Welfare Council. It turns out they will live in what will eventually be the same center – because it will be the same center – a part of it managed from the public and the other part managed from the private. Totally absurd, unless what you finally want is to eliminate also the people who are managed from the public in that center and that everything is managed from the private. Of course, from the Socialist Parliamentary Group, we are committed by the priorityization of the public, and there is no excuse for directives or previous laws, because even now, if the Greek Government wanted to, it could fully prioritize with the Law of 2008 and with the recent directive last year, with the Community directive last year, public management or concerted management with social initiative entities in these centres; it does not because it cannot or because it is prevented by legislation, but because it does not want, because this is the political strategy of the People's Party, the roadmap which began with health and which follows with education and social services. That's your roadmap. From the Socialist Group, of course, we will always stand against that roadmap, and we will support all and how many initiatives come from the opposition groups that are involved in this issue, as well as we hope that the ones we bring from the Socialist Group will also be supported. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u157	Thank you, Mrs Gallego. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs Rodríguez Arias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u158	Thank you, Mr. President. The truth is that it is surprising, and very surprising, the lack of coherence of Members and Members of this House, not of you, Mrs Iglesias, that, according to you, it does not belong to any party, but to the other parties, who criticize an issue as fundamental as the Law on Social Services of Galicia, which they have drafted, which they have approved, which they have applied and which they continue to apply. But it turns out that if it's the People's Party that enforces a law approved by the two-party government, what you're doing is privatizing social services. And once again, I would like to clarify the difference between indirect management and privatization, Mrs. Churches. In indirect management the title is of the Board of Galicia, Mrs Iglesias; of the board of Galicia are all centers. The prices of these centers are public and regulated by the Galician board, and people's access to these centers also determines them by the Galician board. And in a private center, ownership is not public, ownership is a company. The prices of these centres are set by that company, and people's access to that service also regulates the company. So I think the differences between one thing and the other are very clear, which you want to see is the same, but it's not, because indirect management is not privatizing. Even though you say you know the Welsh regulations, I would like to remind you of article 29 of the Social Services Act, which makes it clear that social services can be provided directly or indirectly by public administrations. This is not to make up the language, Mrs Iglesias, this is a law, a Welsh law, which was passed in Parliament in Galicia in 2008. The legal framework has not changed; that this parliamentary group has knowledge, the legal framework has not changed. Autonomous communities and municipalities, regardless of their political colour, have used indirect management of social services for years. I know that you, since you don't belong to any political group, can't find that no council ruling by its supposed party uses indirect management. When the People's Party rules, it privatizes itself. When they use indirect management for the rest of the parties represented in this Parliament, then it's an intelligent management of public resources. I'm going to give you some examples of indirect management, of what you call privatization, because it's not a matter of political ideal. Children's schools, indirect management: Mugardos, Vigo, Bridges, Place, Teo. Home Help Service, indirect management: Teo, Ourense, Ferrol – who outsourced this service in 2009, when the Socialist Party ruled, and Left Unida. That's why we are asking ourselves, councils governed by the Socialist Party, by the Galician Nationalist Block, by the United Left, by Anova, who are outsourcing social services as fundamental as the children's schools or the home aid service: is the Socialist Party doing business with social services? Is Left Doing business with their friends through social services? are the Nationalist Block Galego and Anova using people to distribute the cake? Of course, it seems to me incoherence, and, of course, lacks responsibility and seriousness. In relation to the residence of Carballiño, Mrs Iglesias, it is of public ownership, of the Union of Galicia. It has two centres: one of them is in operation; and another, about to open, will open at the beginning of this year, as the adviser has announced in this Parliament, and it will be the title of the Board and its squares will be public. I would like to remind you, since you are accusing this government of destroying social services, which since 2009 has created more than 7,300 new public squares for this government; 167 million euros a year for the maintenance of all social squares. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, they come here to criticize a question that you have drafted, that you have approved, that you have applied and that you are still applying. And when the People's Party applies it, it's privatization, and if you apply it, you're very smart.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u159	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Arias. From the stage, if you're so kind. Author group of the motion, Mrs Iglesias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u160	Good afternoon. Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Marta Rodríguez, reminded me in her speech when Mrs. Mato, on the other day, in reply to this honourable Member's plea, said with force, as it says in the minutes: "What I am clear is that the Government of the Union has deprived nothing of anything." I'm going to deny this statement and with it I'm going to deny your speech too: you privatize. In March 2014, the Galician Association for the Defence of Public Health issued a report in which the privatisation strategy was clear: first, they cut budget and reduce staff; second, they despised the work of professionals; third, they gave private companies the task they were carrying out by public employees. I mean, public-sector centres run by private companies. President Núñez Feijóo, an expert privatiser – the terrible experience of the health foundations and the privatization of Mails appear in his curriculum – has pushed this line of action from the first day of his arrival to the residence of Monte Pío. The roadmap is clear: public health is fragmented into various areas of activity to proceed after privatization. In this way, they destroy jobs and decapitalize public centers. They do not guarantee greater quality in the provision, but they do, in all cases, cause an increase in the economic cost. It highlights the Galician Association for the Defence of Public Health for its negative impact on the future of the privatization of high technology, through another linguistic linkage – as much as you like – the legal figure of the so-called "technology partner", which allows the decision to be taken by the supplier companies themselves to where technology is implanted and how. This will increase the excessive and inadequate use of these resources, as you have already shown. It's also an important subtraction to hand over to private hands of teaching, information and evaluation of technology. The public system thus loses control of a fundamental area: research and knowledge, which allow us to build a future. And so, with linguistic strategies and cabriolas such as those that have just developed since that stage, the PP government is delivering to private management very large parcels of health centres, for example, ambulance services, Sergas communication, storage and supply of material – by the way, heavy – health equipment, clinical history and electronic recipe, the call centre – such as heavy service – and high technology; and now it is up to them, by the way, to sterilization services of all Galician health centers, a decision that involves a high risk and that is leaving out of work for about 200 professionals. More privatizations, because in 2009 – I don't have time – the Consortium has no alternative for the infrastructure built by the bipartite than its privatization, and it starts with about thirty centers a day. This is confirmed by Roberto Gómez, director of the Galego Consortium for Services of Equality and Welfare, who is headed by Beatriz Mato. It'll be if they privatize! They're private...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u161	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u162	...privatize and return to privatize. Too bad you and your accomplices don't have much left! And to all of this, the annex to Cornuval's senior income remains inoperative. I'm sure we see them one day in a newspaper, because it's election time, time to cut tapes and discover badges. Thank you very much. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u163	The next motion is from the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia on the action to be taken by the Council of Galicia before the Central Government to support the interests of the Greek universities. G.P. motion. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da María Concepción Burgo López, on the action to be carried out by the Junta de Galicia to the central government to support the interests of the universities
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u164	Two amendments were tabled to this motion: one from the People's Parliamentary Group and one from the Parliamentary Group on the Nationalist Block in Wales.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u165	Mr. Caamaño has the floor for the defense of the motion.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u166	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, you all know that one thing is intelligence and another is happening. And even though within this last one, of the occurrence, there are two modalities: the innocent occurrence, that funny, that at a certain moment everyone gets us out of certain worries, and the other, the dangerous occurrence – a much more complicated genre – which is the one that appears as if it had happened at random, as if it were unintentionally, but that clearly pursues a clear and definite objective, even if he is hiding himself. Well, the education policy of the Government of Spain since Rajoy's rule is just a dangerous occurrence. It is dangerous because it has a clear goal – even if they don't say it – to return to elitism, to end the democracy of knowledge – knowledge has to be reserved for a few – and to assemble and articulate a whole strategy that reaches that goal. And that's happening, because statements by those who have to address it – Minister Wert – suggest it every day. Luckily, the 1978 Constituent was quite intelligent enough to allow not only the Government of Spain to define Spain's educational policy, and it gave them competences both in universities and in public education, but also in private communities. That's why one would expect, in the face of some occurrences, the system to function and there was a reaction from autonomous communities and their educational authorities; a reaction that does not have to be severe, but sincerely uncomfortable, in some cases, of warning in others, that by that line it is not going well and that reality is different, and even silence. In the case of the Autonomous Community of Galicia, and particularly the current Government of the Galician Union, there were no concerns or inconveniences, rather the policy followed by Mr Wert. In front of her, what she did to the Council of Galicia was to make, in her literal sense, ethymological, an allure; i.e. to go out into the field to boast before the enemy forces of the abilities that you have. And why did he make a policy of alarm? I will remember a few things: when the Government of Spain and Mr. Wert negotiate LOXSE with the Episcopal Conference, the alarm we make here is to renew contracts with private centres that segregate on the basis of sex – if you don't want a cup of broth, take two –; when Mr. Wert said what to Spanishize Catalonia, the president of the board, Mr. Núñez Feijóo, went out to congratulate himself because the minister assumed the cordial bilingualism he had established in Galicia – really fantastic –; it was time to cut the scholarships, and the Galician board joined the scholarship reduction mechanism – no longer missing! – we the first ones –. By the way, even yesterday, the OECD – which I think is not a body suspected of being left-wing – told the Government of Spain that, please, it had re-increased the contents of the scholarships, because it was making traps. He said in the report he gave the most, but, of course, more, there were 338 euros less in each one he received. And what the OECD says is, give it more, but give it better scholarships, because it doesn't come out of the situation you're in. That's right, report it yesterday. Let's go, fees. It's true that here the Galician Union was a little smarter. To cover the stage he had, what he did was he didn't go up the rates on the first plate, but he did do it on the rest. He made a more discreet alarm, if I may, within Mr. Wert's systematic policy. And the same thing we can say about R+D+i. Thanks to that escalation, that permanent dismantling of university-related research, it's only been calculated that in the last two years, 45,000 boys and girls have been out of Spain's university system. Faced with that decision, the president of the board decided on a good day to grant the best researchers in Galicia, give them presents, with bags. I think he thought to himself: in turn it will not be just Minister Wert the one that happens, I also have my occurrences. And this is the situation that we have until the last one, which is what we are dealing with today: the decree of two plus three, or three plus two; it depends, as some see. By the way, this so-called decree of three plus two—questioned by the Council of State when it passed by its hands to be informed, questioned by the unions, by the university community—we will see afterwards and in what manner the principals of the CRUE, at least by Mr. Wert, who decided to continue ahead and not to threaten, or even amend it, of course—was interpreted very appropriately by the State Secretary of the Ministry of Education himself in the following way: he tried to clarify in a press round that the decree was not of three plus two, but of four minus one. First, they have some trouble not knowing how to add up, because, of course, it's either five or three. But the problem is, the state secretary was right. He's right. This is a decree of four minus one. In the end, it wants to be a cycle that is a mere extension of the three-year bachelor's degree with a generic knowledge, and that university qualification is not able to serve for incorporation into the labour market or responsibilities of a professional nature. That's why the decree itself keeps aside so-called regulated titrations, such as health professions and some others. It's about giving a generic varnish to the university and then getting everyone to fix their life, because one thing is having the title and the other thing is that that title serves for something more than doors inside one's house. That's why he was right when he called him four minus one; all right. Minister Wert – and right here in the plea that has been put forward – attempted to justify that position by the Government of Spain and the Council of Galicia by arguing the following arguments, substantially two: the first, that the most developed countries throughout Europe have a system of three plus two. I agree. The vast majority of European countries across Europe have a system of three plus two, but they haven't passed it in conditions like the ones that are currently in Spain. One thing is to aim for one goal and another is to forget the minimum responsibility to achieve that kind of goal. The same report, which is the observatory of the European University System, tells us the following: "The countries where university education in Europe is more expensive are Portugal" – by this order – "Netherlands, Italy, Ireland, the United Kingdom and the following, the sixth, Spain". So if we're going to compare ourselves to 33 of the same study, we're at the head of the most expensive. But there's a very important and significant data. When comparing in those countries which is the average cost of tuition in the university system and in the masters, you see that that same report – which can be consulted, is open to everyone – determines among the first twenty countries, among them Spain, that they all have substantially – those first twenty – an average master price similar to the average enrolment price, except Spain, where the average master price is 67% above the enrolment price. These things the Ministry needs to know; these things about Spain's educational reality must be in the knowledge of someone who wants to manage the public education of this country and the university system of this country. It seems that all of this is unknown and what it's about is to do a first long university cycle of mere knowledge and then a master's system, which we'll see. Of course, in the face of that situation, what did the rectors do all over Spain? Apply, in front of the occurrence, the intelligence, of course. The meeting of the CRUE determined – by one vote, by one vote; there was only one vote against a rector of a private university and four abstentions; the rest, unanimously, since the rectors cannot prevent the application of a legal norm, of a decree – was to use intelligence so that the decree could not be applied at least immediately. And so they decided they wouldn't apply to Spanish public universities until 2017. With which, we have a decree this year that won't apply until within two. When Wert found out about this, Minister Wert made an interesting statement too, which was that what the Rectors gathered at the CRUE were doing was an automoratory, which they were self-placing. No, Mr. Wert, they weren't doing that, they were simply expressing their will that they didn't want that decree, that they didn't want to see it in their universities; and therefore they can't derogate it because they don't have that capacity, what they do is put it in time waiting for another government from Spain to come and derogate it. That's intelligence in front of the occurrence, and that's what happened. That's why the principals who form part of Galicia's university system, the three principals of Galicia, voted in favour of that decision; they voted that decree does not apply now in Spain, it does not apply without an estimated calculation of time and prudence, and on that it will...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u167	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u168	... – Finished already, President – the amendment we tabled. I would like very briefly, since we are talking about issues of education and before we close this shift, to congratulate the new education adviser – who is not only a member of this plenary, here present, but also a member of the 4th Commission, of which I am also a part – to wait for him from the Socialist Parliamentary Group to have a lot of success in his management and, in addition, we expect socialists to do much better by listening to the universities, listening to this Parliament, listening to these citizens and, above all, not making false reports of foreign policies that are not the case. Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u169	Thank you, Mr. Caamaño. Parliamentary Group of the Galician Nationalist Block, Mr. Pombo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u170	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Good afternoon, Counselor. The Parliamentary Group of the BNG certainly also calls for support from the German Parliament to defend our university system against the reform of Minister Wert, which is totally detrimental to the interests of the public university in Greece, in the view of the Parliamentary Group of the BNG. You have today the councillor just appointed the opportunity to clarify whether he's going to be a low-profile advisor, as the media hoped, or whether he's really going to defend the interests of the university in Greece. Because we understand that Mr Wert intends to deepen the deterioration of the Greek university system by following the guidelines of the International Monetary Fund, which are nothing but destabilizing, destabilizing and disregulating the public university system in order to promote the privatization and the business of private university teaching. Mr. Caamaño, I have already told you that we are going to support the motion, because it is urgent for us to defend the interests of the Greek public university system in the face of the irresponsibility of a new reform of the Greek university system. The Block rejects this reform because it will cause several very negative effects; it will also, by the very nature, be denounced by the principals of the Greek university system: First, a serious confusion in the face of changes. When there is still no end to the process of reforming the structure of the Bologna titles, model four plus one, they want to put us already, without evaluation, without consensus, without debate, into another reform full of confusion; confusion which also discredits the public system. Secondly, this new reform involves less academic training for the student; from 240 credits, we increased to 180, down 25% of the quality. Totally, they will have, yes, a title of the humble classes, but it will be a paper wet title for the labour market. Another serious consequence: increased university training that the decree calls qualified. In fact, there will not be one, but two masters, as the rapporteur who preceded me in the use of the word, much more expensive, and if so far in Galicia there were not even 20% of those who could reach the master's office, from here to far less. So, new university model, we go back to college for the rich. Fourth. Expulsion of the university system of pupils of families with less resources. I repeat, we walk back to college for the rich. For us, of course, for the BNG, it's going to be a hard blow for public university education, so it's going to entail a new restructuring of the Greek university system. He has already warned Compostela's rector that this application will involve student clipping, which quantifys nothing more and nothing less than 4,000 students, only at the University of Compostela. This new cut will involve cutting professors, which will involve a very important decline in the quality of the education system and the university research system. And, of course, a new brutal cut of what is funding from the public university of Galicia; that is yes, business opportunity, of course, for the private company, which is the ultimate end that it pursues. The Parliamentary Group of the BNG has soon rejected this new reform of Mr Wert, as well as its rejection of the practice of the entire university community in Galicia and even the state. So, we want – I warn Mr. Caamaño – is to vote in favour of the motion, but we have tabled an amendment because we understand that there is a little improvement in that own motion, in order to request from the Ministry of Education the derogation of the current royal decree so that the Greek university system will have time to evaluate this year the current Bologna system, four plus one; secondly, to propose consensual alternatives to the university of Greece which guarantee the quality of teaching and research of the university itself; and finally, so that they will also have time and between the three universities of Wales will be able to homogenize first the university titles, to seek that the costs of the credits of degrees and masters be the same, to avoid making a burden the access to the university and, finally, to also seek the way to propose scholarships for that student to be able and to access the Greek university system.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u171	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u172	I'm done, president, waiting for this amendment from the BNG to be admitted. And nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u173	Thank you, Mr. Pombo. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs Piñeiro.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u174	Thank you very much, President. Allow me, ladies and gentlemen, that my first words should be to thank the People's Parliamentary Group for the magnificent work and the great work that Jesus Vázquez has carried out in front of this council over these six years. And to express the satisfaction that it brings us in the group that takes our colleague, the education spokesman, Román Rodríguez, with which we have shared so many hours of work over these six years. [[Applause]] I know, Counselor, that you're going to put this new task into the same effort and dedication as you've been putting over the years that we've been working on, which will benefit the Greek education system, our culture and, as otherwise, our language. [[Applause]] Mr. Pombo, be very calm that will defend very firmly the Greek university system too, I assure you. Mr. Caamaño, I will begin by analyzing the operative part of your motion, in which they urge to support the interests of universities and university students. Look, you don't doubt it for a single moment, it's a matter of priority and it's proven over these years since the Council of Education. So it was with Mr. Vázquez and so it will continue to be with Mr. Rodríguez. Being explicit, that seems to be what moves you too, from the Popular Parliamentary Group, we propose an amendment to your proposal; an amendment that picks up the spirit of the university model that we want: that you have dialogue with the principals, that you support the decisions that they make and that you manifest with respect to the autonomy of universities. Tell me, Mr. Caamaño, whether that is intelligence or occurrence. All this is always for the benefit and supporting the interests of students and the maximum stability for the Greek university system. For although we all seem to be looking for this goal, what really brings us to this debate, what we are dealing with, are two models, two ways of doing things: on the one hand, you are changing the position of the PSOE by 2006, the year in which I imposed a four-year model for degrees, thus separating from the European trend and setting an immediate deadline for the execution of your model – intelligence or occurrence, Mr. Caamaño? It was the Rectors who criticized the rush and the lack of justification for this measure; it was also the CRUE itself, to whom it stated in writing: "The proposal is a very relevant issue which deserves more detailed reflection and explanation." I think, Counselor, that they are still waiting for that explanation to come today. Tell me, too, Mr. Caamaño, whether that's intelligence or whether it's occurrence. Well, it seems that what must bother them is that it is the People's Party that is providing elements that were then despised: reflection, planning, flexibility, volunteering, explanations to universities and respect for their autonomy; in fact, the Counsellor will meet soon with the principals of the universities. The Greek universities have already positioned themselves in favour of the bottom of the decree, they only speak of the desirability of delaying the implementation of degrees to the 2017-2018 course, and they look at where they exercise their autonomy that they have just been granted by the Ministry and which they previously lacked; that autonomy of which you do not act merely as a mouthpiece, but in which they even intend to interfere with the presentation of a non-preventive bill in the month of December without even giving time to which universities or Union were pronounced through the corresponding channels. The new regulations open the door so voluntarily – I repeat, on a voluntary basis – universities can accommodate the new three-year model of degree plus two years of mastership. I would like to remind you and point out that Galicia has the most supportive and equitable model of access to university since our Autonomous Community has the lowest university rates throughout Spain, and it is thanks to the active policies of university prices applied by the current Government, with complementary scholarships so that no student is left for economic reasons. I think I remember that wasn't the model of the year 2009. Mr. Caamaño, intelligence or occurrence? Ladies and gentlemen, we propose an amendment which we believe to be intelligent, non-occurring; an amendment proposing dialogue with the principals, support for their decisions and respect for university autonomy. You will tell us, Mr. Caamaño. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u175	Thank you, Mrs. Piñeiro. Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u176	Good afternoon and good afternoon to the newly debuted advisor, who I hope will have more success and success than his predecessor, for the sake of the university and for the sake of the Greek education system. The decree of flexibility of the university system that we are dealing with, as has already been said here, relies on the position of practically the entire university community, with which, to me, the amendment of the People's Party seems incredible because, as I know, no one forbids the Government nor does anyone speak to the principals or forbids the Government to support the principals, but in addition, the proposal of the socialist motion says exactly what the principals want; I don't understand what an amendment comes to say the same way. The directors, the opposition, unions and students criticize this decree because they say it will enhance the studies. The generalization of masters and two-year-olds will be more likely to pay for having a title with the same prestige; it will entail the loss of teaching posts and will cause chaos in the system, as each centre can choose. It's not understood that someone is legislate and that, rather than legislate to regulate, to cohesive, legislate to say that everyone does whatever he wants, and here we can have, within the state, three-year-old, four-year-old, master's degree, without a master's degree, a revolutionary totum that obviously only seeks to benefit private universities. That's what's at the bottom of all this decree. The Rectors Conference estimates that the savings of the families stated by Wert would be around 150 million. I guess that's more, because the working families are no longer going to send their children to college. Between the lack of help and the intensification, of course, they will save all university costs, because the children of the workers and the workers will not be able to access university studies. It suggests a cut in the funding of up to 800 million administrations that will be lost. Students cover the rates between 15% and 20% and the rest of the administrations, and this measure breaks the principle of equality, is born without consensus and assumes a new cut covered by public spending by raising the student's university bill. As has been said, the Council of State has pointed out that this reform has a very short period of time and has called for a more coordinated adaptation, which would be logical. The Ministry of Education says that we will be able to match the neighbouring countries. And I say, how fast? I want the government one day to say: we're going to be equal in working days, we're going to be equal in pensions, we're going to be equal in wages, we're going to be equal in reconciliation of working life and family life. Why aren't they starting to match us around? No, they have to start matching us where no one asked for the match. This happens, in addition, while the help is being cut off. In 2012, in the aid criteria, they introduced academic criteria that previously were not, which made – and it is true – that the number of fellows had increased by 20%, but what goes down are the counties; they increased the scholarships, which only cover tuition, but lower all the rest of the help to students. The Rectors Conference takes time because it says that besides the university is saturated with changes that have not yet been evaluated, and that to take a new step we should evaluate what we already have and see what is needed to improve. But in addition, this change would make them live with two other structures, the old degrees and the current degrees, and now we have another, three, for the same title; that is, crazy; it would make the system unstable; it requires important normative changes that still do not exist and can affect teacher templates and increase rates. The duration of grade studies is not absolute in all European fields, it is not true. The three-year formula if it's true that most countries in our environment have it, but it's also true that many of them have it under review. It is not that everyone applauds, and yet other countries, as the United States may be, have a system of degrees similar to Spanish. But, in addition, we will have to talk about this impact when it comes to the inclusion of the different titles and the problems that may bear the role that each of them has to play. So, I'm going to give – I've finished my time – my support for this motion, and I would ask the People's Party that, if you want to rule, govern and, if you don't know how to govern or make decisions about the university system, let the laws propose them to the principals and students, and then you bring them here consensually, because yours are not good enough to bring forward our university system. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u177	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. Parliamentary Group of the Alternative Left Gallega, Mr Vázquez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u178	Good afternoon to all and to all. The truth is that today should be a day of joy, of celebration in this House for having rid ourselves of an education counselor like what left his office these days, precisely because from AGE we said he was one of the worst education advisors in the history of democracy, and to the facts I am sending myself. I say it should be a day of celebration, but it is not complete, because the truth is that Mr. Rodríguez as a spokesman of the People's Group of Education made an absolute policy of follow-up of the Counsellor, having a very poor view of the separation of powers, and, in any case, never defending the Greek education system as the voice of a matter such as education and a group, the majority, which supports the Government. In that sense, I hope, I would like to wait, a change in the direction of politics, but, if we turn to the facts, it will be difficult for that to happen. And when I get into the matter, I want to start by saying that I fully understand the meaning of the question and the motion put forward by the Socialist Group, what happens, is that I have the feeling that the opposition groups are continually finding ourselves in the backbone of the corrupt normative dynamics of the People's Party, and I explain myself: a normative dynamic based on structural changes in our social system, on making those changes by decree, without listening to anyone, without counting on the affected groups, without a technical basis, without a scientific basis, without dialogue, in an absolutely unilateral manner, and, once the fact has been completed, as it is the case that occupies us, that is, once we have published the decree, the opposition groups have come up to denounce the same thing that we said before they had been approved and finding out the consequences of the application of what that rule is going to be. This is – I repeat – the case that deals with us, because in July 2014 the University Rectors Conference, where all campuses are represented, also the Greeks... the spokeswoman, spokesperson for the People's Group, said that the Greek Rectors were in agreement with this decree, but at the Rectors Conference across the State are represented the Greek Rectors, and that conference made a report that is very clear, a report of 24 leaflets, where she clearly says the inconveniences and problems, one by one, that will carry out the implementation of this change by establishing three, plus two years of master, instead of the four plus one existing. The report is absolutely clear and stone-collar about the problems that will involve this new structure of titrations, but, despite that, even before the actual decree was passed, the People's Party in Galicia brought an initiative to the Education Commission where it had already driven those changes to take place. The report by the CRUE, through the Sectoral Academic Commission, makes it clear several questions: firstly, that the four-year model plus one master's model, established in 2007, is still in the process of implementation and is therefore under development, due to its assessment and is about to see exactly what the results of its application are. How can a system of titrations be changed when the previous model has not yet been implemented? I think it's an absolutely irresponsible improvisation. Secondly, the report by the CRUE is very clear when it says that establishing a system of qualifications where each university can choose to have titles of three or four years will add absolutely more instability and more confusion in a system where they will live with – let us not forget – the old five-year graduates, who still survive in the university system, the three-year degrees plus two Masters and the four-year degrees plus one Masters. I mean, all of a real galithies that, in addition, is a lame path, because if we changed the previous university system, where there were three-year diplomats and five-year graduates, now we recovered it through the facts through a model that in practice is also three plus two; let's say it looks like we wanted to evoke by devaluing the graduates with the old diplomats. He doesn't have any kind of explanation. Thirdly, and a question which from the point of view of the Left Gaga Alternative is worrying: it will entail a clear increase in costs for students, because in masters the prices reach up to 8,000 euros in any case; if they become two years, it will be EUR 16,000. So the families are going to see themselves more avocados than they already are in order to complete a university degree in the miracle if they can access it. We're going back to the American system, to the Americanization of the university degree...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u179	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u180	...where students, 71% of American students, owe loans to banks in order to pay their titles. Of course, that's not the model that stands for Alternative Left-Galga. We defend a model where equity and quality teaching are guaranteed, also in university education. And there is an element – and now finished, Mr President – that has to do with the scientific and pedagogical difficulties that will have for the university system to condense the contents of 240 credits – i.e. four-year-olds – in 180, which will obviously imply a devaluation of the quality of university education that the Government of Greece should not allow. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u181	Thank you very much, Mr Vázquez. Author group of the non-law proposition, Mr. Caamaño.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u182	Very briefly, President. Mrs. Piñeiro, if I ask for a coffee and you amend me and introduce me a decaffeinated, because some intelligence is in play. If what he gives me is a screen, of course, it's an occurrence. And the amendment presented by the People's Party is nothing more than that. Talk about what? If you're awake! The principals of the Greek university system already have an agreement, identical to that of the rest of the principals of Spain, which is that they will not implement the decree Wert until 2017. In two years we'll have a dead rule, a regulatory decree that they don't listen to. Only Mr. Wet remains contemplating the loneliness of his own occurrence. This is the reality, and you have had the opportunity, frankly, of not making a fuss about something that the university itself, not this parliamentary group, the Spanish university as a whole – I insist, 57 directors, except one, and four abstentions, and one of a private university – it has done, it is against itself. Something you'll have to say. And when you say volunteer, please read the report from the CRUE. As it is very well said there, one thing is to respect, when you have the public power, the management of a sector guaranteeing university autonomy, and another thing is to appeal to volunteering and university autonomy to deregulate and destruct the public university teaching system, because destructing is to allow on one side three years to have the same degree and that in another there has to be four plus one. That's destruction, and that's what Rectors tell you that it's an application of intelligence and common sense. And I was hoping... that's why our text was very light, it meant nothing more than from this Parliament, from this community, we added to what the Rectors have already said, not only from Galicia, I insist, the Rectors from all over Spain. That's why we don't ask for the express derogation from this decree, because we think it won't be published. Faced with this, instead of at least defending the reality of this country and the difficulties of its university system, they again make a fuss about the occurrence and prefer to present an inescapable amendment. How are we going to dialogue with what's already decided? That's a decision made at the CRUE, and I respect it, I think it's serious and older people the three principals who respond to the Greek university system, and I think they thought it, who dialogued before taking that position and I think they talked to the Ministry and the Galician board. I'm convinced that it was so, and if they reached that decision, it was because someone didn't answer them. How am I going to admit to you now an amendment where you ask me to speak again? It's an occurrence; I'm sorry, but you have no other explanation, it's an occurrence. Therefore, we, who had something very measured, what if we are going to do now, given their position, which is to remain at the height of who makes a policy, do not know very well so that education and university education in front of everyone – which was enough with silence and by saying that this Parliament will support what is already supported by the principals themselves – in view of this we will admit, in order to make clear the position of this group, the amendment of the Nationalist Galego block, in which it is expressly requested – although we believe that it will never be applied; at least until 2017 we are already confident that it will not be so – the derogation; that this Parliament and the Board will request – as it must be, because we have no competition for other things – at conferences and in the relevant places the derogation of that decree, that it will no longer be applied to Spain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u183	Thank you, Mr. Caamaño. G.P. motion. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da María Remedios Quintas Álvarez, undergoes the action to be taken by the Junta de Galicia to the central government to expand the protection of unemployment at its care level in the new situations of need which has created the deep and prolonged crisis
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u184	This motion was tabled by two amendments, one from the Parliamentary Group of the Glaga Alternative of the Left and one from the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block of Wales.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u185	For the defence of this motion, Mrs. Quintas has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u186	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. This motion is the result of an interpellation made in December. In December, the Socialist Group questioned the Labour Adviser about the actions being carried out by the Government of Greece, in particular the Labour Council, and we highlighted the unfortunate unemployment data for our community. Unfortunately, since December, Galicia has started 2015 with a new rise of unemployment. In the unemployment data recorded for January 2015, the number of unemployed in our community was raised by more than 7,000 job seekers. The negative trend in unemployment in Galicia is therefore confirmed. Galicia destroys 13,000 jobs in January, and it adds up to seven thousand peaks more unemployed. We understand that for the President of the Galician Union, for the Galician People's Party, for the Greek Government, this should be the most important problem. It is true that in the advertising and propaganda surrounding the Government of Greece, they say, when they talk to the media, that the problem of unemployment is the most important. As far as unemployment is concerned, it is not the most important problem for the People's Party or, of course, for Members of the People's Party who are in this House, I believe that unemployment is a very important problem, not because of the importance of itself, but because it affects people directly, families. I don't know if someone who is an institutional representative or whether someone who governs can afford luxury, when poverty in his community increases more and more, to remain impatient without carrying out any kind of action and with the greatest possible irresponsibility. So the new year began in our community just as we finished the previous one. Although both the President of the State and Mr Feijóo have recently said that we are already in recovery, the only thing we can see with objective data is that unemployment increases, both in the state and in Galicia, but in Galicia it increases more than in the Spanish State. In addition to these registered unemployment data, social security affiliations are down in Galicia about 13,153 people by January 2015, which leaves us with really chilling data. The disqualification in the Autonomous Community of Galicia with regard to employment is unstoppable, because it does not concern them or them. We're on one of the electoral evenings in which we see how it's talking about recovery, as if it's even talking about the biggest household appliances sales, but what we see is that in Galicia, the Greeks and the Greeks are increasingly suffering from unemployment, and those who don't suffer from it have to emigrate. And, as I said in December, on many occasions the young Greeks don't go abroad anymore to work in those jobs for those who have studied and are qualified, but they go back to work in those jobs that were already carried out by their parents in the 1950s and 1960s. The end of the Christmas campaign, when at one point the Counselor was so satisfied with the results we were going to have in December – it seems a lie that a counselor at that time was satisfied with a predictable, precarious job and that would be framed within a Christmas date – it shows us that this job, that increase, that reduction in unemployment, small, was fiction in December. Of all communities, Galicia is the fourth most unemployed who joins the unemployment lists in January. I believe that this data would be useful for Members of the People's Party to support this motion, which is the only thing that aims to improve the situation of the unemployed. It is urgent and essential that the People's Party commit itself to making a reversible situation which has been turning since 2009 into a chronic one. From the Socialist Group, we call on the Government of Greece to extend unemployment protection to the most vulnerable groups, we call for a specific employment plan for long-term unemployed people and we propose that unemployment protection should be perceived by all unemployed people who have been enrolled in public employment services for more than a year and also for those who have family responsibilities and meet the income requirements. The allowance, of course, will extend to women victims of gender-based violence and also to those persons with disabilities above 33%. The Socialists also call on the Government of Greece to address the social partners in order to implement a specific employment plan immediately. We demand an increase in the provision of public employment services, with a minimum of 200 specialist technicians. We remember how the Labour Council fired the Employment Guidance and Promotion Technicians to try again to privatize and put into the hands of their friends a necessary service at a critical time for the Greeks and the Greeks who are in a state of unemployment. This government, of course, does not work to solve the situation of thousands of people who are suffering from this scourge. I don't know how impatiently and boringly the honourable Members of the People's Party can assume that 600,000 people in Galicia are in poverty, and among them 120,000 minors, Counsellor of Education; 93,000 families have all their members unemployed, 55,000 homes are in severe poverty and 30,000 of them have no income. This government should apply decency and ethics, and sometimes, when it speaks of drama, the presence. I wouldn't be more respectful of the people out there who are having a very bad time. Mr. President of the Union, with the pride that characterizes him and possibly with the frivolity with which he governs this country, when he presented himself to the elections in 2009, with full knowledge of the Greek situation, said he would end with unemployment in 45 days. I believe that, with the actions we are doing, surely – and I hope not – these 45 days can be 45 years. I'm not going to keep repeating the unemployment figures that we all know, because I understand it must be the obligation of all of us, simply to urge this government to take into account that situation of misery. It's obscene to see...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u187	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u188	...as banks daily give their results accounts and are comparable to our Thursdays, who have to leave their homes, and our men and women, who are in a desperate situation. It's also obscene to see how a perfectly premeditated ideology is trying to achieve the disappearance of a middle class, the disappearance of the most basic rights of men and women in this country. It is regrettable to see how the Labour Council, which is responsible – it should be responsible – for the most important actions in this regard, every day, every year, lowers budgets. And while, a gentleman, such a Gerard Crespo, publicly threatens them...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u189	Please finish, Mrs. Quintas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u190	... "I'm not going to tell you everything I know about the work advisor, president da Xunta and the high positions of the PP." Unfortunately, the only action in employment and work that the People's Party has done in Galicia...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u191	Finish it, Mrs. Quintas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u192	...is diverting funds into irregular funding and for a few friends – among them Mr. Gerardo Crespo – to make themselves...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u193	Thank you very much, Mrs. Quintas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u194	...and now you're being extorted. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u195	Intervention of parliamentary groups. [[Pause.]] Nationalist Block Galego. You have the floor to Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u196	Good afternoon. As much as they repeat over and over again the speech that things are going well, Galicia is not doing well, and thousands of Greeks and Greeks are not doing well. And, far from the official speech, Galicia does not converge, but Gallica diverges, and the drama of unemployment continues to be a case by case drama for our country. We are faced with an incessant extension of poverty. More and more social inequalities: rich richest and poorer, and wealth accumulated in less and less hands. And this strategy of accumulation of capital in less and less hands is not the fruit of the economic environment or the prolongation of the crisis, but it is the fruit of a structural decision made by those who benefit from the situation, by those who have the incomes of power, who then find themselves with complicit governments, like the Government of Greece, who do nothing to protect their people from this situation. Under the excuse of the crisis, legal instruments have been provided to the capital to reduce labour rights, wages and protection for the unemployed; legal instruments that allow a direct attack on labour relations and wages. And the drama of unemployment in Galicia, far from improving, persists stubbornly. There are 259.002 registered unemployment dramas, which – as we all know – do not correspond to reality because there are many more people who are not registered but who are in a state of unemployment. And it's not just that we have an insatiable number of unemployed people, above 20%, but that people who are unemployed are getting more and more in that situation, and more and more people don't charge any remuneration at all. The number of people who don't charge any benefits in Galicia is chilling: they're more people who have no kind of benefit than those who do have it in our country. And if there are a number of 259,000 people registered in the lists of placement services, they give 128,998 or 129,000 people who charge some kind of benefit; 57,000 and I peak contribution benefits, 58,000 subsidies and 13,000 and some active incomes of integration; which, from there to 259,000, are already more people who do not charge any kind of benefit. The number of people is already above those 130,000 people, and in addition to this, you have to add the disgrace of the Spanish Government – I insist – with the complicity of the Greek Government, which increasingly spends less and less resources to pay to the unemployed. If by the beginning of 2014 the coverage was around 60% at the end of 2014 that coverage has already dropped almost five points, now it's at 55.6%. We have to take into account what I was saying before, which is already less people who charge a contribution, and we would be talking about EUR 780, no million, of course. But there's already a very important part of what they charge is an active income for integration. I mean, we're talking about revenues of around 400 euros. So we find ourselves in the face of a dramatic situation for many people, where Galicia loses population, Galicia loses active people and Galicia loses people affiliated with Social Security. We've been below, we've barely surpassed the 900,000 people affiliated with Social Security, of which nearly 250,000 have been lost since Feijóo and the People's Party returned to Galicia. For these reasons, the BNG will support this initiative presented by the Socialist Party, to which we are presenting a series of amendments with the aim of going to the bottom, to the source, of this unemployment situation, which is none other than labour reforms. With which we tabled an amendment calling for the elimination of different labour reforms, the elimination of Decree Law 20/2012...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u197	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u198	...that was a knife for the working class. An amendment that eliminates the subject of coverage only for people...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u199	Finish it, Mrs. Prado, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u200	...–Finished, Madam President—with family burdens, because we believe that there are many people who, without family burdens, are also in a very precarious situation. And that the 15% limit to charge that unemployment benefit is also eliminated.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u201	Thank you very much, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u202	Waiting for acceptance
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u203	It's written. Thank you very much. Parliamentary Group of the Left Galician Alternative. Mr. Fajardo Recoso has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u204	Good afternoon, everyone. Only those who exercise sadism as a method of political action can say things like those they said in the press these days. Bañez said he urged citizens to be glad; and Mr. Alonso, of the People's Party, to start smiling now. I don't know if they were telling the refugees, those 250 and so many thousand people who can't afford their light and energy in Galicia, or those unemployed people who are now going to be denied the right to that unemployment benefit. These days we cover three years of work reform. That labour reform reached the goal of the People's Party. And the goal was nothing more than unemployment and worse wages, to have that army of unemployed people who pull below the labor rights of those who do have jobs. Since the adoption of the labour reform, in Galicia we have 31,200 employees less, and of those we have 34,400 contracts less indefinite. Since the adoption of labour reform, the average wage in Galicia has fallen to EUR 2,050, and only 48,5% of the unemployed in that country earn some kind of benefit, is the culmination of the scam. You not only expelled the workers from their jobs, but also condemned them not to have any kind of benefit and, therefore, not to be able to keep their families. It's a sadistic policy against the majority of society that only seeks to spread suffering, so that with that doctrine of shock and fear they will accept things that otherwise would not be accepted. You're so sadistic in your policies that they put a plan on the table so they say they're going to give those who don't have them, which costs 60 million euros this government, but it turns out they're not telling the truth. These new benefits for unemployed people without the right to leave the unemployed without payment. Only in 2014 did the People's Party reduce by 228 million the cost of unemployment benefits in Galicia, 228 million euros that were stolen from our unemployed pockets. I said it and said it many times: earlier the thefts were done at the cashier's door, now they are made from the ministers' councils. Because it's a robbery that a person who loses his job now has more difficulty accessing the unemployment benefit. And it's no coincidence that you cut that expense, because you've made two decisions that are absolutely aberrant about social justice. First of all, they reduced the rates of unemployment benefits. Right now, where people don't have economic capacity, where there's a lot of unemployment, you've decided that from the sixth month the unemployed cover less for their benefit than they paid before. You've been able to spend 9,000 million of all and all in saving Novagalicia Bank, but they're still waving and waving the working class of this country. If this was little, you made a decision that is also a criminal decision for us, and it is the decision to make it difficult for thousands of workers in this country to have access to the benefit, the unemployment allowance, what they called family help before. Because you decided that, in order to calculate the income that eliminates the possibility of charging this benefit, if all the members of the family unit were calculated, all those who lived in a housing. What does that mean? That at a time of regrouping, where many people have to live with their parents again because they have no economic capacity to live alone, even families with children and children have to live with their grandparents, you, to pay them that benefit, they say to take into account the total income of the whole family. What is that, if it's not an obscene policy and an absolutely unacceptable attitude? That is why we believe that this proposal must be supported, and I hope you do not have the sadism to say that you do not support this proposal today either. Otherwise, you'll be like this unworthy character who said that they had to take away that unemployment benefit from families because sometimes the EUR 400 went to people living with their parents and they didn't need it. As if 400 euros were a lot...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u205	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u206	...as if that was a great way out for the families. You attack the ones below, but you prevent them from making progress from above. And of course there's reindeer transmission. Last year, thanks to the policies of the People's Party, there's 27% of the poor population in the state as a whole. What a 27% chance of increasing the benefit of this country's bank! What do you mean? That you take money from the poor to hand it over to the banks and the electricians. They are unworthy of being in the government of this country and the state as a whole.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u207	Finish it, Mr. Fajardo. Mr. Fajardo, I don't think I'm going to repeat to you anything I'm going to take from you. You are aware that... precisely, as you are aware, the withdrawal – as it cannot be – will be accompanied by a call to order. [[Mr. Fajardo Recouso pronounces words that are not perceived.]] We continue. Joint Group. Mrs. Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u208	Social protection policies play a decisive role in the realization of human rights to social security for all, in reducing poverty and inequality, supporting inclusive growth and promoting domestic demand. Lack of access to social protection is a major obstacle to economic and social development. Inadequate coverage, or lack of social protection coverage, is associated with high and persistent levels of poverty and economic insecurity, increasing levels of inequality, insufficient investments in human capital and human capacities, and a weak aggregate demand in times of recession and slow growth. Existing social protection policies do not adequately address the security needs of children's and families' incomes. Social protection also plays a key role in reducing the economic vulnerability of families. There are specific programmes in the State of family and child benefits in the current legislation, but they only include small population groups, and their accounts are so demanding that they obviously do not solve the problem. Insufficient investment in children endangers their rights and their future; and with their future, the development of countries in which they live. I mean, the poverty our children are suffering is condemning them to an uncertain, poor future, and living in an undeveloped country. The article "The capacity of social policies to combat the poverty of new social groups at risk of exclusion" from the University of Gothenburg highlights: Of all political interventions, which are of particular importance interventions related to the labour market. Countries with low-quality labour markets, such as Spain, have high levels of poverty. And vice versa, in countries with high-quality labour markets, that is, with a high wage level and high social protection, poverty is much lower. Active employment policies have a major impact on poverty prevention. They have even more importance in facilitating the integration of women's labour market, a point of great importance in predicting women's poverty, the great punishment for poverty in our country. As part of the measures facilitating integration into the labour market, this work of the University of Gothenburg especially highlights measures that do not allow low wages. A country with low wages is doomed to be an eternally poor country. The lowest minimum wage, the greatest poverty. And vice versa, the greater capacity of union influence, the less poverty. And here they also have a lot to do with the policies of the People's Repression Party and their anti-union policies. Universal transfers of public funds have less impact on reducing relative poverty than improving the wages of workers. Unemployment insurance is effective to avoid poverty for a given time, especially in people over 55 years of age. Social security programmes are essential for pensioners to live. The countries that have less adult and child poverty are the ones that facilitate occupation, including the paid occupation they carry out...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u209	It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u210	...mostly women in their homes, which here is still free and unconsidered. On the other hand, the University of Carlos III also conducts a study where it says that generosity, that is to say, what they achieve financially benefits, does not influence people not want to return to the world of work, that is a lie! According to this study by Carlos III University, what really discourages the return to work is the long periods of unemployment, and much more so when, as in our country, they build up one over another. I am not going to talk about the tremendous situation, which has already been said, but the policies that support women's integration into work, the decent wages, and that, of course, they are not based on a labour reform that has only served to destroy employment and business fabric, are moving much faster than the Spanish State. Therefore, our support, as it cannot be otherwise, for this initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u211	Thank you very much, Mrs. Martínez. People's Group. Mr. Tellado Filgueira.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u212	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, everyone. Ladies and gentlemen, the truth is to speak of friends by the Socialist Party...! I'm sorry to remind you that Gerardo Crespo was a friend of Ricardo Varela. Don't you remember those emails you sent? Ricardo Varela. [[Applause]] And to speak precisely of these things today, when in Andalusia today 16 people were arrested with fraud in training, or when today the number of defendants is raised, I don't know, up to 265... Of course, I don't think you live in reality. The truth is that we are surprised by this initiative presented by the Socialist Party, which is the father of this serious economic crisis that has affected Spain for six years. It surprises this false concern of the unemployed because, in their last government, socialists have put more than 3 million people to death; you were the biggest job destroyers in this country. They took the country with an 8-point unemployment rate and left the country with a 21-point unemployment rate. I mean, they almost multiply by three the unemployment rate in Spain. It's surprising that you stopped these people, and while you were talking about green shoots in Spain. And now that sensitivity to the unemployed is enough, just now that they don't rule, that's reality. It is surprising that this concern comes at this time, precisely now, when the trend in the labour market is quite different. I have to tell you, Mrs. Quintas, that today in Spain there are 288,000 unemployed less than a year ago, 6 percent less than a year ago. That in January 2015 400,000 more members of Social Security than a year ago were registered. That in January 2015 there are 93,000 young people less enrolled in unemployment in Spain than a year ago. And that between 2014 and 2015 in Spain a million jobs will be created, as much as it bothers the Socialist Party. That's why we're surprised at this concern that you're right now, because, when you were ruling in Galicia, 51,000 jobs were destroyed in your last year. In our last year, 22,000 jobs were created. I mean, you destroy jobs, we create jobs. It is true that much remains to be done, because the number of unemployed remains very high. But you will have to recognize with me that in the trend of job destruction there is a turning point, which is the exit of the socialists of the Government of Spain. That this year 2015 GDP will grow by 2 % and in the year that ended it will grow by 1,3 %. So we're in a very different situation. Mrs. Quintas, what makes us different from you is that the unemployed are a priority for us, and for the PSOE just an excuse to make opposition, that's reality. Honestly, we are surprised by his initiative, which has a record date on December 19, when just four days before the Government of Spain signed a social dialogue agreement with the unions Workers' Committees, UGT, CEO and Cepyme. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] An agreement to put in place an extraordinary employment activation plan that will benefit 450,000 unemployed people who don't understand what you laugh about right now. [[Murmurs.]] A plan to which the Government of Spain will allocate 1.2 billion euros. A plan to support the coverage of the minimum income of the unemployed with the impulse to labour market integration policies. An agreement in the social dialogue that was signed in Spain between the Government of Spain, the unions and the employer, which also had continuity in Galicia between the Government of Galicia and the social agents of Galicia, with that extension of the Youth Guarantee Programme and with the extension of the coverage of this extraordinary employment activation programme. [[Applause]] You doubt our job bet. But, Mrs. Quintas, we approved the largest public job offer in Galicia a few days ago, with the coverage of 1,163 new squares: 446 in education, 373 in general administration and 344 in health care. You question our commitment to the job placement of the unemployed when a few days ago, in the Official Journal of Galicia, we published a new call for employment workers with 10 million euros for the biennium 2015-2016. You question our commitment to social inclusion when we multiply the cost by two...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u213	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u214	...in the income of Galician social integration. You, who were so progressive, were spending 22 million euros, and by 2015 almost 48 million euros will be allocated. And we link labour inclusion policy with risk support in an order to recruit risk-perceptors. In 2014 623 Risga perceivers benefited, and this year we doubled the investment to double the beneficiaries. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, the Government of the People's Party – they are left with the figure – has dedicated since the arrival of Mariano Rajoy to the Government, in which it is legislated, more than 100,000 million euros in benefits...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u215	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u216	...in unemployment benefits. You will understand that we do not allow the Socialist Party to demagogy on this issue, and less the party that has put us in this crisis...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u217	Thank you very much, Mr. Tellado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u218	... since now we're starting to leave. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u219	Thank you very much. Mrs. Quintas, reply. Socialist Group. Give Mrs. Quintas a voice, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u220	Thank you, Madam President. To thank the AGE, BNG and the Joint Group for supporting this motion. Just tell the leaders of the People's Party that there is a reality in Galicia: two out of three unemployed people do not receive unemployment coverage. Well, I understand that the People's Party may be very proud of your data. Sometimes you think that, as you get less coverage, as there are more people going, like Social Security in terms of unemployment benefits and subsidies, you don't know, sometimes you think that's even the ideological goal, what the People's Party wanted to get: saving money in social security; and that's doing it playing with people's misery. I will not reply to the spokesperson of the People's Party, just a little story: Gürtel, Fabra, Correa, mustaches, Pablo Crespo, Bárcenas, Dorado, Camps, Jaume Matas, Blessa, Mouse, etc. Ministers, whatever they want. Look, my position and the position of my party... my position is that what makes her pay, wherever she is. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Don't come here to teach no one, no one! [[Murmurs.]] What's taking care of us are the unemployed. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] You can follow, the People's Party can follow, with the same flap... I forgot Mr. Dorado and Mr. Pablo Crespo, who... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u221	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u222	Pachi Lucas is not charged, so I didn't name him. [[Laughter]] Anyway, look, the reality is that you... I don't doubt that the Government of Galicia... I understand, because I can't doubt that an institutional representative, that a government, don't worry about the tears that Galicia is suffering. I can't understand you don't worry. So, if I think you're worried. But look, Mr. Tellado, I can give the 2009 data of 2008, of 2013, even 1800, but what happens is that the People's Party in Galicia has been ruling for six years and the reality is that the number of unemployed is increasing...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u223	Mrs. Quintas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u224	...and the social security affiliates decrease. Look, since the People's Party has so many influences, that I'm talking to the Institute, that I'm talking to the competent bodies, that they seem to give the data confused. Reality and numbers are capricious, and reality and numbers say what they say. So you can come here to say everything you want. The data is above the table, the data is objective and the data goes...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u225	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u226	...that since 2009 Galicia has worsened. It's more, you're talking about everything going well, it's all smiles, we're taking off and we're going to Jupiter...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u227	Mrs. Quintas, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u228	...from 2014 to 2015 – finished, Mr. President, one minute – worsened even more. So that's the reality. And I see what the commitment of the People's Party is: frivolity...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u229	Thank you very much, Mrs. Quintas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u230	...and remembering the past. But the present doesn't face it and they're leaving us without a future, gentlemen of the People's Party. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u231	Mr. Quintas, what about the amendments? None. [[Mrs. Quintas speaks words which are not perceived.]] Motions vote
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u232	Well, let's move on to the motion vote. We started by voting on the first motion, the Joint Parliamentary Group, at the initiative of Mrs Iglesias, to which no amendments have been tabled. G.P.'s motion to vote. Together, at the initiative of Da Carmen Iglesias Sueiro, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in relation to the management of the public system of social services. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 29; against, 40 votes in favour. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u233	We voted for the motion of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, to which two amendments were tabled, which I believe you said you accepted the amendment of the Nationalist Block of Galicia and rejected the amendment of the People's Group, right, Mr. Caamaño? So we voted for the initiative with the amendment of the Galician Nationalist Block. Text vote on the motion of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da María Concepción Burgo López, on the action to be carried out by the Junta de Galicia to the central government to support the interests of the Greek universities. The vote resulted in the following: votes in favour, 29; against, 40 votes in favour. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u234	Finally, we voted on the motion by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, on the initiative of Mrs Quintas Álvarez, who said that she did not accept any of the two amendments tabled. G.P. Motion vote. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da María Remedios Quintas Álvarez, on the action to be taken by the Junta de Galicia to the central government to expand the protection of unemployment at its care level in the new situations of need that created a deep and prolonged crisis. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 29; against, 40 votes in favour. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected. Institutional declaration
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u235	Before I continue with the development of the agenda, I inform your lordships that the groups have made me come up with an institutional statement to which I am going to read. "Hassanna Aalia, born in El Aaiún in 1988 and a 17-year-old activist, participated in 2010, along with approximately 20,000 Saharans, in Gdeim Izik, the most important peaceful protest camp in Western Sahara history, dismantled by the Moroccan army with extreme violence on 8 November 2010. On February 17, 2013, the Rabat Military Court rendered a judgment against 25 Saharan civilians accused of organizing Gdeim Izik, the dignity camp. Among them, Hassana Aalia, who remains in this community and is tried in rebellion and condemned to life imprisonment. Multiple agencies at the international level have publicly denounced, and unanimously, that the procedure followed in the trial of this military court did not comply with the minimum guarantees to consider it a fair trial, because the statements of the accused persons would appear to be under torture, in addition to being unable to present all the evidence they demanded to prove their innocence and to find false police records. Among the bodies that acted as observers in the trial were the International Association for Observers and Observers for Human Rights, Amnesty International, Human Rights Watch, MEPs and Members, the Western Sahara Foundation, the European Parliament's Committee on Foreign Affairs, as well as various political trainings. Therefore, Hassanna would meet the requirements laid down to obtain the status of the refugee. However, the resolution notified to Hassanna, supporting and without questioning the judgment of the Rabat Military Court, decides to deny it this right set out in Law 12/2009, which establishes and regulates the right to asylum in the Spanish State. For all the above mentioned, the Minister of the Interior is urged to reconsider Hassana Aalia's request for political asylum, accepting his request for international protection under Law 12/2009, since, if he returns to his country, he will be severely punished by the Moroccan authorities and will never again be released from prison where he lives. And that's because he's a politically active person, internationally recognized, who peacefully fights for the right of self-determination of the Saharawi people.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u236	Well, once this reading of the institutional statement was made, we continued on the agenda at point 4 of non-legislative proposals. Non-legislative proposal by the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in relation to the situation of public health in Ourense
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u237	This proposal was presented with an amendment by the Parliamentary Group on the Galician Nationalist Block at the initiative of Mrs Paz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u238	To formulate the non-law proposal, Mrs Acuña do Campo, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u239	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies. Ourrensian health, as is the case with the entire public health system, with the management it's doing of this nefarism such as Feijóo-Mosquera, is experiencing very difficult times. On the other hand, President Feijóo has decided that an illustrious Member of this House, who until this morning was also the Education and Culture Adviser, is the candidate of the People's Party to the Mayor of Ourense; by the way, it seems to be against the wishes of Mr Vázquez. So since the PSdEG-PSOE we are quick to propose an initiative that, although registered a year ago, is absolutely topical, convinced that, if the candidate feels any interest in the city that aims to manage, he will have to vote for it. In it we request the firm commitment of the Board to the plan director of the Orensan Hospital Complex. The firm commitment to the city's primary care, recovering the Vincentian Health Center, which, although committed by Mr. Feijóo, seems to have evaluated. And we also request on this initiative an immediate correction of the health management that is being done in Ourense and that is causing an alarming deterioration of public health, not only in the city of Ourense, but in the whole province. Of course, if -- as usual -- emergencies are the thermometer of the system, oransian health for six years now has a lot of fever, as evidenced by the fact that this service has collapsed. I'm going to show you a headline to your lordships that talks about the blockade in the emergency hospital complex, and where you appreciate the camels in the hall. If we open the first sheet, "The CHOU emergencies are collapsing with dozens of sick people in the corridors." This newspaper, ladies and gentlemen, is dated last July, where there was no flu, but yet it was just as collapsing as it is at present. But what's the reason for Mr. Feijó to have the gold health in the ICU? For it is very easy: that in the cuts that characterize their health policy we must add to Ourense the evil management that Mrs. Núñez is doing, her cousin. Snippets into infrastructures. He did it in Ourense not only did not make new sanitary infrastructures, but even allowed himself to remove a hospital, to close Toen. By the way, it is now the object of continuous devastation and vandalism, while Mrs. Núñez looks elsewhere. All right is to close the socio-sanitary beds of Piñor Hospital, in a province of the oldest in Galicia, and also done – as always – with lies and deceptions, for I still remember the People's Party of Ourense, and the vocalist of the People's Party in this House, promising and ensuring that there was still a mattress in Piñor Hospital to avoid these collapses. Every day, Mr. Santalices, and the mattress plant is always closed. And what about the commitments to the new infrastructures, the CHOU's master plan, which had already been assessed in 2009 and which, however, six years later, are now just beginning the works. Six years, besides lies, promises, false announcements. Six years of models, displays on professional computers just when I started the electoral campaign of autonomics and expourense ads that cost the oransansans and the orensas more than 12,000 euros. By the way, much more than that year 2012 – an election year – was budgeted for the comarcas hospitals, both from the boat and from Verín. We will see, ladies and gentlemen, as it ends, because we must not forget that it is reported in the courts and with funding in the air, because European money is already out of date. Not to mention the fearsome casualties in the adjudications or those 14 million that we still don't know who's going to bring. But what takes the palm in the matter of deception is, no doubt, the construction of the two health centers committed to the city for more than six years. Feijóo has behaved in Ourense, on that issue of health centres, as a true trileiro. First I was going to do the two health centers. Then the Couto didn't, the Vinteun did. As the months went by, it turned out that it was already the 21st century and not the Couto. The truth is we're in 2015 and you didn't do either. Human resources cuts. Very grave, ladies and gentlemen. Only with forced retirements do unions speak, denounce, that Ourense now has 70 professionals of medicine less; 7 minus only in the service of Internal Medicine – by the way, the speciality most directly related to aging and chronicity – and 19 less places in the health centers of Ourense province precisely because of forced retirements. Almost nothing, gentlemen! That's why I ask the flaming candidate to support this initiative that tries to put a stop to all that attack. It also cuts in the material that are causing serious difficulties in operation, and not in extraordinary or very sophisticated things, but precisely in the most necessary, day by day. I'm talking about lingerie, pillows, sheets, towels, but also about masks to nebulize, reagents to do tests and some medications, as has happened this weekend in emergencies, where Actocortina was lacking, that healthcare professionals will know – as I do – that it is an essential drug in any emergency service. And at all these cuts we have to add a disastrous management, which is dismantling and suppressing things in Ourense to take them somewhere else. The pediatric surgery, remember, ladies and gentlemen, was the subject of many debates. Well, let's just keep going. The children and the children of Ourense, and the province of Ourense, who were taken by the citadels. I can't forget that at any time a child who lives in Lardeira, in the Trevinca Serra, can have a testicular twist and will have to operate on Vigo; that's right, after having passed through the Barco Hospital, the Comarcal Hospital, and more through the Ourense Hospital, the provincial hospital. But now he's also involved in the investigation. The investigator who used to be in Ourense took him to the Vigo Research Institute. Besides, ladies and gentlemen, this year the CHOU has no grade students. By the way, the only center that doesn't have. So we're very afraid that Feijóo and his cousin have decided to remove from this hospital his condition as a university student that he so hard to get. Finally, management of pea applied by Mrs Núñez, which is going to dismantle the public for it by privatizing everything: maintenance, energy supply, technology, innovation. As the emergencies go from collapse to collapse, she dedicates herself to sharing the transfers that she emergencyizes between her husband and her friends, and she's also gradually colonizing the service heads of Ourense. Because, ladies and gentlemen, you have to go look for the professionals to take care of the bosses outside, for the ones in Ourense and the ones in the center themselves know you can't handle it. Mrs. Núñez and Mr. Feijóo dedicated to selling us the so-called hospital of the future while sinking the present hospital.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u240	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u241	And what about the last occurrence that the Limitia has in arms! As the services of CHOU, Internal Medicine and Neurology are very saturated, instead of restoring the professionals who took them out, what he did was take them sick, take all the patients from the Limia to the Hospital de Verín. Ladies and gentlemen, we hope to count on the support of the groups and, of course, of the flaming candidate of the People's Party to the Mayor, who will have the opportunity to show us whether he has more orensanity than he seems to have already lost Mr Feijóo. You'll have a chance to prove that you prefer to work for Ourense, and also for one of the principal and most basic rights of neighbors and neighbors that you're going to manage, that is, the right to health care, that you continue to dismantle the Council of Education and Culture as you were doing so far. At the moment, nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u242	Thank you very much. Intervention of parliamentary groups. For the Galician Nationalist Block, Mrs. Paz Franco has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u243	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. To announce that the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group will vote favourably for this initiative presented by the Socialist Group, regardless of whether they accept the amendment formulated by the Galician Nationalist Block and that it was intended to make a statement and to provide a series of measures that we believe is urgent in its application to address the critical situation of health in the whole of the Ourense area. No doubt, ladies and gentlemen, this is one of the most worrying elements of citizenship. As every day, every step, every month that passes, there is even more deterioration in the provision and health care that people receive. In addition to the cuts, of those we have talked about here on many occasions, motivated by the non-replacement of troops in such sensitive areas as, for example, the early care of children who need treatment from very young ages. For many, many months, no coverage is given to the children's psychiatry square, and the same is true in the field of childhood neurology. I say that in addition to those cases of specific services that are being reported on the part of the platform, the set of social organizations and individuals on an individual basis who suffer from these cuts, mention must be made of the consequences that are causing permanent cuts in the health care of Ourense in terms of human resources and also of material means that are being produced by the Government of the United States of Galicia. As far as health infrastructures are concerned, we would like to see that someday the People's Party, the Government of Galician Union, is able to leave this gallery or deliver some document where we could be sure that health centres, for example, of those spoken in that document one day are going to be done. Because we've been here since 2009 and now we've bid 65, then 24, then 15, then 19 and finally never known, and many of them have never been seen anywhere at the auction, and that could be said of three health centers that are very sensitive to the health area of Ourense, as I am of the 20th century, of what Mrs. Acuña has already said, that of the Couto, or also the health center of Valenzá. Let's hope this time is true, but it's as curious as it is now, on the eve of the elections of this election year, especially of municipal elections, the Government of Galicia and Sergas have dedicated themselves to go through all the councils requesting work permits for health centres that are not yet bided. Specifically in my county, Barbados, two months ago, they applied for a leave to work for the health centre, which is not bid. It will be, Mr. Santalices... because, of course, I remember that I was still a conciliator, in the year 2002 – it rained since then – when the agreement between Sergas and the Town Hall of Barbados was signed and the land was made available, three years later, to build that health center. And so we could go on. But there are also decisions that don't have to do with the cuts strictly, but they're political decisions, like closing Toen's hospital and transferring psychiatric care to Piñor, depriving the 72-bed Ourense area...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u244	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u245	...what is having consequences, as we have seen, not only in this crisis of collapse in the emergencies that occurred during the last two months and also in previous episodes, but also with serious consequences on hospital waiting lists. As much as Mrs. Eloín Núñez is committed to trying to manipulate – and I say and repeat, to manipulate – through the most diverse devices, even by giving oral instructions to Sergas workers to manipulate the dates of the preference steering wheel for the concession of the steering wheel, they will not make people believe that they have been waiting for four, five, six months for an intervention or for a consultation that the waiting list is fifteen days. They may cheat for a while those who have nothing to do with health care, but what they're not going to be able to do is...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u246	Finish it, Mrs. Peace.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u247	...to constantly deceive the whole society, because, unfortunately, sooner or later we all end up in contact with public health and we end up seeing what the sad reality is: that, as much as they try to manipulate it, there are even waiting lists...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u248	Thank you very much, Mrs. Paz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u249	...in primary care, something that never happened before this way. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u250	Joint Group, Mrs. Iglesias Sueiro.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u251	Good afternoon. Thank you very much, President. This initiative presented by the Socialist Party in the resolution has three points. I'll go one by one. The first is to release the CHOU expansion works immediately by setting a start and completion date. I'm going to tell the story of an unfulfilled promise. On the 15th of 11th of 2011 Mr. Feijóo advances around the press the beginning of the improvement of the Ourense Hospital Complex, and says textually: A real, ambitious project that does not turn back. We are aware that Ourense doesn't just need more promises, but needs concrete realities. Before this legislation – the previous one – has to be applied for the work of the hospital complex. May 2012. The president opens a model at Expourense at Project Hospital 2050. I was there, and they threw the repressive forces on us. He made it in his speech he says textually: The Autonomous Community... – it is true – The Autonomous Community of Wales – and we did nothing but want to hand him a letter with the demands of the Platform for Health; this is the truth of life – has the economic margin to finance, together with the Central Government, this project, the biggest health innovation in history. June 13, 2013. The Platform for the Defence of Public Health of Ourense asks the Union to ensure the extension of the CHOU – no progress – and convenes the hospital complex for all opposition parties. February 10, 2015. Here we are debating an initiative for the Government of the Union to set a date - I think they started putting on the first brick, I don't know - for the completion of the works. Legal guarantees on an initiative that I'm very afraid will not be approved. Tomatoes, pure and hard electoralism, you'll say if there's any delay, I don't know. Point three. It completely restores the level of essential health benefits in Ourense, especially what reaches the pediatric surgery, etc., The People's Valedor issues a report on the dismantling of Ourense's Paediatric Surgery Service, which shows the clear chalice of Ourense's Power that the platform denounces on these points: deliberate loss of health professionals in this service, leaving the situation to-day in a single pediatric surgeon, and only on an ordinary day. When another support surgeon has been hired and obtained, it is permitted to "with conditions" – between quotes – "proposed for his employment" that this professional leaves Ourense. Creation of a service area shared with Vigo months after Ourense's service is left without pediatric surgeons, causing during this time a clear insecurity at risk for children who need that attention. Another incongruity. The need to draw the girls from Ourense province into a service like Vigo's, which has a waiting list, and does not strengthen Ourense's, which is not in that situation. Take away ourense's attention population from border areas such as Monforte, Chantada or Quiroga, to justify with this download the arguments that Ourense does not justify the need for surgeons. Or create a situation in which pregnant Ourense women who have been diagnosed with the fetus with a problem that requires surgical intervention in the postpartum will have to go and give birth outside Ourense. Or have done a management past the numbers, without evaluating the social costs of having to transfer children and children, and families, in many cases to hundreds of miles of their homes. The Valator of the People on September 5, 2014, in a report on the cuts in the Ourense Pediatric Surgery Service, she says...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u252	It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u253	...the government of the PP... I wonder if I'm still left?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u254	No, he's got a minute left.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u255	It urges the PP Government to take the necessary measures to provide as much assistance as possible to the CHOU Paediatric Surgery Service. The People's Valuer's recommendations are not binding – they should be stamped – to the administrations concerned, but they leave clear evidence to those who do not carry them forward, for they speak of their contempt and none of a institution that is so important to the defense of people's rights. And with regard to point 2 of this resolution, I hope that in the Council of Ourense the two parties, PP and PSOE, will come to an agreement that will put an end to the problems of land destined for the health centre in the 21st century. And the Joint Group of course supports this initiative. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u256	Thank you very much, Mrs. Churches. Parliamentary Group of the Left Galician Alternative. You have the word Eva Solla says.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u257	Thank you, President. First of all, and before we begin, refuse the repression of social movements by showing our solidarity with our partner, George, of the Assembly of Coia, who will be judged unjustly tomorrow for defending the rights of all, to whom they call for two and a half years of imprisonment for protesting – as we were other people there – for the breakdown of public money. [[Applause]] With reference to the initiative, the general features of this initiative are the certainty that they could well fit in any month and place, despite being processed in 2013, because unfortunately public health is far from a situation that is minimally acceptable. I suppose, now that the precipice begins, initiatives of this kind will be brought to the full and to the committees, because, as the BNG spokesman has already commented, in the case of the Government they are even requesting work permits from centres we understand they will not do, as they have done so far. And all health services in general, throughout the community, suffer from these unacceptable conditions derived from the same sources: staff cuts, material resources cuts and privatizations. In the case of Ourense, the political non-compliances by the People's Party have unfortunately been the subject of debate in this House and have resulted in a current situation which is quite far – as I said at first – from being minimally acceptable: committed and unbuilt health centres. And from AGE, and also from the rest of the opposition, budgets have been amended in these three legislative exercises, amendments that absolutely all, like the rest, have been rejected by the People's Party. An amendment of EUR 1.45 million for the Ourense Primary Care Centre, to extend this proposal, which was rejected; amendment for the construction of the Ribadavia Health Centre, EUR 2 million, was rejected; amendment of EUR 1.5 million for the construction of the Vinteún Health Centre in Ourense, was rejected. That's in 2015, but we've been presenting them since we're here, and neither the 66s nor the 15s have built any of the health centers committed and promised by the People's Party, health centers that are obviously necessary. And only now, when we run the risk of losing these European funds from those who assumed this morning, only now, of course – also in the full electoral cycle – will they bid the works. A number of works which, of course, had to be completed at least a couple of years ago, because we again repeat that most of these works will be carried out with European funds, in this case ERDF 2007-2013 funds, which must be consumed or executed before the end of this year 2015. This is the extension. And the case of Couto, which according to the project drafted by Cofely will have a duration of 14-month works, and according to the requirements of particular administrative clauses it will have a duration of 17 months the deadline of execution. In any case, deadlines are much higher than the year 2015, which are 10 months away. Just like the Salnés Hospital theme, as the AGE reported over the past year, and the rest of the centers dependent on this fund. It would not be too much for the People's Party to use here today to explain how it's going to meet these deadlines. If they're going to make the construction run to consume these funds before they finish 2015, and then we don't know what's going to happen to the rest of the funding of these works, or what plan they've been thinking about. It's true that a health center...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u258	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u259	...they can finish it more easily, but we don't know what's going to happen, for example, with the Ourense Hospital, which also depends on those funds. And we have already denounced here in full the administrative conditions, the difficulties and even the paralysis of these two contracts that were linked by the People's Party. I also reported in June that another contract was pending which was fixed at those administrative clauses, which were EUR 17 million in the management and operation of the parking lot, which would affect commercial spaces. It wouldn't be too much for the People's Party today to explain what happened to this contract. And in addition to all this, we obviously have what has already been mentioned here: the personnel cuts, the breakdowns in the emergencies, the non-covering of casualties, all this that we've already discussed over the past few months and which, of course, also in the public health of Ourense is breaking down and making the deterioration clearly manifest. In this sense, we are going to support the non-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u260	Thank you very much, Mrs. Solla. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Santalices.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u261	Thank you, Madam President, good afternoon to everyone. Allow me first, Madam President, to have a warm memory for my colleague from the Bureau of Parliament, Concepción Burgo, for her father's passing. And already entering the chair, you, Mrs. Acuña, have already justified himself with the emergency procedure. Of course this was December 2013, fortunately things changed. I'm not going to come in here today on how you handled the hospital subject, because you seem you're always looking for prices, resources, to see if you bury this or not. We're another philosophy, trying to build hospitals, not drop them down. You're always in the mood to see if there's any trap that prevents the hospital from being developed; they've already done so in Vigo and now they want to do it in Ourense. And you still have here the undoubtedness of going out and telling us that 140 million euros were left on sale at the time of the Government Tourin. Please! That's the candy and the plate, but we all know what the reality was, it didn't start. Fortunately, now the hospital is starting – you wear carpet and so on – and it has a good pace of work. Why do you here express your concern that European Union funds may be lost? I don't know if it's your concern or – let me tell you this openly – if it's your wish, and it would be serious if you wanted the European Union's funds to be lost. I think we should push for the Ourense hospital to be built because it's a necessity. We need to reform those rooms. It's not normal for three-bed rooms to continue sharing a bathroom. We must therefore push the construction project. By the way, 53,000 square meters is what's going to be built in the new hospital. So this subject we're going to leave it there. I hope that Mr. Vázquez, when he is mayor of Ourense – that he will – does not put the same traps that they are putting today in the Town Hall. I don't know if you know that in the City Hall of Ourense up to remove a container there's no one to give that report. It's like the panic in the City Hall of Ourense that someone can do something to do, that there's no one signing a paper. We have to fix this situation anyway. Mr. Vázquez, you're in trouble and you're a mayor, because if you don't, we may have problems with the hospital building. I want to stop in two things. Of course, I would back support what was done with psychiatric care, for it was not to be received what was being done in Toén. And I was director of Toén's hospital; it wasn't a receipt. Now he's providing a decent assistance at Piñor's hospital. What's to give a solution to Toén's hospital? Well, you'll have to give it to her, but I would, of course, always support what was done with psychiatric care, which at this time is much more worthy than the one she was lending in Toén; by magnificent professionals, but the facilities were not worthy. Paediatric surgery. Let's see if we're clear. I respect the Valator very much, but the Valator may also be wrong at times, and the Valator has made a report which I do not share. Here we're going to start talking straight. The issue of Ourense's pediatric surgery – and Mrs. Paz well knows what I'm talking about because I talked to the professional I had to talk about – was a recycling problem of a pediatric surgeon who had been without the profession for many years and decided to return. In the law, it is envisaged that this professional must be recycled, and he was given. But let's go to the data, let's go to the data because you're here always saying: if they derive, if they derive, if they derive. The current data I have here: pediatric programmed surgery – data provided by the Hospital Management, therefore, are data that are evaluated, out of the hospital information –, 206; urgent surgery, 45 cases in 2013 and 66 in 2014; derivations to Vigo – paying attention to the data –, 7 patients, and here are the pathologies that have been derived. So let's see if we put things in their place. There were 7 patients, one of them had to be derived from Vigo because he was an appendicitis and he was from Vigo, and they asked the parents to go to Vigo. So we got six. Another was a...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u262	It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u263	... –I'm sorry, Madam President, have I passed? Is this matter very important because it's to clarify something that many people have kicked in, and it's good to clarify in parliamentary headquarters, I said in a case that, if requested by the father and mother, I think it must be done. Second, a burn. In Ourense burn, reference Vigo, patient derived there. Third case, a problem with a pneumothorax, chest surgery, Ourense doesn't have, and Vigo has to be derived. An enterocutaneous fistula of a newborn low-weight child, which must be derived from Vigo as before. Don't bother, Mrs. Acuña, the magnificent work that Ourense's pediatric surgery is doing in collaboration with General Surgery and Urology. In a testicle twist, a urologist as well as a pediatric surgeon, and in an appendix, he does it as well as a general surgeon as a pediatric surgeon. And you know that. Don't bother what's working perfectly.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u264	Thank you very much, Mr. Santalices.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u265	Allow me to have to correct the People's Valuer here: 7 patients to Vigo, reports have to contrast them. Nothing else, Madam President. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u266	Thank you very much. Group author of the non-law proposal. You have the word to Mrs. Acuña do Campo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u267	Thank you, President. First of all, thank you for the support of the groups and tell us that we accept the proposal that has been put forward since the BNG, as it completes our initiative. As for the People's Party, simply tell Mr. Santalices that whoever is going to have to justify – and in addition much – is that person, that candidate who is applying for the mayor of Ourense and who, however, does not agree to define the start date and the end date of the plan director of the hospital complex of the city. That it is not cordial to clarify and guarantee the financing of these works. That it does not agree that the contracts that are carried out to do such works are carried out within the guidelines that mark the courts. It's hard to justify and explain that the person who the PP postulates for the mayor of Ourense does not agree that in his city the health centres that are needed are built, and that he has been committed to Mr. Feijóo for more than six years. It's hard to explain and justify that the person presented by the PP as a candidate for the mayor of Ourense is in accordance with the mismanagement he's doing the president's cousin with gold health; that he has in arms all and all professionals, that he has the unions in the Prosecutor's Office and that he has the concerned and very annoying citizenship calling the door of the People's Valedor, even though Mr. Santalices bothers him. It's hard to explain if you agree that the children of Ourense and the province are being taken off the roads, be it one, two or seven. That you agree to remove the patients from Ourense hospital...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u268	It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u269	...because the people go money; that they agree to take away from the hospital complex their university character; that they agree that the money of all the neighbors of the city who aspire to govern are destined to companies that in exchange finance the People's Party illegally, as reported by the former party manager in Ourense, involving more than 34 PP positions. It is very difficult to believe that it may be a good mayor of Ourense who is a candidate appointed to his finger by Mr Feijóo and who is also refusing to obey. There's no more to look at the posture...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u270	Mr. Tellado, I'm gonna have to call him in order.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u271	...that Mr. Vázquez has in this fullness, half hidden and curled up in his seat.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u272	Thank you very much. Mrs Acuña, just remind you that I would ask you to address yourself to the House in your speeches or, in any case, to the honourable Member who intervenes, and you do not address anyone who is not even in the debate. Your speech has to be addressed to the House, and at the very least to the person who's intervening in the debate, because then we find ourselves in situations that... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Mr. Losada was talking to you, 'cause I don't remember, huh? Let's go on. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. People of Galicia, on the initiative of Mr José Manuel Balsairo Orol and seven other Members, on the demands to be made by the Government of Greece before the Central Government and the European Union in relation to third countries which do not comply with the requirements laid down in the European Regulation on illegal unreported and unregulated fishing or IUU fishing
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u273	This motion for a non-law amendment was tabled by the Joint Group, the Socialist Group and the Parliamentary Group on the Glaga Alternative of the Left.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u274	You have the floor, Mr. Balsairo, to formulate your proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u275	Mr. Vázquez, you know that as Mr. Vázquez here could not be, you put them nervously in the government, but it seems to make them more nervous towards the mayor of Ourense, because the honourable Member has said nothing... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u276	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u277	...from the replica of the initiative, and it seems it was asking you. That's not a bad question. That's a good question. Sign that you're nervous. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, today's initiative seeks to demand more powerful actions from the European Union, greater control over the activity of non-Community countries which participate in illegal fishing and which then sell their products on our markets. Finally, we demand greater protection from the interests of our sailors and our crew, a more effective protection of our fishing fleet. I believe that we will all agree that illegal fishing represents a problem for the future of seafarers, and a problem, because fish populations are exhausted, because it destroys marine habitats, and because it unjustly harms legal fishermen and causes major distortions in competition and markets. To combat this scourge, the member countries of the European Union – including our own – have made a commitment to put all the tools at their disposal so as not to allow illegal people to benefit from their activities. For example, all European States ratified the European Union Regulation in January 2010 to prevent, discourage and eliminate illegal unreported and unregulated fishing. Indeed, ladies and gentlemen, Europe is working actively to ensure that it is applied consistently and that only certified marine fishery products, only legal products certified by the flag State or the corresponding exporting State, can be imported by the European Union. It is logical that, as long as there are countries in the world that do not comply with these rules, which do not contribute to the fight against illegal fishing, we understand that any kind of trade agreement with these countries must be blocked. The Group of the People's Party and the Group of the People's Parliament must promote a number of safeguards that prevent non-compliance countries from taking advantage of the competitive advantage they gain from these illegal practices, and above all to establish safeguards already provided for in Community legislation, such as suspension of imports as long as these rules are not complied with. In addition, the popular Greeks are seeking an agreement from this House that offers a clear message to protect the Community market from unfair competition that causes suspicious imports, such as those from Vietnam – swordfish –, the Philippines or Thailand, with tuna preserved. By the way, speaking about the conservation of tuna, in particular the defence of our preserved in the Philippines, we have just adopted a non-law proposal in the last Committee on Fisheries with the unanimous support of all the political forces in this Parliament. Without a doubt, going hand in hand in these petitions is a remarkable step forward which, of course, Europe will listen to us. In the debate on this initiative we have so particularly assured, and today we maintain, that the People's Party and the People's Parliamentary Group are not afraid of free competition, that Galicia is a world power in the fisheries sector and in the conservation sector, that it has quality products capable of competing with any country in the world. But, of course, it is, as long as that competition takes place on an equal footing and with the same playing rules for all. And today, on the other hand, there are countries that don't meet those demands. I cannot deny that there is growing awareness of these issues, also in the Community institutions. Among other reasons, the momentum of demands from political groups; among them, of the people's MEPs committed in this area. It's true that other political forces, on the other hand, are not cutting up on this issue. The European Commission has initiated sanctions and suspended imports from certain countries. In addition, there are regulations in place to impose reciprocity on human, labour and social rights, on illegal fishing and on the environment. Even reciprocity clauses are introduced in international treaties, but often they do not work with the agility that we all want; above all, compared to the speed of transactions on the market. There are cases even in which the processing of an international treaty leads a different path and not complementary to the study of sanctions in the field of fisheries, environmental or health. I mean, ladies and gentlemen, what the People's Group wants today and what the People's Group brings today is an initiative because we want to improve the system. And we want to improve it from Galicia. Galicia, as a world fishing power, we want you to raise your voice with the support of this House to make this improvement possible. Ladies and gentlemen, we want a firm agreement from the Galician Parliament, which calls for greater control and stronger actions in defence of our fisheries professionals. And on that line we offer the initiative we bring today. It is true that most of the groups have seen this initiative with good eyes. I'm saying they saw her with good eyes. The president just said, there were groups that tabled amendments. I think there's a possibility. Of course, from the majority group in this House we are working to reach an agreement on those amendments that have been tabled by the various groups; in some of them, not at all. But after you listen to them in the replica shift, I'll tell them what we accept and what we don't. Thank you very much and nothing more, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u278	Thank you very much, Mr. Balsairo. Intervention of parliamentary groups. [[Pause.]] For the Mixed Group, Mrs. Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u279	Well, obviously, I don't think anyone supports illegal undeclared, unregulated fishing. And in addition, at European level it is not a new issue either, it is not something that the Galician Parliament has just discovered but that it is already quite advanced in certain measures, which Mr Balsairo seems to have just happened to him. Of course, and when the initiative is read to me, my attention is drawn to what the initiative says for Europe to take all the measures it deems necessary. And that's it. Nor did they break their heads very much by proposing measures or new things. So it's so ambiguous that it's obviously hard to disagree with something like that. Undeclared illegal fishing is a major threat to fishing in general, as fish populations are exhausted; it destroys marine habitats; it distorts competition; it harms legal fishing, and therefore those who contribute to their work also improving the quality of life and the economy of our country; it brittles coastal communities, since they are invading their competences and their way of life; it violates labour rights, because if fishing is illegal, workers are also working under non-legal conditions, therefore, they are working under conditions of overexploitation; and even in many cases human rights are violated, and workers, sailors of these ships, usually do not have security and bear true slavery conditions. Hence our support, of course, for this initiative which has been collected since 2008 in several European Union documents. But if we're surprised that the People's Party today brings us this initiative here. First of all, because this concern shown by the People's Group for the European Union's tariff activity is a little against, you see against, what the People's Party really defends later when it is in Europe. That is to say, this best liberalization, to the beast and without control, of all markets is what leads us to these situations, to liberalization open to everything and without control. But then you come here to tell us other movies, we've been used to saying something here, and in Madrid and Brussels they say something else. We therefore believe that this initiative, in the face of an electoral process in which we are now involved, aims to wash our faces in front of the sector. Then there is no wonder that you have to encourage Mr. Feijóo to have the Government of Madrid in turn worry. Because it gives the impression that you are the opposition of the Government of Madrid when you and the Government of Madrid really have the same objectives. So the effectiveness of Feijóo is clear that it does not work and that the problems are obviously not solved in Madrid but that Mr Feijóo brings here very obediently what Madrid requires, and so we go. We consider this to be a cynicism exercise by the People's Party, but we are still going to vote in favour of this initiative, because we believe it is coherent to pursue and end illegal fishing. But we also ask for the vote in favour of the amendment, and I explain the amendment. It's an amendment in defense of the fleet of bass. It is not a question of congruence whether or not to enter this initiative, because we understand that the defence of our fishing sector goes beyond illegal fishing with third countries. In our rivers bass fishing is fundamental in the Greek fishing sector and in our economy. Our bass fishing is part of our culture, our food, our way of understanding the relationship with the sea. That's why we have to defend her and support her to survive in time...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u280	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u281	...as a sustainable fishing model. That's why we expect the People's Party to take account of our amendment. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u282	Thank you very much. Parliamentary Group of the Left Galician Alternative. Mr. Fajardo Recoso has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u283	Good afternoon again. Some are called to order by what we say, others are warned that they might be called to order by interrupting. Democracy 2.0. There is a reality in the People's Party's proposal that is excessively common in the proposals of this type brought to the House, and one thing is what the proposal says and another is what Mr. Balsairo says when he gets to this gallery. Because he says he's going to make greater protection for our interests, to protect our fishing fleet, to initiate powerful actions. All of this has nothing to do with the absolutely ambiguous proposal, and that goes for everything, which comes from the text you've registered. It's a common thing for that revolutionary world that serves for everything and to give the appearance of concern in this sense, when reality is another. And reality is so obvious, imagine, that there is a fishing agreement with the Philippines, with Thailand and so on, or a free trade agreement, and that, because of that decision of the People's Party that from December on it is no longer mandatory to put into the products drawn up the origin of that product, we can find that any of these products which are produced or fished in Asia can be sold as a Welsh simply by which a part of the production process is done in Galicia. That is to say, it cannot be proposed here that the sector should be vigorously defended when a tuna fish in Thailand is allowed to come to Galicia, put it on the can, and simply, because here it is put on the can or box, it can be sold as a Greek; as is the case after the regulatory amendment that was brought forward thanks to the initiative of the European People's Party. That's the reality of the People's Party. But not only that, but these agreements and decisions are taken by the European Commission. That European Commission was voted on by the European Parliamentarians of the People's Party and the European Parliamentarians of Mr Balsairo's group. Therefore, we are faced with a new face wash, with that maneuver of political filibusterism which always makes Mr Balsairo appear to be on the side of the sector, when in reality where the decisions are made is in Europe and his group is always against the sector. And if you want to protect our fishing industry, what you have to do is avoid the market situation. And in that situation of unfair competition where thousands of products continue to be sold as if they were Greeks, where there is an invasion of foreign products that is sold every day in the supermarkets of Galicia as if they were their own, and in supermarkets outside of Galicia, where they are also sold as if it were ours, in which case they have to work. So our amendment is a little bit to clarify. And what needs to be clarified is that such agreements cannot be reached with countries where labour rights are not respected, human rights are not respected; and where, moreover, illegal fishing is used, as the proposal sets out. So that is the question, we want to clarify the situation. And what cannot be said is that the same group that says it is against these attitudes has presented before this Parliament and before the Committee on Fisheries a number of initiatives in which it proposes that in agreements with third countries the issues of cooperation be left out. Why is there labour exploitation in those countries? Why is there illegal fishing in those countries? There is an absolutely regrettable social situation. So the only way to fight these illegal methods is to have social equity and, therefore, in those countries where there is illegal fishing, people don't have to go fishing at any price and don't have to accept any kind of work situation. So you can't say a speech and then make decisions that go against that speech. And one of the decisions is that you supported the elimination of social balances and development cooperation in agreements with third countries. So we made a amendment that only makes it clear that, while these practices are being given, we can't agree on agreements like these. But in addition, you should once again explain how your group defended – I insist – and allowed that decision to be taken in the European Union. Any product fished in any part of the world other than Galicia can be sold as a Welshman simply by which the box is made in Galicia, that's the reality of the People's Party. And that's why at this visit the Fisheries Commission is going to Galicia, you were so interested that you didn't come together with bass fishing or minor arts, but they did insist a lot on getting targeted with Anfaco and the great shipowners. That's the difference between the People's Party and the Galactic Left Alternative.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u284	Thank you very much, Mr. Fajardo. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr. Val Alonso has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u285	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon to all and to all. Well, what the People's Party is presenting today has already been debated in this House through a non-legislative proposal that the Socialist Group presented exactly one year ago; a proposal that contained four points, of which two were voted against by the People's Party. But, as we're getting to know each other, we all know perfectly what the interests of the People's Party are moving to bring this initiative right now. We maintain what we said at that time, we know that certain sectors of production are totally affected by the international agreements signed between the European Union and third countries because the conditions under which certain goods and services are produced in the latter are not comparable to the European social model. But if the working conditions of some of the countries we are referring to do not allow any comparison to those existing in Europe, there are also considerable differences with many of them in terms of conservation and preservation of natural resources policies, which make what is persecutionable and punishable within the territory of the European Union and for the companies located here often end up in the lines of our commercial centres as products produced from third countries based on some international treaty. One of the sectors most affected by the EU's international treaties is the fisheries sector, and all its sub-sectors. Thus, when free trade or cooperation agreements are negotiated in this area with third countries, there are always elements of uncertainty and concern about the consequences that they may have for our interests. We believe that the European Union must reach international agreements that promote the development of international trade and that contribute to material progress in other parts of the world, but those agreements cannot facilitate labour and environmental practices other than human rights that the European Union would never consent to in its territory. But the People's Party cannot come to the German Parliament alone with these initiatives. And I'm saying it can't come with just these initiatives because the People's Party rules in Galicia and governs in the state. And just a few days ago, the European Union approved a new trade agreement with one of these countries, which also put our canister sector against the ropes. Therefore, something more demanding indeed that we have to ask Mr. Feijóo, who today has not even spoken on it. We also know that a few days ago Mr Feijóo traveled to Brussels, Mr Balsairo, and we wondered what was the reason for this visit. Did you talk about this with the Commissioner, Mr. Balsairo? Did you talk about what this kind of arrangement could mean for our production system, for our industrial system? From the PSdeg we don't think so, we think Mr. Feijóo was just going to Brussels to take a totally empty picture of content. All of this while the industrial fabric of this country linked to the fishing sector collapses and is even against the ropes. The Greek Government is looking elsewhere, and all it takes is to travel to Brussels and bring to Parliament initiatives like this, which, as a political makeup operation, is very good, but which in practice does not serve anything at all. Because reality is quite different, Mr. Balsairo. While we are debating here that the signing of trade agreements is conditional on compliance with the rules on illegal fishing, on compliance with workers' labour rights, on compliance with the regulations on hygiene and health matters, the reality out there is quite different. Or do you have any doubt that in the Philippines, for example – which is the last trade agreement signed – none of these issues are met? We have no doubt of that, Mr. Balsairo. So it's not only good to come here to make a scene and then look the other way in places where you have to condition your decision-making. We agree with what you say on this initiative, but it's not enough, Mr. Balsairo. We propose a three-point amendment. In the first we collect what you say, and two additional points that are those that you yourself voted against exactly a year ago...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u286	It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u287	...when we present a very similar initiative to what you present today. Two points which relate to conditionaling trade agreements on compliance with EU standards equivalent to EU rules on hygiene, socio-work and environmental matters, as well as on the defence of labour rights in any part of the world, those that are comparable to those of the European Union. If you want to count on the support of the Socialist Party, you know you will have to accept this amendment. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u288	Thank you very much, Mr. Val. For the German Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mr. Rodas has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u289	Good afternoon. It's not like the carnival's coming. With this initiative, Mr. Balsairo, you intend to wash your face to the Spanish Government and to the Greek for your incompetence to prevent free trade agreements that are ruining strategic sectors of our economy, as it is preserved, or as long-range fishing. And they come to this House in the wake of Anfaco's loud cry, which proves that since December 25, the Philippines can send to the European Union market a list of more than 6,000 tariff-free products, including products such as tuna conservation. That's the crusader reality. So we're facing a highly dramatic situation. But I have to remind you that this is not the first one, because I have to remind you that recently there was also a new agreement with Papua New Guinea, which, by the way, is the second world producer in tuna cans, and also last year with Thailand, that this is the first world producer of tuna cans. And we can see that, indeed, this new agreement is going to move from 24% tariffs to no tariffs, which means that it can go from 44,500 tons to nothing more and nothing less than 70,000 tons. Therefore, Mr. Balsairo, we are faced with a new case of unfair competition, but also with a new case of manifest inability of diplomacy by the Spanish Government to defend the legitimate interests it has in the conservation. We are therefore faced with a new case, indeed, of unfair competition, where we do not always comply with the hygienic-sanitary rules, not even the work or responsible fishing. Because you well know that only what is required of you is that these cans of tuna are canned in the countries of origin. So there won't be any other kind of control there. And indeed, it is the ruin of a strategic sector for our country, which represents 3% of GDP, which represents 6.5% of employment, which employs more than 12,700 workers, of which 80% are women. But it is also true, Mr. Balsairo, that you come here to try, as I said, to wash the Government's face rather than come to realize its ability to manage. Because I have to remind you that this agreement was reflected on December 25 of last year. So here you've had a great opportunity to reflect what you're asking for here, that it's nothing but blocking these kind of agreements that are tremendously harmful to our productive sectors, blocking or leaving out of that agreement, for example, the retained Galician one. So, if you had a minimum of dignity, instead of coming here to justify the incompetence of your governments, you would come here to give us explanations of the management that they carried out. Because I have to remind you that in 2013, this same demonstration...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u290	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u291	...that you brought here has already framed the Secretary-General of the Sea at the World Fisheries Conference, where he was going to demand that the European Union, in fact, be able to compete under the same conditions and with the same rules. Or we should also demand what was the accompaniment she said she had the Counsellor with her own sector. Therefore, Mr. Balsairo, less hypocrisy and more work, which is what you should come to account here. So we're faced with a new scenery, a new entrance, in the sense of appearing, appearing to do absolutely nothing. The clearest example is in the visit the president made to Brussels, neither did he speak of the preserve or the garden...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u292	Finish it, Mr. Rhodes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u293	...not the jury or anything. To him, in fact, all he cared about was that the BNG had been with the sailors in Brussels and had shown the incompetence of this government, which is not supposed to...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u294	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u295	...in Galicia's interests, though there are always some who keep listening to him and believe in his promises. And we also had a good opportunity now with the Minister's visit...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u296	Thank you very much, Mr. Rhodes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u297	...where we saw that, instead of coming to solve the problems, what you came to, in fact, is to give yourself a good fill with the Lalin cooking. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u298	Group author of the non-law proposal. Mr. Balsairo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u299	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Rhodes, you spoke of carnival. It is true that in my village they say "attack before they attack you," because, to speak of the defence of Galician interests in Europe in the fisheries sector, the Galician Nationalist Block, at least, is not legitimized. I'm saying it's not legitimized because you can convince your partners, and BNG in Europe is with environmentalists, who impose bans like the ones in the way and impose bans on cutting quotas. No, no, listen, listen. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] You're the only one who's been doing Europe were photos. [[Murmurs.]] He had to go and fix it after the president of the board of Galicia Then he was to fix it by the president of the board of Galicia. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] You were taking the photos. [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] And Mr. Val, did the Commissioner explain these problems to Mr. President of Galicia? Not only did he explain it to you, but he invited you and the commissioner committed to coming to Galicia to see them on site. You're taking the photos and giving the wrong information. The president of the board, solving the problem, as always. But it is more, you have spoken – and it is good for you to document yourself – of the Philippines agreement. Look, the voice of the BNG in Europe, its partners, Mr Juaristi's deputy, has abstained on December 18 in voting on the blockade of the treaty with the Philippines, its partners and the voice you have there. Because you, right now, don't have any Members there. That's the way it is, but it's good that you attack before they attack you. Mrs. Martínez, I don't know what to tell you because you're sure you haven't read the deal. You said the agreement said "to take all the measures they think they need." But it goes further to the agreement, it says: "...including agreeing and maintaining the suspension of imports of fishery products or blocking the negotiation of new trade agreements as long as these third countries do not comply with the requirement on illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing." You have to read it all. No, no, you didn't say that, I'd take it to the gallery of Parliament, but you didn't say it at all. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] It is true that we cannot accept his amendment. We can't accept it because one thing is trading quotas and another is signing international treaties, which are different things. But besides, about the siege, about negotiations, you have to respect the management model, which is still being negotiated, is still pending. We'll talk about that. Madam President, I conclude by saying that we accept point 2 and point 3 of the amendment of the Socialist Party. We don't accept point 1 because it's exactly the same as our agreement. We accept point 2 and point 3. And we agree to add the AGE amendment. Nothing more and thank you very much. [[Applause]] G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da María Carmen Gallego Calvar and nine other Members, on the development by the Government of Galicia of a plan of public works activities in the municipalities of Marín, Bueu, Cangas, Moaña and Vilaboa
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u300	This motion for a non-law has been tabled with an amendment by the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u301	Mrs Gallego has the floor to make her proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u302	Good night. Thank you very much, Madam President. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. What do you want me to tell them? Today I am happy, I think it has been worth bringing this initiative to the Galician Parliament by the Socialist Parliamentary Group, because we have long been missing some public statement by the members of the Galician Government regarding the Morrazo region. And today, finally, after having this initiative on the agenda, in which we have asked for it again – once again, I say, because we have repeatedly been asking for it in the amendments to the budgets of the Galician Council in the past six years, since Mr Feijóo has ruled, and through initiatives in the plenary and the Commission – it has finally been Mrs. Environmental Counsellor, Territory and Morration Infrastructure, visited the Cangas Council, made the delivery of the badge of the Cangas Council, the mayor of Cangas, and announced that this spring – a little earlier than the municipal elections – will bid for the collapse of the Morration corridor in the first phase, that is, in the portion of Domaio. It is surprising, above all, that the Official Journal of Galicia announced in 2013 that this invitation to tender was to be made and that there was a period of eighteen months, which was curiously expired in March 2015. A whole surprise. Anyway, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, we have to joke about things, because the fact is that the People's Party's commitment to the Morrazo region, in these six years, is frankly non-existent, by saying this in a smooth, non-existent way, as to the road infrastructures that have been channeled by the previous government. I have to remind you all that in the Official Journal of Galicia of February 28, 2008 and in July 2008, the drafting of the project was published and the environmental impact of both the variants of Cangas and Moaña and the collapse of the Morrazo corridor. And almost seven years later the works have not yet begun. There was an adjudication that had to be cancelled because the companies that presented themselves were not solvents. Finally, a series of excuses, all of them leading to delay sine die the unfoldment of this path, an unfoldment which the socialists have seen claiming since before it was built. I mean, on his day, when he started talking about this infrastructure we always said that he had to have two lanes in each direction, because the accumulation of traffic – especially during the summer season – is so important that with a track only on each side would happen what happened, an absolute jam. And besides, still above, it's an absolutely dangerous path, where many people have already died. That's one of the main demands, which unfolds to improve the safety of people who travel around this road, who communicates the Morrazo district with the entire metropolitan area and with AP-9. Today we know nothing about how the connection of the extension of the Rande Bridge will be resolved with the collapse of the Morrazo corridor, because the advisor makes statements but there is no explanation. We don't even know what's going to happen with the roundabout that connects AP-9 with the Morrazo corridor and National 554, where I can look every morning like there's kilometre tails so I can access both the AP-9 and the Morrazo corridor. Because it's a roundabout made with very bad planning. We know nothing – although today she announces the Counsellor that the variant of Cangas is going to be built in parallel – of the variant of Bueu, for example, of what nothing is said and that this government did not perform any performance on it. From Moaña, which was planned as planned, if we know there's a neighboring opposition and the Town Hall itself. But there will have to be some way of solving the communication between the current road, the comarcal road, and the Morrazo corridor. Nothing is said of that. Of course, the National 554, in respect of which the former Environmental, Territorial and Infrastructure Counsellor, as a passive, has committed himself to the request of the Government of the State for the transfer of title to the Council of Galicia, I must remind you here that it is a national that has nine kilometres, nine roundabouts, and that passes through a part of a single council; and that on its day it declared itself national because it had to give access to a motorway, it was the only reason. But today it doesn't make any sense that this road is state-owned, it could be much better managed by the Autonomous Community. Well, the former Environmental Adviser had committed himself to the management of that transfer of title. We don't know anything today. And, of course, this is about road infrastructure. But if we talk about essential public services for the neighbors and neighbors of the Morrazo district, and in this case we have to talk about health, because nothing at all. Look, Marín Health Center, People's Party gentlemen: agreement signed by the Health Counsellor, Mrs. Rubio, and Mr. Mayor of Marín, Mr. Veiga Soto. Convention signed at the end of 2008, first in 2009. Today, almost seven years later, do you know how the Marine Health Center is? Not built. Used in the past year, and not built, without even starting the dismantling of lands. Sky! Aldán-Hio Health Centre: Lands placed at the disposal of the Health Council in 2008; not built. With remittances from the mayor of Cangas trying to cover up the disarray of the neighbors and the protests of the Public Health Defense Platform, attempting that the former home of the physician of Hio had become an absolutely precarious health center, which had to be discarded; but not built. Moaña Health Center: non-existent. Let's not say the Morrazo High Resolution Center, for which both the Town Hall of Cangas and Moaña have offered land to make them available to the board. A high-resolution center that would be the only way that the neighbours of the Morrazo Town Councils have to enter public health, an entry door into public health. Because I have to remind your lordships that most of the neighbors and neighbors of this region today are discriminated against in respect of the rest of Galician citizens, because they have as their reference hospital a private hospital, and so it will continue to be even though this new private Vigo hospital is built, more expensive and smaller than what was planned, since here Mr Santalices and other Members of the People's Party want to make us believe otherwise. Well, that high-resolution Morration center that was compromised, like the one in Lalin and the one in Vigo, are all three without building six years later. Education centres in each of the municipalities, in Vilaboa, in Moaña, in Cangas, in Bueu, which over the years have suffered from temporary breakdowns, which suffer from low maintenance. All the municipalities have repeatedly asked the College of Education and Universitary ordination to help ensure that they can be arranged and that children and children can have access to them in security conditions, so that they are well cared for. Of all these questions, of course, not to mention them. The only thing Mr. Feijóo's People's and Government's Party does in Morrazo is what the Environmental Adviser today did in Cangas Town Hall: advertising and propaganda every time there's an electoral process around. The runner is the best example of all that I say. Every time there's an electoral process of autonomics, generals, municipalities, even European elections, there's a parade of advisors through Morrazo's district announcing that there's good news of the break-up of the corridor, the construction of health centers, the construction of the high resolution center, everything. As I did, by the way, some time ago, Mr. Rajoy, when he was not yet President of the Government...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u303	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u304	...who was going to Morrazo to tell us whenever he was going to raise Rande's toll. Of course, later he had to be a socialist government in Madrid, with a government presided over by a socialist in the Union, which had to lift the toll of Rande's bridge. I hope, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, that since there is this change in size and that Mrs. Environmental Adviser today visited the Cangas Town Hall, you are welcome to accept this proposal presented by the Socialist Group, in which we made a very small selection of the basic needs that has the district of Morrazo and the municipality of Vilaboa, which are to open the corridor, to build the variants of Cangas, Moaña and Bueu, to obtain the title of National 554 and resolve the link of Vilaboa with the AP-9 and the corridor of Morrazo, to build the health centers of Aldan, Marín, Moaña and the CAR of Morrazo, and to repair and modernize public schools in Vilaboa, Moaña, Cangas and Bueu. I hope that I shall not be called to mind if I call on the honourable Members who are from that region and who are part of the ranks of the People's Party...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u305	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u306	...to vote in favour of the neighbours and neighbours of that region, and not solely for the interests of the People's Party. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u307	Thank you very much. Intervention of parliamentary groups. For the Mixed Group, Mrs. Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u308	Today's Morrazo barge has 8,788 unemployed and unemployed, 4.25% more than in January, in chains of five consecutive months of increasing unemployment; 8,830 of these unemployed and unemployed are over 25 years old and 458 are below this age. By sectors, the service sector is the most unemployed, followed by industry, construction and, finally, agriculture and fisheries. It would be necessary to increase the policies of generation and maintenance of employment, encourage the different local economies, with clear bets on quality tourism in the services sector, boosting their natural resources, their culture and their heritage. But this is not happening in the Morrazo, nor the expansion of the Castineiras industrial park, collected in the Sectoral Plan for Management of Business Areas of Galicia, nor the expansion of the Massó Museum in Bueu, despite the offer of the municipality of a plot of 200 square meters, nor the management of the Marin node agreed with Development, nor the expansion of the trapping in San Adrián de Cobres, nor the expansion of the docking of Moaña muggers, nor the sanitation of the port of Cangas, and a long et cetera of projects that are only heard during the electoral campaigns, but never to develop. And speaking of non-compliance, we are going to talk about the collapse of the "pedapid road", a breakthrough that will now be necessary thanks to the initial project of the corridor, illegal, hurried, which has produced a serious environmental impact, has completely destroyed mines of natural waters and has many defects on the same road that caused more than one death, for which I ask that before it unfolds and there I have a different opinion from that of the Socialist Party, if you do a serious, impartial and critical study where the problems of the current corridor are analysed and the responsibilities are cleared, if you propose solutions consistent with the citizenship and social agents of the region, if you improve, vertebrae and humanize the comarcal network of existing roads, if you can manage the public transport, land, maritime and rail transport of proximity, with connections between the Morrazo part and the region of Vigo, by the rigour, by means of its new buses, by means of transport, by means of ships, by means of transport of existing roads, by means of water, by means of transport, by means of transport, by means of transport, by means of energy, by means of energy, by means of energy, by means, by means of energy, through energy, through energy, through the energy, through energy, through the energy, through the energy, through the energy, through the energy, through the energy, through the energy, and by means, through the energy, through the energy, through the energy, through the energy, through the energy, through the energy, through the energy, through the energy, through the energy, through the energy, through the energy, through the energy, through the energy, through the energy and through the energy, through the energy, through the energy, through the energy and through the energy, through the energy, through the energy, through the energy, through the energy, through the energy, through the energy, through the energy, through the energy and through the energy and through the energy and through the energy, through the energy and through the energy and through the energy and through the energy and through the energy. On the health issue, the spokesman for the Socialist Party has already spoken, I will not insist. But if it's true that people in Cangas and Moaña wonder why they have to go to a private hospital. The health centers are the same. We've talked about Aldan, Moaña, Marín, High Resolution Center. All plans, promises, that were made to the Morrazo Peninsula and of which none is fulfilled at this time. The People's Party doesn't have a Morrazo program or interest in the county. The only interest of the People's Party at Morrazo begins with the announcement of the elections and ends the next day of the vote. That's the only interest you have. If the banks are rescued and given a deal of favor to the great fortunes, one must focus on ending that policy and that money – which there is, because it is not a problem that there is no money, but how it is used, and where it is used, and how tax is used – it should be changed to start supporting citizenry damaged by a crisis that has made rich the rich and poorer the poorer. That is why we tabled this amendment to essentially request that this study be done. We don't have to reopen the Morrazo corridor that Morrazo society hasn't decided if it wants to. Many of these developments, like the collapse of the Rande Bridge, can be solved by a collective public transport that responds to the needs of the Vigo River, which in the end is only that interest, solves the transport problems of people and does not continue to fill with asphalt and destroy our mountains and our natural heritage at the expense of great routes that ultimately bring us more problems. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u309	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. For the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mr. Rhodes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u310	Rare, strange, eh!, that every time the elections arrive, they come back again, and both the metropolitan and the fast way. Well, it has to be said that this time what's remarkable is that the People's Party is going to do the campaign nothing more and nothing less than 3,250 meters fast. The truth is, he's got a fucking merit. I think this is a good opportunity to balance the commitment and the real realized by Nuñez Feijóo since he showed up there in 2009. And I'd like to use only two examples. One could be the water supply emissary to Moaña and Cangas, a project, by the way, that left the former government ready and that only had to assist him. And despite being handed over the work in October 2013, today neither the new works nor the old offers sufficient guarantees; six years for a crucial work for Morration whose result is totally uncertain. The other example, I said, related to metropolitan transport, is river transport. Today they continue to fail to fulfil their commitment to bring here their own proposal for recovery as a public service, allowing companies to do whatever they want: they rise prices, they eliminate frequencies, they withdraw services, they fake data, they even fire workers, and here nothing happens at all. All this time, not a single action, except, of course, to carry out the previous parliamentary group of visits, of cruises, and, how not, to campaign with New Generations, in which that candidate for mayor would distribute piroulets and announce, yes, that with the PP at last we would have a transport of rhino in condition. The thing is also very serious if we consider the main commitments by which it has achieved power. They have already referred here to one of them, the Marine Health Center. By the way, the commitment is that it would be built in 2011, and for which then there was already a commitment of EUR 3.6 million. The other, of course, is the Aldán-O Hio Health Center, also committed that he would have started the works in 2012 by President Feijóo. And today, with this center we live the drama that, instead of being the center, at least projected or, at least, committed what your project should be, because we watch as you invest 110,000 euros of funds in the doctor's house. A centre, by the way, concerning what Sergas' own manager himself has been affirming with total roundness that nothing knows about the works nor knows the project nor has the report been modified which already clearly stated that it does not meet the minimum requirements. And, by the way, we've also talked about the commitment to industrial development. And we can see how instead of betting on the expansion of Castineiras, a consolidated park with high demand for soil, you once again bet on the industrial park of the Cross of Maceira, on protected forest land, a proposal that must be developed from scratch, excessively expensive and environmentally aggressive, that counts on the opposition of the majority owner, the Mountain Council, and the opposite reports of the Directorate-General of Urbanism and the Directorate-General of Montes. Now yes, the only thing that counts is with the support of the current mayor, who is one of the landowners and is the main promoter. These are the commitments that the People's Party maintains with Morrazo. But what I would also like to remind you is your responsibility in the lurch in which the companies of the port of Marín have been put in by the judgement that annuls the final approval of the special plan and declares illegal the filling works; work carried out by decision of persons and institutions linked to the People's Party, such as the holder of that COTOP, Alberto Núñez, or the president of the deputy or Mrs. María Ramallo...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u311	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u312	...from the president of the Harbour Authority and today the current mayor of Marín. So a few examples to really stage the great commitment of the People's Party to Mortgage, which is an empty commitment that every time the elections arrive, will be staged. And now when they get back, they'll come back with the same promises as they steal us in the electric fare, drive us out of the sea, or force our children to take the suitcase to escape from a country that's being deserted, naked and frustrated because they're unable to face their present. This is the balance that the popular government leaves in Morrazo, a region with no confidence in itself and totally intoxicated with misleading advertising.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u313	Thank you, Mr. Rhodes, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u314	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u315	For the Parliamentary Group of the Gaga de Left Alternative, Mr Fajardo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u316	Good night to all again. The truth is, once such proposals have arrived at this plenary session, it is clear that municipal campaigns are being opened throughout the country; not only by visits to promise what was promised on other occasions by Ethel Vázquez to the Morrazo peninsula, but also by revealing a certain tufo of electoralism the position of the Socialist Party that unfolds in this proposal. We believe that the time is coming for people to understand that no municipal elections can be made the way they've done their entire life. Here it seems that people are going to vote thinking that they're fixing their headlights, their bach, their access. The problem is that here we are playing life and, therefore, municipal elections have to be thought of as the key to transforming the country and solving people's real problems, which are unemployment, housing, access to public health, education. And that's why we, even though we share the proposal, are going to nuance some questions. Of course, we agree with the need to intervene on the Morrazo corridor, but not so much as agree with its deployment, because there are obvious dangers about the environmental and landscape impact of this work. But yes, of course, we have to intervene with a serious safety plan that ensures that people don't play their lives every time they use that corridor. Similarly, we agree to obtain the title of National 554 and improve access to Vilaboa, AP-9 and Morrazo itself from that track. We are, of course, as could not be otherwise, in accordance with the commitments made on the health centres of Aldan, Marin and Moaña. But, of course, we also agree with the necessary updating and improvement of public schools. But it's a situation that has to do with where money is spent from the People's Party. The country's public schools, the Morrazo's, are in a dire situation. Meanwhile, we rarely see the schools arranged claiming improvements in their facilities, what a chance! Because there's a very important drainage towards concerted education, leaving public education in a situation that is certainly disastrous. Therefore, we, who believe in democratic participation, believe that what citizenship has to do is empower itself and decide what are the fundamental issues for this region. And, of course, one of the fundamental issues for Morrazo's territory is access to employment, the possibility that its people will earn their lives as they have always earned it, in the sea, that they are being driven out to hundreds, thousands, of that kind of work by the actions of the People's Party in that respect. But also the sanitation of the two laughs that affect it, and, above all – and here it was said a little ago – the political actions that put together municipalities like Marin's in a first order problem. Because here, since the institutions, absolutely illegal things have been done and now the ones that will pay them are the companies installed there in good faith or the workers who work in those companies in the illegal port of Marin. So we're not about to write a letter to the Magi. It's time to prioritize and tell people that what they need are jobs, and what they need is safety, health and education. And from that moment on, let's talk about those issues. So, from AGE we're going to support the proposal, but we've moved that need that, before we opened the Morrazo corridor... by the way, a work already committed for too many years ago, when I worked and had trade union responsibilities with regard to the conservation of that route, that they had already committed themselves to breaking it up at that time and there was already concern in the maintenance people about their work situation in the future, and today, three years after that moment, we're still in the same situation. So we're in need of a security action on that track. But what we have to first consider is that there is no need to increase the flow of vehicles towards that region. What this region needs is quality public transport. And when we say public transport we say intermodal transport, improve river transport, improve rail transport connections with educational centres, hospitals and all those places where people usually move from that region when they use river transport. It's not the time to increase road transport, it's time to take public transport seriously and not make absolutely questions towards the gallery, like the new and last motions approved in many of the municipalities of the district to talk about that metropolitan transport which has nothing to do with efficient metropolitan transport, which would be using the train, using the vicinity and using maritime transport. We therefore agree on most of the initiatives at this moment, but we believe that it should be citizenship at Morrazo, through citizen empowerment, who decides how and when things are done, and, above all, that it is once and for all that debate about whether or not it is necessary to unfold the way of Morrazo and whether or not it is necessary to prioritize security over an investment that can end with one of the beauties of our country if we continue to affect landscape and environmentally this region. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u317	Thank you, Mr. Fajardo. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr. Gómez Alonso. Give Mr. Gómez Alonso a voice, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u318	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mrs Gallego, we are glad from the People's Parliamentary Group that you are defending this initiative today with a positive, happy, optimistic state of mind. We are pleased because you have reiterated the announcements made yesterday by the Environmental Adviser at the Town Hall in Cangas, and we also assume that, after the brilliant political discourse you launched here today – which I suppose will be your presentation screen in the precipice of these municipalities – it would be very good for you. Then she'll be twice as happy. The problem, Mrs Gallego, is that this is not a political rally, this is a parliamentary debate. So what you say is going to be the subject of replicas by all political formations. The representative of the AGE told him perfectly: this is a batburrillo of demands in the middle of the electoral prepackage. And you, within these parliamentary replies, would very well have answered three very clear questions. The first of the questions we want to ask you, Mrs. Gallego, is: on December 3, 2005, when you put into service the Morrazo corridor, did you serve as advisor to the two-party government? Yes, you were. I suppose the day before, on December 2nd, you, as a two-party Government Fisheries Advisor, would attend the inauguration of the post in service to the Morrazo corridor. You're coming, aren't you? Yes. So, Counsellor, can you explain to us how, after four years of being on the Council of the Galician Council of a two-party government, you weren't able to influence your party neither your president nor your partner in charge of public works to even bid for the building projects of the Morrazo corridor? Tell him, because he has no explanation. And then you ask for coherence from other Members who are here. You tell me, Mrs Gallego, how it is possible that in 2006 they would spend 141,000 euros on the Morrazo corridor; in 2007, 70,000; in 2008, 300,000; and in 2009, 114,000 euros, and that they would not spend any of these euros on the drafting of the construction project. And you then say that we're taking the hair of Morrazo's neighbours, when we in 2005 assigned 41 million euros to finish the Morrazo corridor of a total of 96. And there is no doubt that the Morrazo corridor was made thanks to the social demand of the neighbors of the Morrazo peninsula, led by what is currently the mayor of Cangas, of which Mrs. Pérez is mayor lieutenant, Mr. Sotelo. So when you talk about coherence, what was your coherence in government? None. And do you know why he had no consistency in the government? Because you approved in the Bipartisan Government Council Chamber a road management plan in which you had planned to serve the Morrazo corridor in 2020. And there's the document of that road-director plan. In 2020, and you voted in favour of it. So then don't come here appealing to the conscience of other Members who have institutional responsibility and are consistent with what they are doing. And Mrs. Gallego says in all light, "It's just that you have enough economic resources to execute it." Home!, if we compare the year 2014 – it was the last budget that did not decrease – compared to the year 2015, minus 675 million euros. If that seems to you a smaller amount... minus 675 million euros. Forms have been sought to finance public-private collaboration. When the initial adjudication of the Morrazo corridor – you remembered it – was deserted because the only company that came forward anticipates a 28% change in the adjudication. Here we brought an initiative to unlock the Morrazo corridor in three parts to facilitate its financing and you voted against it, and it's neighbour to that bar. He already threw stones at the Morrazo corridor when he was a fisheries advisor, and now he did it as an attached spokesman for his Socialist Parliamentary Group. And, man! Mrs. Gallego, the schedule is perfectly clear. Estimate of the drafting of the construction project of the third one, Rande-Link Domaio: early 2015. It's completed, 20 million euros. Mr. Rhodas said, "Fuck it!, just three miles." Well it costs 20 million euros, Mr. Wheels' "fucking command" costs 20 million euros. Almost nothing! In the second quarter of 2015 will be drafted the third link Domaio-Link of the Fraga. And in the second trimester of 2015 it's going to be written about the bond of the Fraga with the exit to Cangas. The public utility decree of this link to be adjudicated...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u319	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u320	...will stay in the second quarter of 2011. And the works will start early in 2016, but with a difference, Mrs. Gallego: with own funds. And with another difference, Mrs Gallego: that in this case, the difference from what happened to the corridor, we will start the works of the hallway unfold and we will inaugurate the works of what will be the future highway of the Morrazo. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u321	Thank you, Mr. Gómez Alonso. For the author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u322	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I announce that I will not accept the amendment that they present to me, because we obviously do not agree. We have already put it here in various votes in the amendments to the budgets and in the motions for a resolution of the debates in the state of Autonomy. What we want is for the corridor to open. We are aware of the difficulties in the construction of that corridor, of the fertilizers produced, of all the damage caused. We have brought it here to this Parliament on thousands of occasions, and in all of them the People's Party has always refused to look for other solutions. But we're not going to accept that amendment. I understand that there is a different positioning of other groups. We want to be a compromise from the People's Party. Look, Mr Alonso, I regret once again that, after having brought these initiatives here on many occasions these six years, none of the Members and Members of the People's Parliamentary Group who support the Faijóo Government of the area, of the region, dare give the reply here. Because it would be fair, if they're so convinced that what the People's Party is doing is good for the Morrazo district, because they should be able to honestly defend their position here. The truth is, the People's Party has brought nothing to the Morrazo region in these six years. Because, look, out of the 23.9 million euros invested in the Morrazo region in 2009, with the budgets made by Mr. Touriño's last government, we went to the few 3 million euros invested in the Morrazo region with Mr. Feijóo in 2015. From making port infrastructures in Cangas, Bueu and Moaña with Mr. Touriño, we went to nothing with Mr. Feijóo. To commit and initiate any project for the supply of Vigo water to Mr. Touriño's Morrace County, we have moved on to a monumental chapouza by Mr. Feijóo, who still today, as Mr. Rodas said, is not set in motion. What Mr. Feijóo does is one thing, yes: trying to put a wind park on Black Stones, with which all the neighbors of the Morrazo district are at odds, that there are unanimous plenary agreements, including those of their group, lords of the People's Party, who voted against. And you're still in the process of environmental assessment to give you ahead of time, to destroy landscapedly the hill of the Morrazo region that gives the Vigo stream, which, as you know, is one of the laughingstocks that has the greatest impact on tourism. What Mr. Feijóo does in the Morrazo district is to cut down professionals in health centers, not to build the health centers we speak of before and not to invest in anything that has to do with the powers of the Galician Union. That's what Mr. Feijóo does in Morrazo. And look, Mr. Mayor of Cangas, Mr. Mayor of Moaña, who are from the People's Party, is neither the first nor the second nor the third time that they have to approve initiatives in the full of their local corporations demanding the Council of Galicia to invest in the Morrazo district, and making statements in the media putting the accumulated six-year delay in the collapse of the Morrazo corridor. As much as you come here to tell lies, because what you said about the investments of the Morrazo corridor...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u323	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u324	...with regard to the Government Tourin is merely a lie, Mr. Alejandro Alonso. And if not, you go to the Official Journal of Galicia on February 28, 2008, or to the Official Journal of Galicia on July 2008, and to the Official Journal of Galicia on February 26, 2008, and you will see the budgets and deadlines. [[Murmurs.]] You have breached each and every one of them, because you have no commitment to the Morrazo district beyond that every election period tries to deceive us. And we won't be fooled, Mr. Gómez Alonso.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-10-DSPG096.u325	Thank you, Mrs Gallego. We'll hold the session until tomorrow at ten in the morning.
