ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG119.u1	The session is open. The agenda is published in the Official Gazette of the Parliament of Galicia, so it is not read. Mrs Concepción Burgo has justified her inattentiveness. And we're on the agenda, with point one. Debate and vote on the non-financial expenditure limit of the Autonomous Community of Galicia for the year 2016, as referred to in Article 12 of Law 2/2011 of 16 June 2011 on budgetary discipline and financial sustainability
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG119.u2	The Council of Galicia, on 31 July 2015, agreed on the non-financial expenditure limit of the budgets of the Autonomous Community of Galicia for 2016, which is fixed at 8,873 million euros, in accordance with Article 12 of Law 2/2011, of 16 June, of budgetary discipline and financial sustainability, referred to this House for approval in conjunction with the financial-fiscal strategy report referred to in Article 11.2 of that Act. Before the vote, the Government has a round for its presentation and will then be granted a round for each of the parliamentary groups. You have the floor, for the presentation, Mr. Valeriano Martínez García.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG119.u3	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good afternoon, gentlemen. I compare today before Parliament to present the non-financial expenditure limit for 2016, approved last Friday by the Council of the Council of Galicia, in accordance with Article 12 of the Law on budgetary discipline and financial sustainability. With this, it's been five consecutive years that takes the Government of Greece – the first autonomous executive who approved it by law – presenting the spending ceiling for next year in the House. With this measure, the Government makes it easier for parliamentary groups to know, with almost three months ahead of what was usual until 2011, the general framework in which the accounts will be drawn up for the next financial year 2016. In this way, Parliament has the opportunity to debate three times on the process of drawing up budgets: one on the basis of the approval of the expenditure ceiling; the other on the whole debate of the Budget Bill; and the third on the final one, when the accounts are approved. The Government of Greece is committed to maximum transparency in the preparation of its annual accounts, since Galicia is one of the few communities that, in addition to approving the Executive's spending ceiling, seeks authorization from the Autonomous Chamber. But fortunately, the presentation of this expenditure ceiling is going on in a much more favourable economic setting than in previous years and with even better forecasts for the next exercise. One year ago, because of the 2015 spending ceiling presentation, we'd already recover positive growth rates, after a prolonged recession, but we still had a weak growth. Twelve months later, the last data we have – from the first quarter of this year – is the best since 2007. And all the indicators we know point to that this growth will intensify, quarter by quarter, during this exercise. So, I can already point out to them that the GDP of the second quarter of this year, which we will know at the end of this month, will be even better than that of the first quarter, and we will already be growing at an annual rate above 2%. And the labour market is also recovering with increasing intensity in our economy. Today we know the July figures, which are very positive for Galicia, because our community is where the unemployment rate in all Spain has dropped, and the third is where social security affiliations have grown the most. As far as unemployment was concerned, he went down to Galicia in 12,690 people, that is, 5,54% – so the biggest drop in history in July – and there are 23,907 people less than a year ago, with a drop of about 10%. As for social security affiliations, they increased to 13,948 in July, and we have nearly 21,800 affiliates more than a year ago. And as I was saying to them, everything indicates that the economic situation will be gradually improving during the rest of the year, so we consider it appropriate to keep our growth forecasts for this year 2015, and we do not discard them over the rest of the exercise. So, the estimate of the German Government is that GDP this year will grow by 2%, the best data since the economic crisis. And we can also confirm that we will meet the objective of reducing 1.6 points – up to 20.1% – the unemployment rate this year. We regard this macroeconomic framework as prudent and realistic, but, despite this good evolution, we are aware that there is still a lot of work to be done, that there are many people going through difficulties and that there are still too many Greeks who want and cannot work. We can guarantee them the maximum effort of this government to, in this much more favourable economic environment, put all the instruments we have in our hands to promote policies of economic reactivation, with the objective of moving this improvement to the real economy, both of our families and of our companies. In recent years, continued budgetary restrictions have not allowed this government to carry out measures which it intended to implement. Now, with a significant increase in income, for the first time since we've been in front of the government, we think it's time to materialize them. So in the budgets for next year we will include tax reductions in a much more intense way than the selective reductions we could apply during the years of economic crisis. The increased spending capacity we will have in 2016 will also allow us to progressively return to public employees the efforts they have made in recent years. For that reason, the Galician Council already has approved legislation, in particular the Public Employment Act, and an instrument, a own fund which is provided in each budget with a finalist amount. And we will match tax reductions and improvements to public employees with the reinforcement of public services, to improve health, education and social services, and to boost new measures of economic stimulus and reactivation. In this sense, we have already announced a package of social reinforcement measures, among them that stand out: agreements with financial entities to give them an alternative to those who suffer from evictions, a check to buy school material, which about 100,000 other Greeks do not pay for their medicine, or direct help to families who have their children in a nursery or with a caretaker. And we'll continue this way. Ladies and gentlemen, the goal is to say that by 2015, being a better year than 2014, we are convinced that 2016 will also be better than 2015 because by 2016 we expect Galicia's economic growth to continue to accelerate and we already have a GDP advance of 2.4%. This improvement is supported by spending on final consumption of non-profit homes and institutions, which will increase their growth in 2016 to 2.2%, a point more than this year, both by improving employment and by increasing consumer confidence and the projected tax reduction. The spending on final consumption of public administrations will increase by 1.1%.3 tenths more than the present, since Galicia will not need to make greater adjustments to meet public deficit targets. With regard to gross capital formation, it had risen to 4%, i.e. 1,1 points more than in 2015, by the increase in public investment, and in addition to 2016 the improvement in the industrial sector, which will demand greater investment in equipment goods, the public investment that it had previously pointed out and the recovery of residential investment will facilitate this increase. As far as external demand is concerned, it will add 0.6 points to the growth of our GDP, 9 tenths more than the previous year. This approach will result in an increase in exports of 4.6%, 3.5 points more than in the previous year, and an increase in imports of 3.4%, which is higher than 1.8 points. The growth of Spanish domestic demand will be very positive for our exports, as well as for the rest of the communities. Sales behavior to the rest of the world will remain at high levels thanks to the economic recovery of world growth and the depreciation of the euro. As regards imports, the increase in investment in equipment, motivated by both favourable financial conditions and the need to expand assistant capital, will lead to an increase in the importance of 3.4 % in 2016. In 2016 the increase in exports will be greater than in 2015 by 4.9%, resulting from both the recovery of international trade and the improvement of demand with the rest of Spain. Imports will also grow more than in 2015, 1.1 points, up to 4.6, for recovery of domestic demand and activity. And as far as the unemployment rate is concerned, it will fall to 18.3, 1.8 points below the forecast for this year. Ladies and gentlemen, 2016 will be an exercise in which fiscal consolidation will continue and the progressive reduction of the public deficit target, in this case in 4 tenths, going from 0.7% in 215 to 0.3% in 2016, more than 229 million euros, which will also make it less and less dependent on debt. In 2016 we will have less than half the need for indebtedness than in this exercise. I insist that the two premises – on the one hand, the gradual reduction of the deficit, and, on the other hand, the smallest dependence on indebtedness – are two objectives of the Greek Government that we have seen with much effort year by year, and the result is that Galicia today is the autonomous community that has greater stability throughout the state. By looking back, we can reaffirm that Galicia has taken the right path. Control of public deficit, rigor, prudence, realism and institutional loyalty have led this community to be an example of compliance with budgetary stability and debt control. Galicia has suffered less economic recession during the years of the crisis, and the goal now is to have a healthy and sustainable economic growth in time. Galicia owes less than the average. Galicia was one of the only four communities that met the target approved in 2014, and is the third with the lowest deficit in the last five years, 3.5 points below the average of the communities. Less debt than half. Galicia is the autonomy that best controls its public debt and the one that has increased the least since 2008. We have a 4.5 point differential on the average of Spain, which is 4.9 points if we had taken into account public enterprises. And he pays better than the average. In the last available data, corresponding to the month of May, Galicia pays three times more aggressively, which is to pay one month before the average according to the data of the Ministry of Trade. Reiterate: next year will be an exercise in which economic recovery will be intensified, with greater growth and job creation. Compliance with the deficit objective has enabled the financial situation to be remedied and to save a large volume of debt and financial expenditure to the Autonomous Community. Once we're already demonstrating with facts that we're able to reconcile deficit reduction and growth, the challenge for 2016 is only to deepen this trend: to have less deficit and to achieve greater growth. In this scenario we draw up the Community's non-financial expenditure limit for 2016. To that end, and as is usual, we have made a projection of the expected revenue for the next year, also taking into account the national accounting adjustments that can reduce the budgetary result and taking into account the target or capacity or need for funding approved by the Fiscal and Financial Policy Council of 0.3% of GDP. As for non-financial revenues, about 80% of them come from the system of self-financing, which increases by EUR 503 million to EUR 6,736 million. For their part, the finalist transfers of other administrations, basically from the General Administration of the State and European funds, account for nearly 12% of total income. The finalist revenues of the General Government of the State are stable after a continuing downward trend has been shown in recent years. The same is true of the Interterritorial Compensation Fund, which is linked to a percentage of the expenditure of the new work that appears in the state's general budgets, which increases in something more than 3 million euros. The new Community Strategic Framework 2014-2020 implies the development of regional operational programmes for the Structural Funds, both the ERDF and the ESF, the EAFRD and the European Youth Initiative managed by the Autonomous Community, to which the funds devoted to cooperation should be added. The financial years taken into account for the next financial year also seek to push the launch of the new operational programmes, approved by the European Commission with some delay. These operational programmes incorporate a multiannual financial agenda, which is implemented in multiannual appropriations provided for in the scenario. The new programming will change the share of European funds in Galicia's revenue basket to almost one percentage point. It will reach up to 2020 funding for EUR 883 million in the ERDF, EUR 313 million in the ESF, EUR 890 million in the EAFRD, EUR 371 million in the GEF, and EUR 49 million in the Youth Employment Programme, all managed by the Autonomous Community. With regard to the non-financial own resources of the Autonomous Community, both own taxes and capital prices and incomes, by 2016 will achieve a further 10% of the non-financial revenue budgeted. The evolution we anticipate is stable and depends to a large extent on the evolution of the tax yielded, both on the tax on capital transmissions and documented legal acts as well as on the evolution of real estate markets...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG119.u4	Go finish, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG119.u5	...about everything, and also the tax of successions and prayers. The housing market, especially what reaches the house used, after stabilized since the end of 2014 begins a phase of growth, moderate but continuous. The increase in housing demand, facilitated by an improvement in credit conditions, must collaborate to curb, and even encourage improvements in the valuations of real estate assets, thereby widening taxable bases, both of the tax on capital transmissions and documented legal acts, as well as the tax on successions and prayers. In total, the financial income for next year will amount to EUR 8.684 million, which means a rise of 7.4%, i.e. a total of EUR 608 million. To these 8,684 million euros in non-financial income we have to add the 174 million euros as a result of 0.3% deficit, and we have to add another 15 million in positive adjustments in terms of national accounting. With this, the expenditure ceiling for 2016 will be set at 8,873 million euros, i.e. 5,2 % higher than the expenditure ceiling for 2015. So after two years with a stabilized spending capacity for the first time since we have a spending ceiling, we have achieved a significant increase of it, and we do so despite being reducing the public deficit in a constant and progressive way. In debt, in 2016 we will also adjust to the target of 18.1 % of GDP, and we will reduce – as mentioned above – our debt dependence to 229 million euros without losing spending capacity, due, of course, to improved income. So we will reduce our use of indebtedness by more than half, and we will continue to maintain a debt ratio significantly lower than the average of the autonomous communities. Furthermore, Galicia not only fulfilled its public deficit commitments and not only kept control of its indebtedness, but also located among the autonomous communities that kept a greater investment effort throughout the economic crisis. Galicia is the fourth autonomous community of common regime with a greater investment effort per capita in the period 2009-2014. In short, we present to the House today a realistic and ambitious expenditure ceiling, with more income and less debt; with greater spending capacity since we made this limit; with 2.4% growth forecasts – the highest since before the crisis – and with an estimate of further lowering the unemployment rate by almost 2 points. We'll use this higher spending capacity to make a much more intense tax reduction. We will continue to strengthen public services with measures to improve health, education and social services. We will push new economic reactivation measures to move this economic improvement to families and businesses, and we will return to public employees the efforts made during the crisis. Ladies and gentlemen, Galicia and its Government have been responsible during the economic crisis, and we will remain responsible during the economic recovery. I therefore expect your support for this spending ceiling for 2016. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG119.u6	Thank you very much. Round of parliamentary groups. The Joint Group has the floor to Mrs. Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG119.u7	Thank you, President. Good afternoon to all and to all. One more year we are in the debate on the expenditure ceiling, and before we begin we know the result: the enthusiastic submission of the Galician People's Party to the Government of the State and the financial oligopolie supported in the majority of the mechanics that you still have in this House, which will make it possible to approve the corset that others have agreed to impose on us. One more year of budget cuts and anemia for everything, except for the debt service. One more year of impoverishment for our country and suffering for the majority of society: unemployment, privatization of public services, extreme work insecurity, emigration, depopulation, increase of inequalities, gender violence. One more year I count with hope as one less year, and I hope this one will be the last. If we are able to act generously, if we know how to cooperate and contribute to a unit of action that puts people's interests ahead of supporters or groups, it is possible to defeat the bipartisanism that, by the way, they have just staged on this romantic honeymoon, where the Board of Auditors and the Council of Radio-Television Galega were distributed while they were excluded from the rest of the parliamentary groups. Someone might think that what I'm saying has little to do with the spending ceiling, which is relevant to talking about the economic environment. I'd like to thank the president and counsellor for speaking down. Thank you. [[Protests.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG119.u8	Quiet, please. Continue, Mrs. Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG119.u9	They would say that the relevant thing is to talk about the economic environment, price developments, the international environment of the Greek economy, the state economy situation, the macroeconomic scenario and the EUR 438 million that announce that it will increase the 2016 budget spending limit. It is EUR 8,873 million for 2016, compared to EUR 8,435 of 2015. Well, I understand they're wrong, the reasons, no matter how well-founded they are, we've been checking that in this House they're no use because they always drown in the sectarian rigidity of the People's Party and now also their PSOE boyfriends again. It soon took some to recast in the interests of people, with regard to pluralism and all those words that remain so well at the partisan conferences and television dishes! The citizen demonstration of July 25 showed that we can walk together to make the Greek nation visible and forcefully visible, which has also shown to be self-conscious, and to claim to be a political subject at the same level as the other nations of the State, including Spain. The right to decide everything is true democracy, and that's what's at stake. Individual rights and collective rights as a nation, and real democracy, are truly important. The expenditure ceiling and economic policies of the Union and the Government of Madrid are a consequence of democracy kidnapped by monopolies and financial power. It is not possible to rescue democracy and people from an institution like this Parliament, kidnapped by a party that cheated elections with illegal funding and buying wills with public funds. So today we are fulfilling the obliged procedure for Parliament to approve the expenditure limit, but they do not even leave the possibility to amend it. It doesn't make sense for me to repeat that the deficit limit imposed on Galicia is part of the process of re-centralisation in which Mr. Rajoy's entire legislation has been committed to, with the active and enthusiastic collaboration of Mr. Núñez Feijóo. It doesn't make any sense to repeat that from the spending ceiling that they're going to approve today, there are some budgets that you know – and citizenship knows – that they're going to continue to produce pain, suffering and poverty, they won't serve to increase the Greek economy, and they're only going to serve the financial speculators or to feed the corruption plots around the PP here and Madrid. Citizenship doesn't drink with its propaganda anymore. A few months ago it was a perception of many people, but after the battalion they were given in the municipal elections, it's already a proven fact that citizenship doesn't believe in their stories and lies like those that the councilman just told today. The people know the reality, the reality of which is reflected in the expenditure ceiling and in the reality of the evolution of the Greek economy. The small improvement in macroeconomic data is based on labour precariousness, the drop in oil prices, the rise in indirect taxes – mainly VAT –, the privatization of public services and the cuts in the Greek administration, while they announce a download of the IRPF, when it should be a formula for having funds, with a progressive and fair IRPF. We reiterate the mistake of basing the creation of wealth in the construction and service sectors, while our strategic sectors, such as naval, agriculture, livestock, renewable energy, fishing, textile and food industry, continue to lose jobs and competitiveness. It is also known to the people that the entire speech about the increase in exports as a result of Mr. Feijóo's negotiations, which advertises his multiple trips to Latin America, are nothing more than institutional propaganda that seeks votes here and there. Spain's demand increase says it's going to increase exports. It's the only thing we agree on. Galicia exports Spain because Galicia is not Spain. The document itself recognises that the obligation of budgetary stability limits the possibility of growth in the economy, but remains the first objective – if not the only one – of the German and state governments. Thus, starting from an unemployment rate of 20,1 % in 2015, the target seems to be to reach 18,3 % and 16,5 % in 2016 and 2017 respectively, based on similar success in the loss of active population. That's why their so-publicized recovery is not so much for the majority of society, since it is based on Troika's taxes: speed up the reduction of deficit and debt, advance in compensation and privatization in health care, complete box privatizations, condition wages to productivity depending on the sector and company, greater control over social benefits and encourage emigration. It's not possible to speak of progress, of future progress, of population recovery, starting from these premises, which are all driven to increase the social divide, condemning poverty to the majority of society. That's why you can't believe your propaganda, because you can't sell democracy when you rule from Germany and from Madrid; because you can't sell that future when it's based on emigration; because you can't sell equality when the social divide increases and you keep gender inequalities; because you can't sell social well-being with poverty wages, exhausting schedules, temporary contracts and maximum flexibility, when you don't have unemployment without benefits. How could they not even think that nothing would happen, that it would have no effect on their policies of public policy for the benefit of the financial speculators and the friends of the People's Party? How can they keep insisting on the cuts and on the protection of corruption after people beat them in the past municipal elections? You're already politically dead for a citizen who doesn't believe them anymore. They're dead, and that regime they represent is rotten and keeps democracy kidnapped. 37 years ago – in 1978 – Galicia and its interests – from the Greeks and the Greeks – were left out of the constitutional debate, and we paid very much. But this will not be so, because the political forces that we support the citizen wave that wants to rescue democracy from the hands of usurpers, we will be able to unite in the defence of the interests of the Greek people. Because there is no propaganda that can make the Greeks and the Greeks forget these years of privatization of public services, the 2012 labour reform, the austere policies, the increase of social inequality, the emigration of youth, overwhelming unemployment, the precariousness of work, poverty, the attempt to murder our language. In the next elections they won't face a constellation of parties fighting a race to see who gets more points to be opposition. They'll face organised citizenship to exercise their rights. That's why, as the callous people of this year's country day demonstration have done, I'm going to shake hands with Curros Enríquez and finish with verses from the poem By union: "From our weaknesses/ the devil you won't laugh./ Let's all go together,/ Killing blind grudges;/ that in the union of the good Greeks/ state of the country you may!" Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG119.u10	Thank you very much, Mrs. Martínez. Nationalist Block Galego. Mr. Jorquera has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG119.u11	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen. Counsellor, the BNG Parliamentary Group – and I don't think it will surprise you with this advance position – will vote against the proposed non-financial expenditure limit for 2016, but, before explaining the reasons for our negative vote, let me stop a little in the background. Frankly, it is surprising that issues that have generated a lively debate in most autonomous communities are totally and absolutely obvious by their Government. You did not even alluded to them in the presentation of the proposal for a non-financial expenditure limit, starting with the meeting of the Fiscal and Financial Policy Council held on 8 July. The central government had to use its quality vote to set its deficit targets, contrary to the criteria of most autonomous communities. Only four autonomous communities voted in favour; the Galician Union was one of them, in a new example of the Government's submission of the Galician Union to the Central Government. Look, do you know what the councilor of Castile and León said, of the same political colour as her Government? I read textually: "The deficit limits are not adapted to the public spending structure that must assume autonomy, which will make it very difficult for Castile and León to meet them." And he is right, because the deficit set for all administrations is 2.8 % of GDP, and it turns out that the Central Administration reserves for itself a 2.2 % and imposes on all autonomous communities a maximum limit of 0.3 %, which will also have to be reduced to 0.1 % in 2017 to reach the zero deficit in 2018. In other words, the central state has the responsibility to manage 50% of the public expenditure, but it reserves 78% of the deficit for itself. And to autonomous communities, which manage one third of public spending, it turns out that they are imposed at a maximum limit of just over 10% of the total deficit. The consequence will be more clippings. More cuts in health care, in education, in social services, because it is the autonomous communities that take up much of the social expenditure. Do you know what the Counselor of Castile and Lion also said? "I've never understood the breakdown of the government's deficit." Well, look, we do understand you, Counselor. In the Spanish state, centralism has always been the hand of the annulment of democracy, injustice, inequality. Centralizing more power, asphyxiating autonomous communities economically, nullifying their financial autonomy, is the way of the People's Party to impose its model and to continue dismantling public services and social policies. That is why – and I follow the background you have not mentioned – Mr. Montoro intends to condition the debate of the financing system with his famous fiscal balances. According to Mr. Montoro's tax balances, Madrid is the great prejudiced by centralism. Look, honestly, Mr. Valeriano Martínez, after the data provided by the Central Government, I don't know how Mrs. Cifuentes has yet demanded independence from Madrid. Honestly, I don't understand! Look, Mr. Montoro's scales are the accounts of a real trilero. First, it includes tax balances on contributing social security, as if it did not take care of workers' contributions for years and years of work. But look, aren't there thousands and thousands of return emigrants in our country who collect tax pensions from Germany, Switzerland, returned emigrants, by the way, plundered by the central government of Mr. Montoro? Contributing Social Security cannot be included in a balance of state expenditure and income and territories. And secondly, Mr. Montoro uses a method called, a method by virtue of which the benefit of the expense, in the King's House, in the high direction of the State, in the central government's support, is divided among the different territories according to its population, because it can benefit all of us equally, regardless of where that expenditure is rooted. Look, that's the little thing if we charge as an investment in Galicia what it cost at the time of making the Channel Channel tunnel because now the Greeks can also go to England without the need to catch the ship or the plane. That's Mr. Montoro's method! Even spending in the Prado Museum, in the Eastern Palace, in the National Library, in the Royal Theatre, is partly reflected among the different territories. But, on the other hand, if we talk about the income chapter, the taxes that directly manage the state, when charging the income to the different territories, we don't take into account where the production centres are located. Finally, according to Mr. Montoro's logic, the tax on companies paying the Fenosa Union in Madrid is an income generated in Madrid, even if it is fruit of profits obtained at the cost of looting the natural resources of Galicia, our country. In short, a genuine coat of hair to present Madrid as a major contributor to solidarity and Galicia as the alleged recipient of this false state solidarity. When, if Galicia is a net recipient, Mr. Valeriano Martínez, for little progress the tax system has in the Spanish state, it is precisely because we have a impoverished economy because of our dependence. However, other studies – using rigorous methods – show that the state collected in Galicia much more than it then transfers or invests directly in our country. But look, Mr. Valeriano Martínez, the case is that other communities – at the two meetings of the Fiscal and Financial Policy Council – called for a review of the system of self-financing. The Ministry of Business itself gave deadline until July 31st – if we take note of the press news – for the communities to present their studies on the model review. So, did you present any proposals to Galician Union? With what contents? Do you think it's welcome that in a key matter for our country, the Union doesn't consult with the groups of this House, that it didn't even report? This is an example of the failure to respect this Parliament by its Government, and what is worse, the failure to respect self-government itself, the contempt of the country itself, which has the responsibility to govern. And with these background, still above all, it aims to sell itself as a success that Galicia receives 413 million euros more of self-financing in 2016, when, since the entry into force of the new model, Galicia has lost 8,000 million and the comings planned in 2016, we are back to ten years ago, Counsellor; an increase that will also have to be devoted entirely to reducing deficit and indebtedness, not investment and social expenditure. And with these background, too, Counsellor, you intend to sell us as a success that the spending limit increases to EUR 437 million, when it turns out that throughout the period it made the cuts in total amount to EUR 10 billion. Innocent question, Counsellor, don't you have to see that increase, don't you have to see this novice government bet for an expansive budget, with the fact that we're going into the election year? Innocent question, Counselor. Look, they've been announcing cycle change for several years now and announcing that the Board is characterized by its great investor effort. You said textually in your intervention that Galicia was the fourth largest-investment community by sight. I thought at first it would be a grate. Then, after much thought, I said: no, surely it's not a grate, it must be that person able to see you, because I, of course, this investor effort does not notice you, Counselor. Because look, do you know what the reality is? Recently, we have published the state of execution of the Union's budgets for 2014, and while the execution exceeds 90%, the real investment execution does not reach 72%, and the execution of capital transfers does not reach 68%. Counselor, the problem is that your ads are not credible; that's the problem. In the instructions prepared by the Business Council to prepare budgets for 2016, you announce that they will enhance smart growth by modernizing the productive fabric. And we asked ourselves, Counselor: How? watching as spectators to the loss of the leading Galician company in the telecommunications issue, how did the Galician Union do? Attending as a spectator for the sale of R? Running only 64.1% of the budgeted by the Swedish Research, Development and Technological Innovation Plan? By running a 40,8 % racket to support modernization, internationalisation, innovation and business productivity? You also announce, in these instructions, that they will boost renewable energy and strengthen the primary sector. And we ask: How, Counselor? With the wind sector fiasco? Penetrating or self-consumption? Or crossing arms in the face of the threat of ruin in our dairy sector? And you now announce that they will prioritize the fight against inequality. Look, as we've already told the president himself to accompany you: Tarde has fallen, gentlemen of Galician Union! Tarde's been crying! They read the memory of Galicia's economic and social situation drawn up by the ESC. The reality, Counselor, is that you are indeed right.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG119.u12	It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG119.u13	Galicia is in the head of deficit control, it's true, she's right. But our country is on the verge of growth, and with the policies of its Government we will continue on the same path. That is why we are going to vote against the proposed expenditure limit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG119.u14	Thank you very much. Parliamentary Group of the Left Galician Alternative. You have the word of Mrs. Yolanda Díaz Pérez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG119.u15	Good afternoon, Counselor. I suppose, Counselor, that you read the reports published in this country; in particular the report just published by the coordinator of the Galician Economic Forum, the second of the reports. I suppose, I assume, that you come here and that what you just said here is nothing more than the result of that political cycle that if it is stated in the report that we are going to vote today, which is actually what we are and justifying what you have just reflected here. I say this because this report rejects part of what you are programmed to repeat, like Goebbels, over and over again about the economic situation in our country. What you're saying – I know it perfectly and then I'm going to talk about it – is absolutely false. But before I talk about the data you've talked about, I want to talk about Galician spending ceiling law, just because, as you know, from the Alternative Left Galician we fight the very concept of the spending ceiling. And, more importantly, we announced that as soon as the Government of Galicia is changed and we enter the Moncloa to change policies as well, we will undoubtedly repeal the Law of Galicia's spending ceiling and Madrid's. And you know why? And you know why? [[Murmurs.]] Don't worry, Mr. President, don't get nervous, Mr. President... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG119.u16	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG119.u17	Calm down, behave. [[Laughter]] And you know why? Because it's absolutely unnecessary. All you're doing is what the norm says, and I want to read this rule. What the norm says is that it is the fundamental instrument for incorporating budgetary discipline with the purpose justly – and I read literally – of establishing a non-financial expenditure limit that allows us to use those extraordinary revenues to amortize debt. What does that mean? The only thing you want to say to the Greeks and to the Greeks is that if, as you say and as you reflect the report, there are new incomes, those same incomes would have to be directed immediately to the bank and not to provide public services such as health, dependency or education. Yes, Counsellor, that is their neoliberal fundamentalism, and that of the President of Galician Union, in which I also add myself to saying that they are indeed champions of the zero deficit, without any doubt. And especially because that's the deliberate strategy to appease workers and workers, to demolish quality jobs, and above all to impoverish this country, which is exactly what they're doing. It's no less than transferring Article 135 to different autonomous communities. Indeed, we are in the dictatorship of creditors, that is what you are, vassals that are at the service of creditors – ultimately of the bank – and above all of Germany's vassals. But I'm going to talk to you, if you want – just because we need to talk about the European Union and because we are fighting this European Union model where you frame this policy of the law on the roof of public spending – because just a man I suppose well known to you, Minion Herrero, who spoke of the "Vichy effect" – Minion heir, People's Alliance. There's an author, Professor Manolo Monereo, who, just taking those words from Herrero de Minion, has remedied the Vichy effect and thought about what we're living today, which is what he calls "Vichy Global." And the global Vichy is nothing more than what you're using, the austerity policies, what they're using in the crisis, which is just to do the same thing as the government of Vichy: to get four fundamental goals that I want to report. The first one is to hit the left, which is what we are living in Greece today. The second of them, killing the social and labor rights that have been achieved. People's and workers' classes are also suffering from their policies. The third of them is to put an end to class unions. And Professor Monereo finally says that their fourth is to end republicanism, not as a form of state, but as republicanism as democratic values. And actually, we're in global Vichy, we're all servants thanks to their policies, and you're footmans at the service of the big bank. And, indeed, we are at a time when you say it, and it says about the work that you have stated today: there is no way out, Counselor. There is a book I suppose you will also read, which I recommend to you, and which has just been published recently, which is entitled Against the Troika, of two authors, a Social Democratic – I assure you also known by you – a very relevant man who has been Secretary of Finance with the former Minister of Finance, Mr. Lafontaine, who is called, as you know, Heiner Flassbeck, and their second is also known, is a Marxist economist, Lapavits Coast, who rightly of what they talk about is an impossible triad. They say that in this system of the European Union – which directly commits to the Law on the ceiling that you defend to death – it is impossible to take three questions forward. The first one is that it is essential to restructure the debt, which is essential. All economists, let's even say that Orthodox people, say it's impossible to follow this path unless they want to end up with the Greek people definitely. No doubt about it, they're doing it. The second is the necessary exit from austerity. You follow this rule, despite what we're going to talk about later, just in the doctrine of austerity. Thirdly, the necessary democratization of treaties. You work for the bank. But I, Counselor, want to fight some of the issues you've talked about here, and then I want to ask you some questions. First of all, it's false what you're saying, it's false. It's not fake that we're growing up, it's fake that we're growing up like you're saying. And I want to ask you a few questions. The first one is: why is this graph published by INE Galicia in the last growth position, exactly at 0.5%? In the first quarter of 2015, Counsellor, we are at 0.9%, growing three times less than the state average. And I'm telling you, of course, by amending what you say, and above all Mr. Feijóo, is that it is false that Galicia goes better than the State half. Why do we grow less than the state average – which says very well the report of the Galician Economic Forum –? That team of economists says exactly that right now we are the second autonomous community that grows in line, less than the average of the rest of the Spanish state communities. Secondly, why do we also have a negative differential in the unemployment rate and also in the employment rate? Thirdly, why do we continue to lose active population in a galloping rhythm? Fourth, don't lie anymore. When you got here we were over 1 million, exactly 1,043,000 affiliates and members of Social Security, Counsellor. Do you know how much we're doing today? In 943,000, in bad condition, with bad quotes and contracts – of which I am not going to talk to you because I have no time – absolutely precarious, Counselor. That this is exactly what you are doing, they practice these policies to wisdom, because what we are dealing with here is to practice social dumping, what it is about changing the social, economic and cultural model of this country, what it is about impoverishing the working class, what it is about having this which we have, what you haven't talked about. And what we have in Galicia, and say the Tax Agency, is that 20% of the workers and workers in this country are poor despite being incorporated into the labour market, and that we have 69,000 employees in this country who receive 410 euros a month gross. This is what we have in this country, what you, Counselor, don't want to talk about. This is the reality, and I'd like you to answer why we're going worse than the average, Counselor. And I also want to denounce some questions... [[Murmurs.]] The Counsellor seems to be very kind to you with this data, which, as you well know, I'm inventing. The second question, Counsellor, of course, is the absolute submission of the Council of Galicia to the State. Regretably, what they did at the Fiscal and Financial Policy Council. Sorry! I want you to explain also, as a Welshman, and as the Greeks who will be listening to us, why the Spanish State affects itself eight times more in the public deficit than the autonomous communities, why Galicia has to have only that target 0.3%, when you know that the competences of health and education are autonomous. Explain why, because you have to convince me that what you're doing is absolutely right. And what they're doing is a barbarity. Tell me why eight times more the Spanish State, and the autonomous communities 0.3%. And to finish, Counselor, our economists, the team we work with -- and ourselves -- we have some doubts. There is opacity in all the management that you are practicing – you know, the People's Party – as far as spending is concerned, and particularly the budget debate. Not that I say it, is that you may be seeing perfectly that the first time in the history of Spanish democracy that even a press conference is not conducted to explain state budgets or to publish the real data of what has been agreed with autonomous communities. I'll ask you an honest question, so you can explain. You assume that the increase in the expenditure ceiling for Galicia is 5.2%. We think there's a trap. Yeah, and I'm going to read you what Montoro says, I'm not telling you. Maybe our economists are clumsy, or maybe we're misinformed. However, this is what Montoro says, I don't know if he knows much or little, I read it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG119.u18	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG119.u19	Finished, Madam President. Di Montoro: "The report of the situation accompanying this agreement of the Council of Ministers sets the reference rate for the growth of the medium-term gross domestic product of the Spanish economy". And it goes on to say, "The variation in nominal computational expenditure of the Central Administration, autonomous communities and local corporations cannot exceed the so-called reference rate in this period," and the organic law of stability and the Stability and Growth Pact, the rate fixed for this year, Counsellor, and imperatively, of 1.8%. I also want, without prejudice to that breakdown that you have made, that you explain to me and that you tell the truth to the Greeks and to the Greeks, because surely – and finished – this limit is imperative for you too. And what is really going to happen, surely, is that what goes beyond that is going to be derived, as implied by the law – in the law itself, in article 30 – to pay public debt. Yes, we are in front of a president who is the true champion of debt, the most expensive president in history, 10 billion euros. Nothing else, and we'll vote against it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG119.u20	Thank you very much. For the Socialist Group, Mr. González Santín.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG119.u21	Thank you, President. Last Wednesday, the Fiscal and Financial Policy Council imposes on autonomous communities their public deficit limit criteria, in particular, imposes the same deficit – 0.3% of GDP – on all communities. And I say I impose, because ten of the communities voted against this deficit, only the communities governed by the People's Party who voted in favour of this 0.3% fixed by the Government. The endless acceptance of this deficit, in addition to involving a loss of self-government in Galicia, will imply a decline in public services provided by our community. On Friday, the Board approved the spending limit, which was increasing over last year, and non-financial expenditure could reach EUR 8,873 million in 2016. This rise I have to say that we like it, but it seems quite frankly insufficient to meet the challenges Galicia has in 2016 and, more so, when we spent six years with restrictive budgets that implied that year after year the citizens of Greece had to dispense with many public services that they counted on. Today we are not here to discuss the expenditure ceiling, but to ratify the expenditure ceiling approved by the Government of Galicia. Nor is it understood on the part of this parliamentary group that the Galician Council does not defend in the Tax and Finance Policy Council that Galicia has the same capacity to deal with deficits as the State. As you know, out of the four pillars of the welfare state, Galicia competes in three. I'm talking about education, social services and health. By the way, a health care that the counselor himself recognized that it was unsustainable, even if it had then faded. I agree with her, with these budgets it is unstensible, but with these budgets; with others, not. On the other hand, the State only has jurisdiction on the other side of the welfare state – the Social Security – which, by the way, also has a limit of indebtedness like the autonomous communities. And, therefore, we do not understand that the State, once it defuses the deficit in Social Security, may incur a deficit of 2.2%, and that the administrations that provide essential public services and that guarantee our welfare state have a deficit limit of 0.3%, while the State has 2.2%. Not to mention the administration closest to the citizens – the municipalities – at which the limit is at 0%. Because, until now, autonomous communities have contributed fundamentally to lowering the public deficit. If in 2011 the deficit in autonomous communities was allowed to represent something more than a third of the total target for the public administrations, in particular 37.6%, in 2016 the percentage was reduced to 10.7%. The set of autonomous communities, comparing 2011 with 2016 forecast, have reduced their deficit by 90%, local administration by 100%, and state administration by only 57%. It is clear that what the Government of the State thinks about which it has to tighten its belt to meet the deficit that international bodies demand from us does not coincide with what we believe. We believe that it should be just the opposite of what is being done, and that it should not be the public services that support the adjustment. From my point of view, this is just one more step to consummating the dismantling of the welfare state, reducing the public services provided by the administrations. As of this year 2015, the new system of autonomous financing should enter into operation, with the aim of achieving greater funding for the provision of public services and improving the revenue of our public accounts. It was postponed mainly for purely electoral reasons. First, in the People's Party, such arguments prevailed over institutional arguments, or even existing legal arguments. The holding of municipal elections, much of the elections of autonomous communities, as well as the general elections of 2015, will imply that in practice there is no new funding system until 2017, several years after what would be appropriate. In addition, in 2016, a foreseeable year in which this new system will have to be negotiated, the autonomous elections in Galicia should be held. The Socialist Parliamentary Group has asked on several occasions in the current legislation – to set an example, in the debate of the state of autonomy and in the middle of May 27, 2014 – to establish a parliamentary commission specific to study the future evolution of the revenue of the financing system. It was affirmed by the People's Party of Galicia that such a commission was inaccurate, arguing that, given the imminence of the approval of the new financing system, it was already late for the creation of this commission. That was over a year ago. Today, with the approval of this spending ceiling, the road begins for the approval of the next June budgets for the 2016 fiscal year, a budget that looks like it will grow but that, however, will be rickshaw if we compare it to the 2010 fiscal year. This year 2010 was the first budget made by the Government presided over by Mr. Feijóo. The non-financial expenditure was EUR 10.210 million, i.e. 1,337 million more than the maximum that the Government of the United Nations can budget for this 2016. Previous data refers to originally planned expenditure. If we take the non-financial expenditures actually executed according to recognised obligations, if in 2010 they amounted to 10,196 million euros current, in the last exercise – the latest data closed in 2014 – they amounted to 8,137 million euros; i.e. a discount of 2,059 million euros, a 20% lower. Which also reflects clearly the harsh cuts that in the various basic services imposed on the Galician Union, and the absence of any investor impulse. Thus, of every 5 euros executed in 2010 by the Government of non-financial expenditure – basically social expenditure – 1 now disappears. Especially alarming was the low degree of execution of capital expenditure, which shows the approved accounts between 2010 and 2014. Of the EUR 10 billion that existed for this investment purpose, EUR 4 billion never came to be implemented. We're talking about 4 out of 10 euros not being executed. The Government of the Union has assumed year after year that they are advanced students because they meet the public deficit. You assumed that too here today. What they don't say is that this deficit target has become a means of becoming an end of their public policies, leaving aside what should be a priority for any government, which is nothing other than providing quality public services to contribute to the improvement of the lives of citizens. By ending their policies, the aim of the deficit is to increase poverty in Galicia, which increases inequalities in our community, to see limited services as essential as education, health or social services, and that ultimately a large majority of Greeks live worse for the benefit of a few who live far better. But the most serious of all this is that the Greeks have been making a greater effort year after year than the citizens of other communities who were not obsessed with the public deficit. This greatest effort to ensure that our community has not been indebted has not served for anything, since the Ministry of Business, led by Mr. Montoro, does not take into account this greater effort made by the autonomous fulfilling communities, imposing on the one hand a maximum level of public deficit equal for all autonomous communities – that is 0.3% – while applying a debt limit depending on the debt of each autonomous community, which in fact implies that the autonomous communities with the highest debt will have to reduce the debt as well as the autonomous communities with the least. By way of example, the Valencian Community will have to reduce its debt in 2016 to 38.2% of its GDP; in 2017, 36.8%; and in 2018, 35.3%. Compared to Galicia, this will have to make a cut of 18.1% in 2016; 17.6% in 2017; and 17% in 2018. As I told you, we don't benefit from anything we've been working on at all. I ask you, Counselor, what benefit did you report to the Greeks this sacrifice that we have made the basis of cutting down public services that the citizens of other autonomous communities have not done? What's the point of all this effort? What advantage do we have for the citizens of Greece for having tightened our belt? In the end, the state is going to match its debt targets at the expense of what we have made a greater effort, so we Greeks are going to see each other twice as badly damaged. First of all, because we had to make, after these years of severe crisis, a much greater effort than other autonomous communities. And secondly, because the Government doesn't take this effort into account earlier, and now forces us to comply just like the communities that haven't done so. Now let's not forget that we are facing a new election appointment and that the budget for 2016 is going to increase in relation to 2015 at 434 million euros. An increase in the expenditure ceiling that we hope reflects in the 2016 budget and that the non-financial expenditure actually reaches EUR 8,873 million. But it's also necessary not to happen what we're seeing in the budgets of the Board year after year: that there are splits that are then not executed at 100 percent and that, therefore, these expenses are not really spent. We have come here today to deal with a spending ceiling, but we will not do so if the basis of negotiation is that the only end of this expenditure ceiling is the objective of the deficit from social needs or from electoral opportunities. We, what we believe is that we need to negotiate a spending ceiling based on economic growth and also on the recovery of quality employment. There are too many unanswered questions in your intervention, Counselor, and repeats arguments that have been expressed in the past by your predecessor in charge. By the way, if you are right in the predictions – work on what I wish you luck – it would be the first time that the Council of Galicia succeeds. Galicia, as you know, is located in the queued van in the still light economic recovery. In the last year 2014 – the last known year – GDP in Galicia increased by 0.5%, compared to 1.4% in Spain, our least developed community and their worst behaviour. It must be remembered that the forecasts made by the Galician Union were to grow more than the set of Spain in 2014 and 2015, which did not happen. For all this, we are going to vote against this expenditure ceiling, since the 2016 budget will not be able to meet all the needs that the country has, and we invite them to reflect on some figures when drawing up the next year's budgets. And take into account the extremely unfair and increasingly precarious social conditions that, for example, tell us that 1 in 5 people in Galicia has to live or mallive with less than 375 euros a month, i.e. with half the minimum wage; that pensions – which are the lowest in all of Spain – are for a large part of the families their only source of income; or that in almost 90,000 homes in Greece have no income at all. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG119.u22	Thank you, Mr. González Santín. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr. Puy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG119.u23	Thank you very much, Mr. President. As the Councillor has already mentioned, we are in the fifth parliamentary debate on the expenditure ceiling. We were the first autonomous community that approved a law of budgetary stability that included the approval of a spending ceiling. We were also the first and, as far as I know, the only one who brings this debate to Parliament, which is always curious, because, the more we debate, the more we bring to Parliament, the more government initiatives that are not being debated in other communities, the more we are bringing to this House, the more we have kidnapped democracy, which is a conclusion that I do not sound excessively logical. Just like last year, curiously, we listened to opposition spokesmen saying that the PP is promoting the country's ruin with the spending ceiling – "strengthening the economy," said AGE's spokesman last year. This year they were a little tougher: we're tearing down the Greek economy. Or also, in the same line, the spokespersons who spoke this year and the previous one said not to share optimism about the evolution of the Greek economy for this year. There are references here, several references to World War II, Goebbels, Vichy Global. Vichy global, I think it's an authority appointment from a well-known tax regulator, self-regulatory tax. But, in any case, what is true is that I thought the country they described was Japan after the Hiroshima bomb, of which it is now exactly the anniversary. And the truth is, if I were AGE, I'd be a little careful with what I say. This year they didn't mention that we helped the bank. I suppose, after seeing the queues of the Greek retirees in the ATMs to get 50 euros, it would probably be because they realized that we didn't help the bank, but that we helped the bank depositors so they could keep taking out their money. [[Applause]] At the same time they accuse us of submitting to Madrid, but they announce that the day they enter the Moncloa will derogate from the Moncloa an autonomous law passed by this Parliament. [[Murmurs.]] Well, the truth is, Mrs Díaz, when I see you, I think that once Syriza had to split up because there was a more radical sector that is now against the agreement Greece has reached with the European Union, while a good part of Syriza is voting with the People's Party, with the Social Democratic Party, with the central parties, in favor of a rescue agreement with the European Union, I'm sure that Mr Beiras, seeing how he behaves in the votes of this House, will be like Varufakis, outside Syriza. And what I wonder is where you're going to be. [[Applause]] Because it doesn't matter whether the day you get to Moncloa and make her the minister of the Fairy has to ask a minority of the People's Party to support her in a rescue with Europe.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG119.u24	Mrs. Díaz, be quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG119.u25	But I just want to say that, as far as today's day is concerned, this catastrophe doesn't coincide with the data we just met. Today, registered unemployment has become public. In Galicia the monthly falls 5,54 % and in Spain the 1.80 %; in Galicia the annual falls 9,95 %, in Spain the 8.45 %. You have – if you ask me – quite incorrect data from Social Security. Today affiliated to Social Security in Galicia – today's data – is 957,000. There are 14,000 more because in Galicia membership of Social Security grew by 1.48%, while in Spain it grew by 0.34%.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG119.u26	Miss Díaz, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG119.u27	Although it's true that the annual membership goes a little down, because the annual affiliation grew by 2.3% in Galicia, while it grew by 3% in Spain. Today we also know that consumer confidence in Spain has grown for the first time since the crisis over 100 points – which is the positive value – that sales from large companies are rising, when they fell in 2011; wages, which fell by 2.5 % over the CPI in 2011, are growing by 1.3%. The other day, the figure was made public that in Galicia – for the first time since six years down – the weight of wages in German GDP grew, and in 2014 it was 45.1% when the previous year was 44.3%, while the wages of companies fell from 45.6% to 44.6%. Data I'm telling them, because last year you just mentioned the opposites. The stock capitalization of the small bankers who lost their assets is rising when it fell. And indeed, we are with a government that has just presented some budgets, and not like the previous government, that just before the elections what he did was forward the elections to not have to present the budgets, because that Spain was at the edge of the abyss and the party in the Government was unable to make the budgets. [[Applause]] That's what there is, and budgets include things like an investment for Galicia that exceeds 7%, which was the ideal that the Block and the Socialist Party proposed when we reformed the Statute. They propose a tax discount that in Galicia will affect more than 1,278,000 declarants, and will inject in the Welsh economy between 2015 and 2016, 444 million euros for consumption. There's more credit, there's car sales up, and at the hostel we're with figures that exceed those of the year 2010, which was the last holy year. In the period of the crisis it is true that we have lost positions with Europe, but we have not lost them with Spain. In 2008, the distance was 11.9 points and currently is 11 points in terms of per capita income. And now you just announced to the advisor that the second quarter GDP will grow above 2%, which coincides with AIREF's forecast for the whole year, and coincides with what I also predicted CEPREDE for the current year. And as you like reports, read the Funcas report, which previews for 2016 that Galicia is going to grow above the Spanish average by 3.2, while the state as a whole is going to grow by 3; which are significant growth figures that I certainly hate the catastrophe that will occur in previous debates, etc. I would also like to point out that the implementation of the initial budget for Galician Union in 2014 was 100 percent of the total non-financial operations. And this allowed, among other things, to make an investor effort. I want to tell you that the average, of the total autonomous communities in the years 2009-2014, of per capita investments was 2,291 euros, in Galicia was 3,055 euros, well above the average. Just as you are still confusing the execution of expenditure, because you incorporate the multiannual expenditure of European funds, which in Galicia are budgeted differently from other autonomous communities, but the real execution is around 100 percent. Well, in this context, it brings the Government a spending ceiling of 8,873 million euros; that is, 438 million euros more than last year, 5% growth of the expenditure ceiling. And this, with more money, leads you to deduce that there will be more cuts, when the advisor himself announced additional social policies, also raised and recovery of the purchasing power of public employees and even a boost to the productive economy. We'll see that economists are more correct, if those who say they're not going to be able to reach this spending ceiling or those who say they are. That's easily verifiable, all we have to do is wait and see if we're faced with the budget project. But indeed, as has been pointed out, the financing system is EUR 608 million plus, an increase of 7.4, and, on the other hand, non-financial expenditure falls significantly less than half, only EUR 174 million in debt. I understand, you've been amending for several years so that there's more debt and we don't approve of it, and then they say we don't want to help people. But at the same time, they've been saying that we've been the ones most indebted to each other for several years. I always ask them not to cheat because their thesis is: I'm going to owe myself more than then I renegotiate my debt, I restructure it and not pay it. [[Murmurs.]] Look, the truth is that on these issues, you have to be a little serious and, you take the variable of evolution of indebtedness in Galicia per inhabitant, per capita, per capita per capita – which is the same – by GDP, even in relation to the financial incomes, you will see that the Autonomous Community of Galicia has been exemplary within the autonomous communities, because it is the least indebted, as indeed Mr Jorquera has acknowledged, that we thank him. Mr. Jorquera, of tax balances I'm not going to talk about, I simply remind you that recently the data was made that in 2014 Galicia had a deficit, in terms of Social Security, of more than 4,000 million euros. You can play whatever you want with the tax balances, but there's no technically published tax balance that says Galicia has a tax balance other than what they all publish; it may be larger or smaller. But I think that since Galicia, playing with solidarity, especially in the field of social security, is irresponsible, I've told him several times and I know I haven't convinced him. I want to defend the scheme of sharing solidarity with the funds that involves being in the whole of a state, the Spanish State. That's why we don't see with sympathy that they escape or want to walk away from this scheme of solidarity communities that have a per capita income like Catalonia. You see it sympathetically, but that is, of course, a fundamental discrepancy. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, the case is that this spending ceiling that we are going to support is that Junta will have more resources to keep social spending shielded in health, education and social services and to make active policies to boost and reactivate the Greek economy in order to transfer economic recovery to all citizens, because we are aware that there are many workers who suffer what is called labour poverty; fortunately in Galicia less than in other autonomous communities, but that does not suit us. And that's why we are glad that this time the Government has more scope to make an expanding economic policy that will enable us to finally recover from the economic crisis that we have just suffered. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG119.u28	Thank you very much. At the end of the debate, we proceeded to the vote on the non-financial expenditure limit of the Autonomous Community of Galicia for 2016. We vote. Vote on the limit of non-financial expenditure of the Autonomous Community of Galicia in accordance with Article 12 of Law 2/2011 of 16 June 2011 on budgetary discipline and financial sustainability. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 41; votes against, 31. The voting is positive. The non-financial expenditure limit of the Autonomous Community of Galicia for 2016 is therefore approved.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG119.u29	We continue with the development of the agenda. The opinion of Mrs. Counsellor for the Middle East and the Sea, on his own request, to assess the current situation of the Greek milk sector and to report on the measures to be implemented to ensure its viability
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG119.u30	You have the floor, for your first intervention, the advisor of the Middle Rural and the Sea... Mr. Fajardo! [[Mr. Fajardo Recouso pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Mrs. Rosa Quintana, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG119.u31	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, very early. I compare today in this House to an account of a situation that affects about 10,000 livestock farms in this community and which focuses on the concerns of some 60,000 people linked to the Greek agriculture, including those that are part of the Rural Council. I say this because nobody escapes the weight that the dairy sector represents in Galicia and its relationship with the whole state, from which we can say, without fear of being mistaken, that when we talk about the dairy sector in Spain we're talking about Galicia. Almost 10,500 farms, which is 56% of the state's dairy farms, amounting to 2,571,000 tonnes of milk produced, which means 39% of what is produced at national level, and we aggregate 10% of the total Spanish dairy industry capacity. Since then, the dairy sector is present in all the stamps of the Greek economy, and this gives us the impression that it represents an important part of Galicia's gross domestic product, which is located about 1.45%, in addition to that it is a source of full employment in our territory, especially in rural areas. These data and the work of many people who every day change the cows in Galicia place us as the ninth European milk-producing region, also allowing us to point out that there are ratios and analyses that, by measuring the productive capacity, the competitiveness of farms or the agro-climatic characteristics to produce milk, place us in a privileged position to take forward this production work. In view of that, we must also say that Galicia is not alien to the European or state world context. Today this external situation gives us two keys that mark us in a high percentage of the internal circumstances of our sector. The first refers to the abolition of production quotas which have been in force for thirty years and that on 31 March they were removed to open up a free productive activity within the framework of the European Union. The second has to do with a widespread drop in world milk prices marked by high stocks, high world milk production – especially in the European Union, the United States and New Zealand –, the Russian embargo and the low demand for milk worldwide and which is combined with a 4% decline in milk consumption. Having said this, we believe that this situation is significant two data: the first, the prices reached in the last auction of Fonterra, held last July 15th, where the average price dropped by 11% with respect to the previous auction, representing the ninth consecutive downhill. The second, which is based on a generalized sub-production at the world level and which makes in countries like the United States – one of the world's largest consumers of dairy products and endowed with an ingenious manufacturing industry – is being thrown out of milk. Obviously, there is a problem in the Greek dairy sector; denying it would be denying the evidence, and we recognize it before and now. So we're faced with a problem of imbalance between the supply and the demand for milk and that affects prices. No less than we reproduce the world and European situation with data on the basis that the production of this period is the highest in the historical series, since in April there was an increase of 1.4% compared to April 2014 and in May we are at an increase of 2.5% compared to May 2014. The average price for 2015 is 28.40 cents per litre, it is more than 2% higher than in July 2012, the lowest price of the previous dairy crisis, but we know that the volume of milk delivered significantly marks the price, since 56% of Galician milk is being charged at 29.81 cents per litre. But in both cases, being the difficult and serious situation, we also have nuances to introduce against whom nothing has helped the gainful by sowing half-truths and complete lies and that do not bring any improvement. I'm saying this because as far as the increase in production is concerned, we've been tired of hearing in past months that we had to increase production without taking into account that we were still under a quota system. Without a doubt, in view of these comments, the constant warnings sent by the Greek and Central executives, along with the efforts made by the producers to adjust production to the available quota, have made it possible to minimize the number of holdings they have to deal with this payment. We don't know what would have happened if the gloves had been taken by the number of sirens and the number of 68 people affected today and the number of EUR 4.47 million had multiplied by 2, by 3 or 10; I tell them what would have happened: the hard crisis and the worst disaster on the industry. We are also tired of hearing that we are faced with a problem that only affects Galicia, as the whole country increases production less us, without those who make such claims providing the full data. I'm saying this because Galicia is the community that has increased its deliveries the most over the previous month of April. Besides, this productive relocation doesn't coincide with that massive flight of cows, some say. There are no cows going to other autonomous communities, but massively it is understood that since 1 January 2015 23 frozen cows have left Galicia. But there is also something that needs to be nuanced today and in front of this Parliament, ladies and gentlemen. No one denies that we go through a moment of adjustment and adaptation between supply and demand and, consequently, price. Is it hard? Yes. Is it complicated? Yes. Is it negative? Yes. But these difficulties are not different from other years and times, as long as some now tear their clothes apart. We know from the data and the greedy that the situation is hard, but it's no less true that in August 2012 milk prices were similar to what we're having now, and the production costs were 20 percentage points higher than now, which was supposed – translated to money – that at that time the production costs were 5 cents per litre higher. But if we go further and help those who have low memory, we can point out that when this team assumed, in the spring of 2009, Galicia's governance task was found at an average price of 25 cents per litre, with production costs that made fuel prices 40% above what they are today, and that the livestock were looking at as they thought they had just risen more than 50% and fertilizers over 70%. Some forget both past situations and measures already in progress, but doing so would be a mistake to diagnose and act now. This government hasn't forgotten and it's been working for months now. Things don't happen overnight; and I think that, as the gloves do, we always had more ants than cigarettes. Since 2009 Galicia has taken measures to improve the competitiveness of farms, its financial and liquidity capacity and the commercial structure of the sector. We are moving forward to improve the competitiveness of farms by improving the territorial base of farms through the Land Mobility Act, the Mountain Law, the Land Structure Improvement Act and the inclusion of land of unknown owners. We worked to improve the financial and liquidity capacity at that time and in 2012 and we wanted to improve the commercial structure by publishing the decree regulating the procedure of recognition and registration of milk producers' organizations in Galicia and putting in place the brand Gaga 100%, which supports the identification of Greek milk of differentiated quality. By its band, since 2012, the Magram has passed three royal decrees to complete the regulation of the Law of Measures to improve the functioning of the food chain. But in addition to this production-centred structure, we are also aware that domestic milk consumption is of something more than 9 million tons of milk and milk products, while their production in Spain amounts to 6.5 million tons, which makes them import annually more than 2 million tons of milk cheeses and dairy products. Even some time ago we have been aware that an increase of 10 per cent of the international consumption of milk up to 2024 is expected, mainly complaints and milk powder for older people and children. That's why we came to support the transformer sector, mainly small industries, providing help 138 projects, which had a total investment of about 90 million euros, of which we subsidized 28. Thus, most of the investments were for the marketing and processing of cheese, with 65.1%, 4.6 for other products and 30% for the improvement and specialization of the liquid milk packaging. In 2015 we have already injected more than 116 million euros of aid to the dairy sector, to which we have to add another 32 million euros more in processing to pay within this year. Within these funds, around 95 million were direct aid to farms, with an average of EUR 9 845 per holding. And between the already paid and the planned short-term payment amount to 148 million euros, which is the same, 24,500 million pesetas. We haven't changed the sector support line, not before or now. We're working to give the moneywinners liquidity, to improve their viability and strengthen their competitiveness. We are aware that this is a complicated situation, but no one can accuse us of being with their arms crossed. They're more than twenty measures or blocks of measures in which the Galician Union as a whole and the Government of the State are working to meet the only goal we have for the Greek dairy sector: to get ahead and get out reinforced. We are focused on two key issues, in the short term, such as obtaining liquidity and valuing the product. That's why we're speeding up the payments of aid from the common agricultural policy for modernization and for the incorporation of young people into agricultural activity, with an injection of nearly 20 million euros in a few days. We work with the financial institutions to sign a collaborative agreement for the granting of loans or advances in advantageous conditions, so that they have no interest or interest costs for the payee. We are speeding up management to anticipate aid directly affecting farms, hoping to bring another 70 million euros to the sector before the end of 2015 and thus making the average perceived this year by farms an average of around EUR 17,000. We seek, by the immediate publication of an aid order, a two-year moratorium on loans granted to the creditors at 0% interest, thus 1,100 potential beneficiaries, and the capital raised in the 51 million euro. But this effort of the Conseilaria do Medio Rural et do Mar is not unique. The Council of Galicia, starting with its chairman, considers the dairy sector strategic and acts in common with this consideration. That's why the Economic and Industrial Council also joins this support to the circular through an agreement with the Igape and which will take shape through an order that will be published jointly. Since then, the Economic and Industry and the Environment and the Sea councils will allow access to EUR 10 million of circulating capital for the two-way Greek dairy farms: by refinancing bank liabilities through loans of up to seven years which would be granted to the financial institutions, by accessing the new circular through the granting of loans by the financial institutions up to three years and of EUR 300,000. In both cases, the risk companies would assess the operation to a hundred percent, providing the Igape with a revaluation before them and paying the Rural and the Sea Council for the financial costs of loans and the avalanche fees to a hundred percent. In addition, it has also been working for weeks to achieve an increase in the consumption of milk and the value of dairy products, for which measures will also be taken in the short term. This same month will launch the campaign of setting value to the quality label Galicia 100%, and in September we will carry out another promotional initiative of small tetrabricks to promote the consumption of milk among children with this same emblem. In addition, in the same line of work in common throughout the Government, we are already close to signing an agreement with the Council of Economic and Industrial Affairs and the Galego Institute of Consumer Affairs so that consumer associations in the four provinces of Greece participate in a technical and dissemination day on the milk value. Finally, and deepening on that line of collaboration between departments, this board will collaborate with the departments of Work, Education and Health of the Union in promoting the consumption of milk of differentiated quality in all public contracts that are being launched. In addition, measures are also being implemented from the Ministry, such as those aimed at facilitating the refinancing of farm loans, those aimed at strengthening producer organisations or those aimed at promoting the promotion of milk consumption. In this line, it should be recalled that the Ministry has just allocated a total of EUR 11 million for these purposes, to which it must add the intangible value that will have the increase in the control and monitoring of the food chain in the dairy sector by verifying compliance with the law through the work of the Food Information and Control Agency. On the other hand, the Ministry will also deepen the greater dissemination of milk contracts and information on costs and production margins and will enhance the role of Inlac and the sector, which has already been promoting more than fifteen meetings in the last four months. But these measures aimed at giving oxygen in the sector will have a corrected and increased supplement in the medium and long term, focusing in particular on responding to the structural situations of our dairy sector. That is why we are directing, according to the view of the dairy sector as a priority for the Government of the Union, the new rural development programme towards this sector, devoting more than 500 million euros – 83,000 million pesetas – to this production in Horizon 2020. To that end, we will address measures and support such as those brought up with aid for the promotion of eco-production, you will approach farms in areas with natural limitations – which will increase by 123% – or support for dairy industries for the processing, marketing and development of new products. Going further, and within this generalized commitment to the sector of the whole of the Greek Government, we must also highlight the support that will be given to industrial investments in the dairy sector and the business concentration that enable companies and cooperatives to gain size. To this end, EUR 30 million was allocated, broken down into the 15 million EUR by Igape through the Jérémie and EIB programmes with loans of up to EUR 5 million and other EUR 15 million by Xesgalia for participatory loans and minority participations in the capital of companies. With this line, which we understand to be positive, we are already working everywhere so that, in the medium term, projects of productive and transformative integration emerge, having already a very advanced initiative that will be added to others carried out with the support of the EAFRD funds and which will allow to put in place concentrated milk plants and cheese processing. Since then, I believe that the lack of movement found in us is not such, except that for such an accusation it is understood that we do not join the demonstrations. Like I said, we'd add up if we saw that the banners solved the problems. Let us assert that we prefer to work by promoting support and assistance. Almost 150 million euros delivered or about to approach the sector, lines for circulation and interest-free loans, promotion of the Greek milk product and more than 500 million euros in the medium and long term we believe that they are data to support our commitment. [[Murmurs.]] With these measures we also meet the demands of the producer and industrial sector. Of all the issues that we are asked for, we leave only one in the hands of the representatives of the sector – and not because of lack of will but skills and capacity –; negotiating we cannot negotiate, and so said the National Competition Commission. I'm done, and I'm going to go to the livestock, to the real livestock, to the ones I know, many of them have gone through my office, many of them have visited and I know, and I'm convinced, like them, that we're going out ahead. I just want them to know that we are with them, with support and assistance, and that for them, for their families and for the dairy sector and the rural world we will continue to work on the only objective that they will be in the near future much stronger. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG119.u32	Thank you, Counselor. Round of parliamentary groups. Joint Parliamentary Group. Mrs. Churches.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG119.u33	Good afternoon, ladies. Welcome, Counselor. Thank you for your presence to explain to us the alleged progress you are making. And I have to admit that I respect your advice very much because you're the only one, from the few advisors of the PP government, who attends to the full where they deal with matters that matter to you; everything must be recognized, one thing and the other. Anyway, I would like to point out to you that the present landowners are daughters and grandchildren of previous farmers and farmers, a more trained generation, educated to dedicate themselves to the field and that in turn prepares other generations to perfect their work. A community that has endured all crises and that despite everything continues to consider its work – this is important – a lifestyle. If the livestock sector dies, it will drag with you the rural Galician. And, according to your data, I see that you also care about the subject, which you're worried about, that you talk about removing quotas, about the price drop. But all of this has to know is that it is the product of economic policy that brings you and your submission to European policies, there is no other explanation. If you're so worried and you're so in the direction of protecting this sector, you rebel against these policies, you negotiate with them. We're being left in Galicia. There are measures proposed by the owners, there are measures to collect the gain sector through their trade unions in a document. I'm going to read them, I'm sure you know them, but I want to read them in this Chamber so that they can be known by all Members. These proposed measures are short-term and medium-term, long-term, no longer waiting. And in the short term, the measures proposed by the livestock sector are the quantification of the surplus milk and management thereof through intervention mechanisms, private storage and delivery to third countries. Second short-term measure: the quantification of the surplus requires a detailed and purified procedure of information to allow a milk balance. Another short-term measure: monitoring and sanctioning of garbage contracts, so that they are considered null and void and a commitment is made to the industry operating in Spain to restore that milk at market prices. Another measure would also be to put an end to the banalization that is often made of milk and milk products. It's urgent, Counselor, and better today than tomorrow, with urgency. The affected consider that the only possible measure is an urgent price increase, with measures similar to those taken in France, where, after a state agreement, milk will rise by 4 cents until an average price of 34 cents is reached in December. You gave some amounts before the price of milk, I have others provided by the agricultural unions, by the gainful unions. There are prices ranging between 18 cents and 22 cents, they don't cover the cost of the source price, they don't cover their production. And the measures in the medium term would be the following... well, I was what they did in France -- sorry, a point -- and unfortunately, as I understand it, this measure was qualified by Carlos Cabana, the Secretary General of the Ministry of Agriculture, of little practical, which I – and certainly also the livestock sector – find incomprehensible. Because you talk a lot about Europe, the European Community, the rules that apply here and there. But we're talking about a neighbouring country, a country that borders Spain and a member of the European Union! If they apply it, why can't Galician? I also know of the agreements you made at this meeting that I am talking about and that they are not badly received by the livestock sector. These agreements to search for a moratorium on loans and provide liquidity for farms by refinancing liabilities are well received by the livestock sector, they are aware, but they are not enough to get out of the emergency situation – better said, of emergency – where this sector is located. Medium-term measures would be – according to these unions – regulation of the figure of the first buyers, so that they are real logistics operators that bring some value to the chain and not merely intermediaries. Need for consumption recovery, by promoting a school milk program that allows for an improvement in the consumption of milk and milk products that counteracts the negative image of milk. We all know that now, between the almond milk, the soy milk, the milk here and the milk there... the milk has a bad picture in the food chain, so that you counter this image that is given in many areas. And they say they and they say that it is essential – and they underline it – to "stabilize relationships between the different agents of the dairy chain." They also say that another measure would be the bet for a genuine collective negotiation of the elements of the contract through producer organizations, as the milk package allows, developing the figure of the mediator. To establish a future strategic plan for the dairy sector with four basic objectives: to make a diagnosis of the situation, to obtain direct information from different operators; to establish priority measures to take forward medium-term measures at different levels of holdings, industries and organizations; to link the relationships between food chain operators and to develop a financial commitment plan, as funding is needed for all these things, to implement this plan; and also to constitute a follow-up commission on the implementation of the plan with the direct participation of the actors involved. Because, Counsellor, the Greek dairy farms are in a limited economic situation – and you know it too – there is no waiting. They are threatened to stop collecting milk, ruinous prices, contracts in abusive conditions by industries and banalisation of milk by distribution, which continues to use it as a claim product. In addition, Galicia has two own characteristics that distinguish it from the different milk producers, which are the lack of guarantees – I repeat, repeat – of milk collection at a price that covers the costs – that must be solved already – and also the non-compliance by the milk package industry. The big dairy industries have a lot to do with the problem, and Europe has a lot to do with it. You have to stand firm and claim the rights of our people. No, but I'm serious. There is no point in explaining that this is because the European Community is doing this, because the industries are doing the other. You have management, you represent and you have to manage to protect our own and our own. You forget to give us those explanations from Europe, at least from me. Tell me what you're going to do here and if you're going to take these measures in the short term. If these gentlemen are going to have secured the collection of milk at market prices by the councillor, by the Government of Galician Union. That's what they're interested in, and that's what I ask and what I ask. Because I know it's hard to fight against Europe. We've just seen the Greek example of how much they talk about. Well, they're laughing too, see what's going on! They face him, they stand in front of him at once! which is what they have to do. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG119.u34	Thank you, Mrs Iglesias. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. Mrs. Peace.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG119.u35	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Madam Counsellor of the Rural Environment, allow me to tell you with all due respect that today whoever was here talking about the dairy sector is not you, but the president of the Galician Union. And let me also, with all due respect, tell you, after a long time in front of the council without having taken measures to alleviate the situation in the dairy sector, and especially without your recognition – not even today, that you come here dragged by the sector, by the mobilizations that are taking place in the sector, you were able to recognize it – that the dairy sector is in a critical situation, in a dramatic situation, you said that you were in a situation of adjustment and adaptation to a new market situation. And even if you've dared here to talk about the real gainers, who are the ones going through your office, they know we're going out of this crisis. That's why you're disgruntled, Counselor, because you only listen to real citizens, who are going to your office, but you've been listening to the sector for months, for months, for months, for months, for months, for months, for solutions to your situation. Because, Counsellor, this is happening today in the Welsh dairy sector, unfortunately it was seen to come many months ago, when you came here, repeatedly, to tell us that we were exaggerated, that we were catastropheists, that all we wanted was to harm the Government, that the situation was going to be wonderful and that only those who complained of vice were complaining, because I guess you didn't appreciate all those problems that we announced. You've been denying a situation that was predictable for months and now has become catastrophic. You are also disgruntled, Counselor, because you have dug the pit of your degrowth; because you, since you are a rural adviser, have never assumed the powers conferred by the Autonomy Statute on this government in the field of agriculture and gain; because in your strategy of diverting the responsibilities, of putting the blame on anyone who passes through San Caetano and does not assume their responsibilities, has always diverted the balloons to Europe or to the state or to any other place. And so now you don't paint anything in the dairy sector, Counselor. So little does it seem that even the industry dared on 11th when you called them to a meeting, to plant it massively because they didn't even have anything to talk to you. But yes, with Mrs Tejerina they will speak!, and curiously or on Friday, when the colonist came to the colonies, Mr Cabanas, the Secretary General of the Ministry of Agriculture, if they came back, curiously, to the industries. Counsellor, the sector has been absolutely delective and nobody considers it to be an interlocutor. That's why let me tell you that we who wanted to come here today were the president of the Galician Union, because, indeed, for the Galician Nationalist Block – and we've been saying so a long time ago – this is a country problem, and therefore it should be what was on the front page, on the second and all pages of the agenda of the president of Galician Union. It should be a reason for the president of the Galician Union to be blackmailed in Madrid and demanded urgent action by the state. But let him also sing before the factual powers for himself to assume responsibilities and make decisions. Look, Counsellor, everything you've come to tell us here about the measures they're going to take, or that they've taken, in relation to the dairy sector are very nice; it's all very pretty and very abundant. But look, Counselor, most of the measures you talked about here, the structural ones you had to adopt a year or two ago. Because, look, do you know when it was decided that quotas disappeared in 2015? In the year 2003. In 2008 the soft landing was decided, but in 2003 it was decided that quotas would disappear, and therefore this scenario we had to prepare before. Let's talk about land mobilization here, see, it seems to me to be a joke of bad taste! And, of course, of all the measures that you have listed here that you will adopt the Government of Galicia, I have nothing against any of them, surely they can all be positive to the sector, but tell me one thing, Counsellor, to those 2,000 to 2,500 farms that are currently in Galicia charging between 18 and 21 cents for milk collected by the industries, or to those who deliver milk even without price because they have no other way of delivering milk, of what is it worth to those holdings that we renegotiate them, which we refer to, that we give them more credits for circulation, if they still have a capacity for indebtedness? You don't think, Counsellor, that those that can be medium-term solutions to those farms that can survive this critical situation, are they not to prevent them from continuing to close exploitation in that country? Because isn't it true that the main problem with milk farms in our country right now is the price? Isn't it true that you are using the blackmail of the uncollected to lower even the prices of the contracts that are signed? Isn't it true that you were factories like logistics, which currently occupies the dairy food plant, although you have signed 26 cents contracts, you are paying 21 cents to the owners who have subscribed contracts with that industry, Counsellor? And we're not going to do anything about that mafia blackmail that's being practiced with the yellow thugs? And you, Counselor, don't you realize that there's a strategy that we're either putting on a brake, or you're going to turn Galicia into an absolutely residual element in milk production in the Spanish state? Aren't you realizing that – he said we gave him data – in Andalusia if he's increasing milk production and still paying for milk much more than is paid in our country? Isn't that true? Not in Extremadura, not in Castela-A Mancha. Isn't that true that a sort of milk relocation is taking place? And in the meantime, do you have what they do to stop that situation? Look, Counsellor, the important thing right now, what the sector is asking you, it's not that you come here to tell us every year, every day, the same mile of the CAP aid. 'Cause look, I'm a little sick of you guys coming here and telling us they gave the winners 95 million. No, you didn't give them, they were direct aids from the CAP they were entitled to because we're in the European Union, and they've upset us enough that we have to thank them for the 95 million euros of alms they'll give to the Greek dairy sector every year! That's no help, that's something you have the right to, Counselor. And what you had to tell us today is what you're going to do to give coverage to urgent demands, no emergency, no peremptory!, that you have the Welsh milk sector, that they are to guarantee you the collection of milk that is produced and that they are paid at a price that remunerates production costs. Look, Counsellor, are you going to do some kind of intervention, since you are saying permanently that the situation in the dairy sector is because there is too much milk on the market? You take milk from the market, Counselor. Look, Counselor, you're also quite a delusional government. The Government of France has just reached an agreement with the industries to raise four cents the price of milk. And if I were the Government of Galician Union, or I think any good Welshman if he were the President or the Councillor of Galician Union, what I would do would be commit to the agreement of France and force the industries here too to reach an agreement, but you don't, because you're the true mercenaries of the great multinationals, and what they did was to accuse the National Competition Market Commission and accuse the European Commission. You, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, instead of getting stuck with the first power or one of the first European powers in the dairy sector and saying if they buy prices for us too, you're what they do is go from acoustics like the bad students tell the European Union: look, look, look, the French have agreed prices.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG119.u36	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG119.u37	Look, Counsellor, you'll have to choose and you won't be able to say from this tribune that's on the cattle side when actually on the side of who's on whose side you're trying to destroy the dairy sector, because if you wouldn't act the way you're acting. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG119.u38	Thank you, Mrs. Paz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG119.u39	Parliamentary Group of the Alternative Left Gallega, Mr Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG119.u40	Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Counselor. Well, it's something the mobilizations are for. It's good for you and your government to know there's a problem in the Greek dairy sector. Yes, that's what the mobilizations are for, to draw attention when the normal channels don't work, and, of course, they've had to go out... yes, Mrs. Prado, I don't know who you've been talking to, I was talking up, maybe you have your hands on. Well, that's what it used to do. And about 15,000 livestock were in the streets of Compostela, 2,000 or more the other day in Santa Comba, on Saturday. They went out to scream and so you know there's a problem. I don't know if you think these people have a hobby to organize demonstrations. I don't know if you know what it costs, even when you suck at the prices of milk, even at that moment, which costs managing a dairy farm so you can live properly on it. I don't know if you know what these people work, prepare and strive. I don't know if you think the demonstrations, the mobilizations do them to have fun, to party. I don't know if you think about it, but you're the same day that you went out onto the street 15,000 people, and not just greedy people, but people who are aware that you come down the dairy sector and you close more farms the rural environment in Galicia disappears. I don't know if you realize that that day you said that the situation wasn't so bad, that it wasn't so serious. Even fifteen short days ago you said it wasn't for that, that it was worse than 2012. Today we learned why it was worse than 2012, because the costs of the inputs were more expensive in 2012. Of course, it was up to the Galician board at that time and now thanks to Mr. Feijóo's management, he's down on oil, and that's why we're in a better situation now. Besides, what solves a gain that is better or worse than 2012? What's true is that there's 30% of the farms that are charging prices that don't even cover production costs. And for many months now, we have seen them denounce, for many months now, that you have responded with a mixture of lack of sensitivity, empathy, respect for their own owners, of respect for the country in an immeasurable way. Counselor, you haven't just arrived here. Do you know that I perfectly summarize what we've always seen saying, that what's missing here is the politics and governments of the People's Party, who ruled twenty-eight thirty-four years, do you know what that summarizes? That the same exploitation here is in danger of closing, in another country it wouldn't be. That's the difference. In a country where land management policies have been made, where industry development policies have been set, and boxes have not been used to urbanize the Mediterranean, in a country where there has been a policy framework and an efficient chain organisation framework so that no abuses have occurred on the primary sector, the same farms, with the same resources, with the same ability of the owners, could live smoothly, and here they can close. They're not in danger of closing farms that aren't competitive, they're not in danger of closing farms because they haven't done their job, they're in danger of closing farms because you haven't done the duties they have to do. And today we get out of here even more worried. Because you came here saying that to give solutions to the owners, today that they need them from today to tomorrow, and what you came here to say is a godemecum of everything the Council does and what it does any advisor, I mean, subsidies for this, subsidies for the other. But he didn't come to tell us the three or four solutions that they have planned and worked to get them out of this limited situation; although you deny it, there are farms that are in a limited situation. And it's normal, because you're a absentee government, there's no government, you're a bad delegation from the state government. You know that the primary sector in Galicia represents 1.26% of GDP and in the Spanish state ten... that industry is that, Counsellor, only the primary sector I'm talking about, 1.26. In the Spanish State, less than ten times less, or 0.15. Can it be the same schedule as the Government of the State when it weighs 0.15 or the Government of a country weighing 1.26, which is the ninth producing region of Europe?, can it be the same? Well, it's not even the same thing, it's that you're delegating to the state government. It is that you have not lived a moment of tension with the Government of the State or a moment of political tension with the European Union to defend models contrary to those which are being applied by the European Union, and which harm our agriculture, no, total submission. You didn't even announce here what Galicia's objectives were for the negotiation of the CAP, the common agricultural policy that made the further deregulation of the market, that free market that you so much defend. There is no free market, there is greater freedom for distributors to continue abusing the primary sectors. What freedom does a German gainer have today in this country, Counselor? The freedom to sign, if you're lucky, for a person to pick up the milk on the conditions they put it on and at the price they put it on; that's the freedom they have. The only freedom you have is to be able to go out and scream so that you can find out, and you want to deny it too. And you say it'd be useful for something to stand in front of. No one needs you in front of a demonstration, Counselor, you should be in front of a government that deserves such a name, and it's not. You, your demonstrations over these months are a real spectacle. You said in Lugo that a lot of the dairy crisis had to do with the weakness of R+D+i policies. And you have nothing to do with it, and you want me to repeat again what you're doing with the Mabegondo Agricultural Research Center, more than cutting off, rather than trying to suspect those who want to do their job well? You cut 36% of the staff in this center from 2012 to 2013, 45% of the investigator's staff, endangering many resources that could come from Europe and the state because there are not enough researchers. And you say it's because there's no R+D+i, as if you've been through here, as if you've just arrived. In short, you don't do your homework – I've repeated it many times – either the problem of land or industry or the regulatory framework. Because you have never had a project for the countryside of this country that was different from what we are seeing, which is dismantling, abandonment, desertification of the countryside. A short time ago, the work advisor, also as if it were a divine misfortune, that Galicia could lose in the next thirty or forty years a million inhabitants. Obviously, it's losing 15,000, 17,000, we lose an enormous amount of people every year. Does it have nothing to do with the loss of inhabitants with the lack of capacity or willingness of their People's Party government to have efficient policies to develop productive sectors? And that these years of crisis people have not sought refuge in agricultural or livestock activities? And yet jobs in rural areas and agricultural jobs have been destroyed, and they don't stop destroying themselves, while in other autonomous communities that are next to them, the incorporation aid has grown and even duplicated those that were requested here in this country. You'd rather do electoralism than politics. That's why when they go into an important process for this country, they never expose the goals to be achieved, because they're exposed to criticism if they don't achieve those targets. Obviously, they did the same with the CAP, and they sold as a achievement to maintain the status quo anterior, when the status quo anterior was to perceive 3% of the aid when Galicia means 6% of the final agrarian production. Besides, you haven't done the least planning and forecasting exercise, you've gone to the bar. You have just announced that you are willing to make a strategic plan with agricultural organizations in August 2015 when April 1, 2015 has ended the quota system. Where was the strategic plan of the quota system? Because anyone who knows what a situation without market liberalisation means knows that the territorial base is fundamental, and countries that do not have it with a major handicap, Galicia competes at a disadvantage with other countries in Europe. Whoever doesn't have a powerful transformer industry has a handicap, Galicia is counting on that handicap. And another handicap quoting any expert is a policy framework that balances the milk chain, and Galicia didn't count on it either. In everything you can attribute to a government you failed, and instead the only thing you can come here to say or to speak is that we have very good climatic and edafological conditions for milk production. Just like Brazil and Argentina have great conditions to produce soda too, and that doesn't mean that it increases the well-being of the people of Argentina and Brazil, but it means the enrichment of foreign industries and other countries, not of Galicia. Counsellor, you have to do politics, and you have not come here to do politics, you have come here forced by a situation and as always your government acting in the short term, in an electoral, propaganda, but without solutions. And it's normal that they also delay in reacting and start three months after the end of the quota system takes action to still move over something that's very rusty and what they're not used to, which is working seriously...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG119.u41	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG119.u42	...and it costs a lot, Counselor. Don't laugh, don't laugh, Counselor. Don't laugh it's not to laugh, what you're doing is not to laugh. [[Murmurs.]] You're not exercising, Counselor, you're not exercising as a government in this country, you're leaving behind...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG119.u43	Finish it, Mr. Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG119.u44	...the landowners of this country are leaving the countryside of this country, Counselor. Don't laugh it's not to laugh. You...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG119.u45	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG119.u46	... they don't do it at all. You sent...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG119.u47	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. Finish it, Mr. Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG119.u48	...a PDR to Europe, with an observation that came back telling them that how it is possible for the 2014-2020 RDP not to study the impact of the finished quota system of small and medium-sized farms, which should fall into their face of shame. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG119.u49	Thank you very much. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr García.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG119.u50	Thank you, President. Counsellor, good afternoon. I have to admit that I learned the farewell of the speech, I think he just missed the typical postdate: I love you, too, Rosa Quintana. But in any case – and I have to admit it – it changed who gave you the speech, something advanced. I mean, until now – and there's the Journal of Sessions – you said there was no problem. Now he says there's a problem, he doesn't say it's very serious, but at least there's a problem. It's more, it lists a number of measures, a number of things, actually, a piece of measures that there's a problem; they'll be better, then we'll discuss, but then there's a problem, or wasn't there? When I told you here in October, November, December, February, March that there was a problem, did you tell me not? What I wrote him was another one, because he's changed, he's done it, he's done it, or he's written it now, you have to have done it from the beginning. I mean, to me, at least, I want to put it in value, because I've always criticized that I came here not to say anything, something said; I don't agree almost with anything, but something said. And at least he said there were problems, which the day of the demonstration, and days after the mobilizations, you kept saying that the problem wasn't serious, for me the problem is serious. Counselor, we've had some challenges. I do, I accuse you, Counselor, of being arm-crossed this past year as far as the dairy sector is concerned. I accuse her clearly and solemnly: you were with your arms crossed and without doing anything at all, you and the Government. The Government also knows – it is significant – of the presence, and I think that means that Mr. Feijóo always introduces into the speeches of his importance to him. And indeed, the demonstrations have changed something, at least we have a counselor who already says there's a problem. Now we'll see if we agree to focus on it or that it's more serious or less serious, but something goes on, because – I repeat – check what you said all these months ago, that there was no problem and that we were catastropheists. Yes, Counselor, check it out, because what is written is written. But, well, today you actually appear here at your own request, because it is the rule of the Government, but if we demand from the opposition groups – I think on repeated occasions – that the President of the Board would come to appear, and at least from this group has been done. And he appears here in August in an extraordinary plenary; he is more, he is the only person in the Government to appear. So it seems that something is moving, and those 15,000 that the other day were in Santiago, or those that were, and the 2,000 that were in Santa Comba and those that would be in Lalin for the next week and those who would be in all the districts of Galicia at least get out of all the problems that Galicia has at this moment the only one who would come to appear is you. So we're moving forward. And, in fact, to tell those gloves that they did something, which is that until now you came here to say empty sentences and topics that were not of any use. At least we're moving forward. For us, the dairy sector has a problem and has a very serious problem. And first of all, by saying: when you then said that, in fact, from the opposition, from this group and from other opposition groups, a series of changes were made in the milk package and they said that we were wrong and that we had to look for forums and strategies in common, and therefore you had to lead the industry, the distribution and all that, we were wrong – they said – they voted against it; when even in the last commission we said that we had to address an urgent industrial plan, they voted against it because we said they were wrong. All of this requires at least a correction, because many of the measures that you now list are going to do in that direction. It was you who said on the day of the demonstration that with banners nothing was fixed, that it was to talk and sit at a table together, when I was told thousands of times in clear initiatives and belief that they asked for it, and you said no, the People's Group, and I understand that you would say something or have to do with that decision. Counsellor, I demand and I think your speech in some way is a correction. And it's important to us. Why? Because if we don't agree on the diagnosis, we can hardly agree. I, of course, felt totally frustrated, because we didn't agree in the diagnosis and you were going to say that there was no problem and that all of this was saying that you were going to happen was saying that it was a lie, at least now, if we agree on what's going on and that actually happened, we can move on if we are able to articulate some sort of solution to the future. And, Counselor, don't cheat, you can't compare the euro from now on to 2005. In any case, that doesn't make any sense. By setting up, do we agree with the Ministry's data that to reduce milk and not lose exploitation we have to produce 0.33, yes or no? Don't you? I mean, everything that goes down from 0.33 the farm loses milk, yes or no? We're left with more data. That's what the Ministry says. Not for Galicia. Well, let's agree, how much do you have – clearly tell the owners – to charge the milk so they don't lose money? Because if we don't go here, don't yell at me I don't see you like this whole year. Of course, if I'm telling you that in everything that goes down from 0.33 the gloves lose money and you say no, then let's agree. How long do you have to charge milk for the gloves? Because if you don't always get to say what you want. Of course, Counselor, go out here and say, you gentlemen, you have to charge the milk at all and if you charge it at this price, don't complain, and tell them clearly, don't come to Santiago, don't go to Santa Comba, nor go to Lalin, who are charging what they have to charge, tell them. And then we can move forward, because if we don't go back to it: each one is in his own problem and we don't understand each other. Counselor, you have given here data, and I repeat that whoever made the speech to you I suppose it's another one, follow this one, throw the other one out. You said here that we really cared. For the first time he gave data, he gave real data and he gave data on the importance of the sector, and I think it's a breakthrough. You talked about the three million tons that we import every year, what is the strategy of the Galician Union with these three million tons? I mean, quota liberalization was made because milk is needed worldwide, so Europe says: we're not going to be so stupid not to produce it because we have the capacity to produce it and supply the world market. What's wrong? Let the French and the Germans say: So, look, we – as they don't have a spell that goes around saying nonsense – while we go to China, to India or I don't know where, when we go in, while we don't go there to see if we send the milk, we're going to send it to Spain, which is 600 kilometers and has three million tons/year of deficit. That's what's happening. And the Galician Junta says, "Oh no!, maybe what we have to do is make us our milk in dust and go to Cuba, Mexico," says Feijóo when he goes around, and sell the price of milk in powder. We, who have here the three million tons that we could sell, what do you think of Galician Union with that? Because you're like some plum that's around, you've been listing the problems and now you're also diagnosing every six months of what the problems are, yes, you never ask anyone to tell you what you've done with those problems, you describe the problem. So what is your industrialization strategy and addressing that opportunity that should be? You're talking about a 2% increase, and it looks like a lot. I mean, in a market where it says that from now on we have to liberalize the market and, therefore, to produce as much as possible, is a 2% increase in size? Counselor, you come here with the supertax management. The yellow gloves have already paid the supertax, paid the price decrease and paid it because they had to rent quota to continue producing, we were the only ones who paid it, and you come here sucking out of that management. Counsellor, believe me – and I'm telling you the truth – that the gangsters who carry you on election campaign are not the real gainers. And what are you talking about with those gangsters? You let go of all this that released you here today. But don't you see it's useless? I mean, a glove who's sitting today and listening to his speech, don't you see that from all that you tell him he knows he doesn't have enough of anything at all? You come here bragging about the help of the CAP. How much does a French claw charge, which is the one to compete with? More, based on the liter of milk, now not based on the liter of milk, but at any rate it has much to do with history. How much more does it pay? Four cents. So what's selling them here for three million? If they are aids to the CAP, they have exactly the same as the French, but the French have more than all those things that you said, four cents more per litre, besides what you said. And you come here sucking your chest? Well, no. So, of course, the glove who is sitting there at home says, "But what does this lady tell me, what is she talking about, if I have absolutely nothing, if I don't get anything at all?" Counsellor, you're talking about industrial projects, I in the last commission asked you to explain to us, said that at your own time. What do these industrial projects consist of – I repeat again – do you intend to address this opportunity to supply these three million tons a year?, do you mean to make milk powder, therefore, at the price of milk powder, because making milk powder is relatively easy, is a drying tower?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG119.u51	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG119.u52	It's pretty simple, it's model Lence to put the milk on a brick and sell it cheap. Then do it until Lence. So what I mean is, is this the commercial strategy we're going to have? That's what you should come to us today, what is the plan of what we want to do with the sector? And don't ask and don't have a hard face to say it's the gain. The gainful who gather one day after Mass all in a coordinated manner and by divine infusion and arrive at the conclusion of where the sector goes? That's the responsibility of a government, Counselor. You don't have to negotiate, but you have to say this to the gain, you'll have to lead, or Mr. Feijóo, whatever...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG119.u53	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG119.u54	...as a government where you want to lead the sector. And you're still here without saying anything. I repeat: I think much better the speech, at least he didn't say and at least he quoted it as something almost personal about "I've always been, I'm and will be next to the dairy sector," which, really, at this point, was really bad to say. So I congratulate her on the speech, in at least forms, and if we advance that we have a problem, it's a starting point, because it took me four years. So, if we already have a problem, I'm all happy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG119.u55	Thank you, Mr. García. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs García Pacín.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG119.u56	Good afternoon, everyone. Thank you, Mr. President. Well, today we illustrate ourselves again with all the strategies, with all the measures, with all the achievements and alternatives that have since the opposition to change the situation of the dairy sector. We all understand that the speeches, the vehemence of them may be part of the force of reason, but I believe that the facts, the demagogy that is often used in politics because it does not come – say – justify the facts that endorse this government and its advice, Counselor. Because, look, when others had responsibilities of government, Mr. Suárez Canal never let Mr. President of the Union talk about milk, Mr. Touriño never appeared in this chamber to talk about milk. So when the nationalists had the responsibility to manage crises, because yes, ladies and gentlemen, there were mobilizations on the street as well, and then Mrs Peace also spoke of catastropheism, that there were others who wished, that it was not really a Greek problem, that milk, because it had its difficulty at national and European level. Ladies and gentlemen, welcome to the dairy debate. But, look, you're wrong when you say that Europe is the enemy. Indeed, if the productive sectors of Greece had to reject all the aid and all the European policies we were wrong to do. I believe that today the competitiveness of our farms and the figures and the data that support them are able to change a reality of family farms of survival, not of competitiveness. And when Mr Sánchez of AGE holds the PP governments accountable for this situation, he completely distinguishes in three decades, especially in the dairy sector... Yes, Mr Sánchez, to a great deal of honor, we belong to a political group that he has fought, who he has been, who is, and who will be next to the dairy sector and the milk producers. [[Applause]] And Mrs. Paz was talking about the lady councillor being disgruntled to talk about milk. Look, Mrs. Paz, I understand that politically you can use arguments without falling into disqualifications, to degrade politics a little more and more if possible, even raising your voice as you did today. But that doesn't give him the reason, because if milk and forest fires had bad policies in this community, they were nationalist policies. Because, Mrs. Paz, do you know how many farms they closed when you had government responsibilities, dairy farms per year? About 1,770. ( Do you remember that "remain in the countryside"? [[Murmurs.]] You're obvious, they say that young people have not been incorporated into dairy farms and livestock farms. Mind, Mr. Sánchez. In fact, the Greek producers are betting not only on milk but on all the productive systems of the countryside, and the data I'm going to give them because they're very easy, and you know them but none of them. Because, look, the useful agrarian surface of which you usually refer to has grown, has been one of the few communities where it has increased, where there has been for exploitation, where there have been specific regulations where the president's commitments have been demonstrated when the land improvement law was approved. And I was saying to Mrs. Peace that, of course, we are a delegation from the Government, the Ministry and even that Mr. Cabanas was coming. Well, look, Mrs. Paz, Mr. Cabanas approached the Rural Council as an interlocutor and as a mediation of administrations in the face of the difficulties of the dairy sector, because even you in Madrid were unable to manage those few plots of unknown owners that were needed to increase farms, because they did, they cut many farms when they wanted to make exchanges and could not concentrate the land, and the plots could not be scaled. That little thing, because you were unable to do it. She's crying, she's right. Mr. García says that this was a cry; as well as that they were a "chumped" those initiatives that the mayors of the municipalities had; initiatives that I understand they were going to implement the legislation, to bring what other entities and other collectives are not able to do. Because, ladies and gentlemen, the Administration is arming its shoulder and doing what it has to do. The producers did, but the dairy producers' organizations, sponsored by the unions, those failed, these, with two real decrees where they benefited, where they recognized them, where with specific measures they provided help to make them... No, but it's not their fault, it's the mediator's fault, it's the administration's, it's got to force the industries to sit down. And France... Of course, because in France they happen to have an agreement where "four more cents," they said. Mr. Garcia, I'll be amazed. How are we not so ready to copy France? Like in Mr. Zapatero's Government, in the 2008-2009 crisis, with 25 cents in averages, weren't they able to copy the French? That's it? Now if it's easy to sue, make and use demagogy again. Well, look, really, weak favors are doing the sector. And, Mrs. Paz, it's really not funny, because it's called mafia blackmail to sign compulsory contracts, not those things that were previously approved voluntary contracts... was that the solution to milk? It was when the tables of milk met, where they allegedly tried to make prices, and that the bodies of competition, in writing, Mrs. Peace, questioned. Well, I think everyone, every political group, can talk. But, ladies and gentlemen, I didn't want to forget about the industrial projects Mr. García was talking about, at the end of his term, industrial transformation projects. What is the Council's political strategy? Counsellor, what you mustn't do is what the socialists did when they could not do it, when they could help the sector. Counsellor, Puleva, who was involved in Ebro Puleva more than the Ministry? The Ministry gave the answer to the silence, the silent response, before the sale to the French, consolidating a French company in our community. Who was the political group that was able to criticise investments like Entrepinares in a region, in a municipality, where employment was really needed in the primary sector, transformation and where the number of jobs has recently expanded and the transformation of Greek milk? Who was able to sign there for 2005 a pact for the Greek milk group? That, of course, as we are responsible for twenty-eight or thirty years of Popular Party politics... really, Mr. Garcia... [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] But, listen, I forgot, it turns out that when the 1% increase, a soft landing, when you were going to pass away from the quotas, do you remember when you entered 2008 milk trucks, especially French? So, then, the socialists that they were doing, were they closing borders? Oh, no, I remember, they were making a strategic plan, some inspections, and they were telling the owners: you have to report dumping practices to the European Union. Actually, those inspections aren't the inspections that are being carried out today, a plan of inspections that collects the relevant regulations; regulations that you left as draft in the drawers, which were unable to bring and make available to the sector. Because, ladies and gentlemen, today, in addition to all the help that the Counselor has put out, that are not few... Mr. García, tell me, do you say that the Counsellor now brings to this House measures, aid, issues that you have used as initiatives and that we refuse, but then do something or do nothing? They just don't agree. In their argument they use both senses, the white and the black. I really expected more of you. But, of course, when we have such active unions, because already in December 2014 they announced that they were going to start the first negotiations with the industries, do you know any of them?, do you know what happened to collective bargaining?...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG119.u57	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG119.u58	Ladies and gentlemen, let's be a little... not strict, that we are all, and we also respect every opinion and every way to defend, but, gentlemen, we're wrong. You're not an alternative to government, because you don't think... [[Murmurs.]] Mrs. Díaz, you also know, as Mr. Méndez Romeo... Yes, because, look, Mr. Méndez Romeo in precipaña came to my municipality, to Friol, and there we no longer have problems on the milk; he solved all the problems of the milk; and the power of summons, above all, was... well, a visa and not seen.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG119.u59	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG119.u60	Actually, we can all contribute, of course, yes, and we can all add up, but we can never use the difficulties of a sector to make politics. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG119.u61	Thank you, Mrs. García Pacín. Replica. Counselor of the Middle Rural and the Sea.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG119.u62	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon again. Mrs. Peace, neither dragged nor crippled. I come here at my own request, I come without any need for the livestock to go out to the street, or those who accompany them, I come here on my own will and I come here to answer the Parliament, which I understand is the representation of citizenship, of the measures we have taken since the minute one to help the gainors to get out of the crisis. [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]] Neither dragged nor crippled, because then we'll see how others would have to be. So, no more or less. If I come here today dragged and demeaned, what would happen from February 2008 to spring 2009?, what measures were taken from February 2008 to spring 2009? We had to arrive -- forgive us -- and make the advance of the payment of the CAP aid, which was the only autonomous community that did so, and that then the European Union copied this measure, with a complaint from the central government, which said it was illegal what it was doing. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] That's what happened: ahead of the common agricultural policy's aid to solve the problems that the owners had at that time. [[Applause]] Then, neither dragged nor disgruntled, with full ability to work, because so continues the President of the Council of Galicia... yes, gentlemen; yes, gentlemen, because he has given me this competition, and it is my responsibility to realise what I am doing. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] That's why I understand that I have to show up, because it's my responsibility. Ladies and gentlemen, the truth is that I thank you for your words, your comment and the reading you have made of the document that agricultural organizations have brought to you. Look, a few killings. We're not left in Galicia. I regret that I had only made reference to the document that was provided by the agricultural unions. I've been here explaining what there was, and all of us today, just by looking at TV news or reading news in the media, we know that also in Belgium, which also in France, and also in the United States, the dairy sector is having problems. We're all working, all political leaders, I think regardless of the political ideologies of any region, of any country, to try to solve the problems of the gain. I want to nuance that I don't like getting my words out of context, and that's why there's the media and there's the recordings. I don't like getting my words out of context. I'm not saying here that the only gangsters are the ones who come to my office, I didn't say that. The real livestock are the ones I visit, the ones that come to my office, the ones I receive, because I've been with a gang still yesterday representing 248 farms, 65,000 livestock heads and they produce one million gallons of milk a day, and they tell me: advisor, we're with you, we know you're doing the best things possible. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] It's not only up to the Administration to solve the problems. No, Mrs. Yolanda Díaz, don't be like that, don't be like that. [[Murmurs.]] I respect everyone and I like them to respect me too. This is not the first time I come here and say we have problems, and today I didn't say we had problems, I said, we have problems, but we're going out ahead, as I've been saying from minute one. What you can't say is, we have a problem and ay!, what am I going to do? What we're doing, work. And I'm not going to let them say I'm a tramp. I work every day, Mr. Sánchez, every day, and the measures that I brought here today I didn't make them up last night, I didn't invent them fancy and I didn't invent them on the day they went out on the street or the day they went out with the tractors walking through Santa Comba. [[Applause]] No, Mr. Sánchez, these measures involve effort and work from minute one, since we arrived at the Government. Ladies and gentlemen, intervention mechanisms. The intervention mechanisms, if they had to be applied right now, we would be paying the milk to 16 cents, and that would not be good for the sector. Private interventions are being financed and aid is being granted to all those who want to do so. We, on the other hand, are talking to certain foundations that have a social character to remove milk from the market, but the market price, and that's what we're doing. France's measures. Look, we're not accusers, we're responsible people. It's just, let's see, are we in a single market? The rules of play for everyone come from the European Union? Well, then, we all want to play with the same playing rules. And what we're not going to agree is a different treatment for France and a different treatment for Spain, and, as we're not going to agree, we're going to put it on the table and decide what the European Commission has to do. Because what we will never do will be what was done at other times with some sector, which I've already said here and which I know they don't like, but which is a reality. When the Administration does things that it can't do, then it has an impact on the primary sector, which is what we have to defend. So I said one, five, and I'll say it and I'll do it fifty thousand times: I'll never put the sector in a place that I'll have to pay a penalty for my irresponsibility, as it happened to the cruise sector. That's not what I'm going to do, that's the only thing I ask the representatives of the sector to do. [[Applause]] We have achieved, through the European Union's market structure, that dairy producers' organisations are the only producers' organisations that have the capacity, granted by the European Union, to sit and negotiate, to have equality with industry and to talk about buying prices and setting prices. So, if they are, what we have to do with administrations is help to have strong producer organizations to do what they have to do. And on that line we're working. It's going to be over seven million euros that we're going to make available to producer organizations so they can do their job well. And the work of producer organizations is to organize, plan and negotiate prices. That's what we want producer organizations to do, not every producer individually, because we understand that each individual producer feels inferior to conditions, is far below being able to talk to a powerful industry. A financial commitment plan already has, which guarantees the collection of milk at appropriate prices. That's what we're working on. There was no milk left without collecting in the field; there was no milk left. In 2009 there was milk left without collecting. At this point, there's not a single farmer who told us he didn't get his milk. And with regard to the price of milk, Mr García, the Ministry, as you well know – don't tell me that I have to set the price – mark a reference price, and for Galicia that reference price is 25.4 cents. That's the reference price you've marked. Now, irrespective of that, Mr. Garcia, every glover knows what it costs him to produce, and the cost of exploitation he has and the cost of depreciation he has. So I can't talk about buying a price, it has to be the sector itself that decides how it will amortize the production costs it has. [[Mr. García García pronounces words that are not perceived.]] And, really, I repeat to you, Mr. Garcia, don't joke about the work that Mr. President of Galicia's board does. Mr. President of the Galician Union, when he leaves abroad, tries to find a market for all our products, one of them for the dairy sector. You have been laughing here in this House at statements by the President of the Union when he intended to open the milk industry market for Mexico and Cuba, but you also recognize that, in addition to a Member, he is from Agricultural Unions, and Agrarian Unions so he has asked at least to open markets for North Africa and Venezuela. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we will continue to work for the dairy sector, always saying the same thing, that we are next to the livestock, and we will continue to be; not some, of all, of all the true gain, of those who work every day, because it seems here that only their livestock are, of course.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG119.u63	Thank you, Counselor. Round of clarifications. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Iglesias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG119.u64	Thank you, President. Counsellor, I know you can do little because you are subject to market dictates. The report against the millionth anniversary of competition in the dairy industry reveals the secret and impunity pacts that the giants in the sector have maintained to lower prices and press the stalls. And the agricultural trade union movement mostly regrets that large distributors go out in compensation and hopes that the fine resulting from this report will not be counterproductive in the medium term for farms. The Resolution of the Council of the National Community of Markets and Competition clearly believed that large companies would pay the amount that would be paid to the holding companies and also how the market would be distributed among them, so damage to the holdings, especially for Galicia, which accounts for almost 50% of the sector, as you said. There are references, mails, handwritten notes, reports and minutes of meetings between the major firms in the sector where the collection and payment of milk in Galicia is concerned, sharing the farms and agreeing strategies to press the stalls. These magnets, according to Competition, would have materialized in concrete agreements to coordinate prices in the purchase of milk and pressure producers. And they did it for many years with total impunity. And now, even above all, sanctions don't meet expectations, because they don't sanction distribution, which would be the great milk price manipulator. This is the catastrophic result of a government kneeling in front of markets and big industries and forgetting that it was elected by a people in a state of national emergency. The mobilizations, which look so bad to you – I think it's a right, the right to protest, the right to... –... you also do it with Rouco Varela many times. It's not a criticism, it's a right; I'm telling you, because, as they do... because the mobilizations that take place -- and there's going to be a lot of sight, and there's not going to be a walk, the tractors won't walk around -- they'd better stay at home working with their families -- contradict their speech, that picture that constantly -- from a month or so, or a couple of months here -- they want to sell us economic recovery all the way. Counsellor, as you said before, are at stake 9,457 direct jobs and 40,000 indirect jobs. They depend on the Greek dairy sector, and today 541 farms are forced to sell milk under 20 cents. I have nothing else to say; no more, no less. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG119.u65	Thank you, Mrs Iglesias. For the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Paz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG119.u66	Counsellor, I just left you in your seat a little bit of burned-down land that I was assigned to you from Navia de Suanna last week to make you manifest – and they told me that it had moved you there – that this is the policy that you do with the rural environment; a policy of abandonment that causes the liquidation of the rural environment and a policy that only leaves the land burned, which is what you are also doing with the dairy sector in our country. They intend that the dairy sector, around a very short time, as no appropriate measures are taken, be burned down. I just, by removing the controversy from the years 2008 and 2009... you, of course, already knew they were going to talk about those years, but I took the trouble of looking for the report of the Milky Sector Observatory and the IGE, and I have to remind you, Counsellor, who, from 2008 onwards, began to lower the price of milk. But do you know what it was like in January 2008? At 45 centimeters. And you know, Mrs. Garcia Pacín, how did the milk price end in 2008? 36 cents the liter. And you know how it started in 2009? Thirty-four cents a litre. And do you know what was the lowest price you had in 2009? In March and April to 29 and 30 cents the liter. The technologies in Parliament I think have just been rebutted against me, because I intended to teach them... here's, I don't know if they'll see the graph from there, but, in any case, 45, never before and never afterwards was the milk at the highest price in this country. And never before, and never after, in Galicia we had a higher milk price than in France and no higher than in the middle of the state or higher than in the European average, Mrs. García Pacín. And I don't say any more. I say that's when the French copied us. Those contracts that looked like nonsense to you, Mrs. García Pacín, and that milk observatory and that indexation of prices that you looked like nonsense, indeed, are what the French are doing. Counselor, I don't know if the 15,000 cattlemen who came to Santiago came for a walk or a walk on Santiago's Way and gave him a Compostela, but what I know is that they were genuine genuine Greek farmers. I, of course, saw no label in which I had put it made in China, i.e., that they should be genuine country owners, Counselor, as much as they don't go to their office to take a look at him and tell him what good he's doing. [[Applause]] Look, Counselor, we're telling you here is: do you do the same as the Government of France did, or can't you? The French Government, Mr. Hollande and Mr. Valls, took the French industry and distribution from their ears and sat them on a table, and forced them to accept a pact to raise four cents a litre of milk. But do you know what the problem is, Counselor? That here who marks the prices of the distribution is a lord called Roig, and that one can't get Mr. Feijóo or Mr. Rajoy through the ears because he has them taken from you by envelopes B. That's the problem of this country, and here it's always done business on account of the productive sectors, and more if it's about the production sectors of Greece. [[Applause]] Do you know what another problem is, Counselor? That the Galician Union has given up six years ago to be the one who dictates the policy of the milk sector in the Spanish State. Can you imagine, Counsellor, any Valencian government – whether of the political colour that it was – any Andalusian government – whether of the political colour that it was – or any noble government that allowed it to decide in citrus, oil or bellota ham respectively somewhere else what state policy should be in relation to that productive sector? And yet you have allowed Galicia to paint nothing in the dairy sector, and so we go, Counselor. I strongly ask you two questions: one, which urgently tackles measures to intervene in the milk market, and I'm not telling you any more. And you know there are ways to do it. It doesn't make me laugh, it seems to me a very serious situation, because, look, you can come in two years, when you approve the RDP – if you ever approve it – with these 500 million euros you have for dairy farms, and we'll see how many dairy farms are left in this country to give them 500 million euros. They're in a real emergency. They're at a serious risk of disappearing from 2,000 to 3,000 dairy farms in this country, and what the German Government has to do is look for the formula...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG119.u67	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG119.u68	...to ensure that all milk is collected and paid at a market price, which means that production costs are remunerated and that the owners are given a fair wage for their work. Not at all, Counselor. That's your first obligation; it's the one we're asking from this parliamentary group and it's the one you're asking from these livestock, both the real ones and the non-black ones, who walk through the streets of this country. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG119.u69	Thank you, Mrs. Paz. For the Parliamentary Group of the Galga de Left alternative, Mr Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG119.u70	Counselor, I didn't call you vague. It's that the definition of work, in physics, is the energy that needs to be applied for displacement; if there's no shift, that's effort, but it's not work. So I don't care if you get up at 6:00 in the morning and you're trying all day, what I know is that, translated into a shift, that is, effective measures to solve the problems, I don't see it, and I don't think nobody sees it, that's what I mean. I always repeat that it's nothing personal. I don't care, just that the results of your effort aren't seen, and so that's not work. We're out more concerned than before, Counselor. Look, you came here and, in theory, it was the moment when you had to give specific solutions to a limit or emergency solution, you call it whatever you want. And you're the only one who repeated it was a short cut of ordinary subsidies that would only be lacking, because that's a European policy that transfers to Galicia in an ordinary way, and the only solution that has to do with its duties and not with which the owners are charged is a policy of giving 7 million euros of circulation and speeding up the payment of loans and interest amortizations for two years. Those are the only solutions you've given. Look, there's a good 7 million euros for the circulator, but that's what we told him three months before the quota system started. That was one of the parts that we said had to be in a strategic plan that predicted the different scenarios that could be given at the end of the quota system; that any one knew it. At the end of the quota system we already knew they were going down... we're not in favour of liberalisation, but we knew that at the end of the quota system there could be a downward trend, greater volatility. For the times when prices are falling, as is now happening, there are funding policies to sustain certain winners of those times. That's what they had to have planned and not get to work on it now. And the postponement of payment can be a momentary relief, but it's no solution to the problem; the solution to the problem and the rest of the strategic plan that had to be put in place means, of course, something similar to what was done in France, which is to have the ability to sit all of the locks on the chain and to agree them so that they can survive the gainers who work, and so that they survive the basis of perceived fair prices for their products. Because, look, with regard to the competition authorities, first, do you not have the ability to influence or influence the laws or authorities of competition? Have you ever done anything against how the competition authorities are working or how the competition laws are? Because I'm telling you, the laws and the competition authorities that allow for the abuses that are taking place in the distribution and industry on the owners and that, on the other hand, they are unable to guarantee a market price for the owners I don't value, they must be changed, at least try. I don't know if you'll have the ability, but I'm not worth it. If on the one hand the distribution is continually using milk as a claim product and selling losses and in this country, in Galicia, there is not even a euro of penalty for distribution, and on the other hand, we know, and you know, that industry is doing daily practices of abuse on the livestock and nothing happens here or the laws fail or competition authorities fail, but something fails. And what are you doing? That's what they had to say here, what you're doing. And in the strategic plan they also had to do what resources they would mobilize to mobilize land so that farms would depend less on the purchase of inputs and that would depend less on the volatility of inputs in the market. None of that said, Counselor, none of that said. And the proof that you haven't prepared any of this is that you've had to resort to diverting attention from past times, from previous governments. I was surprised that he had finished his intervention at that moment, because I thought he was going to say something else. You spoke of the two-party government of Zapatero, but of its very little measures. Then you, as the People's Party of Galicia, cannot speak of inheritances received. Here are the only years when there was no government of the People's Party there were six, and you want to make those six years responsible for what has not been done in the rest of the thirty. Don't take our hair off! You have had enough time to implement a rural model and a milk sector model, and that is what we have. That's why you bet: an aged rural, a rural with an obvious abandonment, a rural with no expectations for the future.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG119.u71	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG119.u72	That's what you left. So let's see if in the last intervention we can get more optimistic out of here, see if you have any more measures than those 7 million dollars for the circulator and those 51 million euros that are moving forward, i.e., they don't charge the livestock in two years, that were the only two measures that you came here to say. The rest of the grants that come from the Rural Development Program we already know, and there would only be a lack of them. If there are EUR 1 billion for six years, there would only be no lines of grant! Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG119.u73	Thank you. Mr. Pablo García has the floor for the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG119.u74	Thank you, President. Counselor, with the good that we were going... once we had a problem... I think we're going back. First, I don't have any complex with Government Zapatero, i.e., I haven't been to Government Zapatero or Government Tourin... No, no, I mean, I don't have any sort of... I'm telling you to save them if you want to... I don't have any complex. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Secondly, in any case we go back to the same, we compare different moments. Mrs. Paula, that's right. Mrs. Prado, I had nothing to do with it. I had nothing to do with it. When they hit the Agrarian Unions, that certainly has to do with it, as Mrs Iglesias also said, and I've had it said. Indeed, I've always been at the demonstrations of Agricultural Unions and you've always been manifesting with Rouco Varela and with the bishops on Sundays. And each one was where he had to be, so I'm never going to have any kind of complex from where everyone showed up. [[Applause]] Each one is where he is and thinks what he thinks, and that's it. Mrs. Pacín, not a minute. Some topics – I repeat – are subjects of oral understanding, nothing more. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Let's see, Counselor, says he's been working for one minute. Today is the minute one. These measures that you have developed, that is, this problem is happening the other day when you announce these measures? Is this the minute one of this problem? Is it a minute or a minute? No, this problem has been a year ago, and you announced these measures that – I repeat – I don't think they're the solution, but I think, at least, someone has been worried about saying what we can do right away, where we can scratch, in addition to listing everything we have ordinary. That actually didn't answer the question of how much more a Frenchman pays for all these measures: 4 cents more per litre, more than you say, per litre. So we're equal, they're four centimeters more in liter. Nothing new. Counsellor, let's go back to the fault of the OPL. Ma'am, what did you guys do to help the OPLs? What has been done so far to help OPL? Now they say they have to make 7 million, they're going to spend 7 million euros, 7 million now, in minute one, in minute one they're going to spend 7 million euros. You said so. So far, when measures were claimed to help create the OPLs and to operate the OPLs, were we framed? That's what we were told. Now they say they're going to help with 7 million euros to make it work. Counsellor, the OPL works if everyone works, the OPL can't work in a policy framework that's not the right one and with a government like what we have, because in the end that's what we're discussing. Counselor, I want a government like the French, even if it's illegal. And so that's what we're deciding. I mean, the French cattle, in the meantime, from here to December, have a horizon of 0.34? Yes or no? Yes. And then we'll look. No, Counselor, I repeat, tell the yellow gauntlet now clearly. The ones you cover at 0.25 you have to be quiet because that's the price you have to charge, and point. That's what you say, that's what you say in a market competition, in a free and competitive market. That, to see! that they explain to me – that I have already asked the illustrious lawyer and economist Abel Losada, that I didn't understand anything about the market – that the milk in Galicia, which is paid at 0.20, remains uncollected, while in France it is paid at 0.30 and it is collected all. Plus, in Galicia at 0.20, you don't have to pick it up, and you call for it to be picked up and they say that until the campaign they're going to collect, then you stay again. We're cheating, but in any case, it's picked up at 0.20 or 0.18. And, yes, it's picked up in Andalusia at 0.25 or 0.26, with market law. What market is this, Counselor? This is a political problem, which you haven't just understood, it's a political problem and it needs a politician at the front, I don't know if you, the president of the board or anyone else; a government at the front, which has so far not been. And you can't come and talk to me about the zero minute now. Because until now you – and repeat all that you said here – said all this was a lie. And all these measures, which probably made sense a while ago, many of them, refused to. Then don't come and talk to me in one minute. And three questions, which is what we are talking about, indeed. What do you think of the French model? Do you think we should go that way or not? Two: what are you going to say, or what did you say, at the meeting that was held in the Ministry? Because here I should say that as an advisor. What are you going to ask the Ministry for, what do you put 1.5 million euros for liquidity? Counsellor, these millions will be deserted, just like their 300,000 euros left to inject liquidity into farms, which there were no requests because they are absolutely inoperative. So there will be deserts. You were worth the speech, perfect. That's why when I told him that the glove that's at home says, "What's this aunt talking about?" Because at all nothing of what you said is considered a help.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG119.u75	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG119.u76	Counsellor, in September there will be a summit of ministers in the European Union in early September. What are you going to say? What will Galicia say? Do you want a parliamentary agreement to defend a position with Madrid to take Europe? Do you want something? Do you need anything? That would be an approach, what we are going to tell you in Europe, since this problem is global. It's global, but in the meantime, here are six or seven cents less. It's not the same as global for everyone, because actually, as you said, Galicia doesn't live isolated; but at entry 6 or 7 cents less. Unless we go back to the beginning – and then I take back everything I said before – if you go out here and clearly say: Gandroys, don't go to Lalin – by the way, I don't know if the 15,000 were real or not, in any case there were many...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG119.u77	Mr. Garcia, stop it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG119.u78	...and in any case they have a lot of problems, I don't know who I am, I'm not. But what's got to be clear about the sector: Gloves, they have to adapt to produce 0.25, and that's what there is, or we have a plan for you to cover up like the French. And that's what you have to define them, but not one thing and the opposite, not the two things at once. Or this is the price that you have to charge or we'll have to set the measures so that you can charge exactly the same as the others, which is how the market works, that such market that works so well and that we see that later in practice it also has its eels. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG119.u79	Thank you very much, Mr. García. For the Popular Group, Mrs. García Pacín.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG119.u80	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs. Churches, you recognize, or assert in your argument, that industry has made or has pacts that will be unpunished. But it turns out that these pacts are visible, according to you, according to a sanction. I mean, if the Administration is capable of sanctioning industry, then that impunity you claim I don't see it. We're really going back to the old one: one thing and its opposite. I believe, Counsellor, that nationalist policies, when they had management responsibilities, gave their fruits and the dairy business owners knew who made efforts, who responded, where the BNG was in that bipartisan government. Because, Mrs. Peace, you just told us here the criticism you made to me, but there's very little; that is, you brought here the prices of a few months, of certain periods, and you said they were nationalists, that thanks to the nationalists they had a few prices... they sucked. I mean, the governments of the People's Party that in a very close campaign were able to assert that the regulations, that all legislative issues, had an impact on the markets and that we were on the line, in the right way, Counsellor, where we must continue to object... because, ladies and gentlemen, today at Inlac, in the Milky Interprofessional, where things are decided, still the distribution is not present, still the fraudulent practices, as you said, the use of milk as a claim product, and other primary productions, still there can be complaints, still there can be complaints, still the Administration with the plans for inspection and control of current regulations, and the result of governments of the People's Party, is able to denounce these practices, to continue to fear the achievement of the interests of all, including consumers. Because here we must all live together, Mr. Sánchez. What can't be said is that specific models of the People's Party are the ones that brought ruin to the countryside. Because, Mr. Sánchez, you should get closer to the rural area that we know many, to the rural live, where young people bet on initiatives, on entrepreneurship, where there are kindergartens, where there are older children with recognized dependence and with many public services... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG119.u81	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG119.u82	...where there are new technologies and where the virtual agrarian office works. [[Murmurs.]] It really changed, because you pejoratively try to transfer to society the case of 0.20 cents, they said – I think I listened carefully – that I thought there were farms where the milk was not collected. And I've really been looking, really. Part of the production may be at a price, but the whole, more than 80% of the production, has a price, where we will bar them, where the margins, are in contracts, in signed contracts, which up to recently could not be done. I really believe that the autonomous administration has done and carried out all those demands that the unions have put on him at the table. Because they wanted compulsory contracts, and they have compulsory contracts; a milk package that had to be modified to suit market and sector developments in general. There were a lot of demands, extensions of a month to re-sign the contracts once they have been completed or put into effect the new decree. It's all taken care of. I don't understand that lack of disposition. Only – as the speakers said – to divert attention. Because today he spoke of everything, Counselor, even of the Church, as we have been used to. We also spoke of Navia de Suanna. Really, burned earth, that's what you left there for 2006, that's what you can suck, because it's in your luggage. And I could look for the news and the headlines, they won't repeat themselves, nationalist spokesperson. Or would they be glad they'd repeat themselves? Because their faces deserve it. [[Murmurs.]] Really, Counsellor, what do we intend to support mobilisations? No, no, no, no. You respect them? How could it be no other way! [[Murmurs.]] The pressure of the glovers, of the mayors, yes, those mayors that you de-ed, Mr. Garcia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG119.u83	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG119.u84	...these mayors that you fire...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG119.u85	Go finish, Mrs. Pacín, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG119.u86	Because mayors have an obligation to defend the interests of holding owners...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG119.u87	Mr. Garcia!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG119.u88	...supporting a determined government, a government that continues to fight, where in Inlac you have to coordinate all the steps of the chain, where you have to approach a construction of prices that leaves sufficient profit margin, a common goal that we are struggling to achieve. And you don't add up, you stay, because as opposition really isn't an alternative. [[Murmurs.]] Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG119.u89	Thank you very much. The councilwoman, Mrs. Rosa Quintana, has the floor to close the debate.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG119.u90	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mrs. Peace, you didn't have to bring me that sample of burnt land because I rode it five days before you. I know what that area was like because I went there worrying about what we have to do to correct what some bastard did that would happen. [[Applause]] Then, in the league of everyone who does that damage, I'd like to meet her, not with this bringing me here a little bit of land that – as I say – I stepped five days before you. Let's see if we can organize... [[Murmurs.]] Mrs. Peace, I don't know if there's reader understanding, if there's auditory understanding, if there's any understanding. I don't know what kind of understanding, I don't know what kind of language, I don't know how to explain things. Look, my office is a work office. No one comes to my office to wave me. No, you're sorry, I said in my office I meet with people, and I meet people to work, I meet people to analyze the situation they have, and I meet people to look with people to solve people's problems, not what I'm going to look at. [[Murmurs.]] You tell me someone, regardless of any kind of ideology or work you have, that you've asked me for an interview and you haven't received it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG119.u91	They didn't ask you, Mr. Fajardo. I don't want to put the phone book in order.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG119.u92	Mr. Fajardo, of course, also knows everything, but I with whom I am really surprised here today – and I have to say so – is with Mr. Garcia. With all due respect, Mr. Garcia: Superman at your side nothing, eh! Nothing! Now it turns out you have a superoid, which is able to hear conversations I have with I don't know who, what I say and what I stop saying. [[Laughter]] Where do you get that I've called no one, that they pick me up, that they leave until after this campaign, before the campaign? Well, that seems a little strong to say. But I'm telling you, quiet, I'm not intermediateing with any industry, I'm not brokering with any producer. The producer sector, because of me, will have no sanctions. Don't worry, there's no call. [[Murmurs.]] I'm telling you, Mr. García, Mrs. Paz, that before they said that when I called the industry I didn't even come to the meeting, it's that I called on Saturday at 6:00 p.m. the industry for Monday at 1:00 p.m. in Lugo and there they all came: the whole industry. The industry missed a meeting with agricultural organizations because they were afraid, because sometimes they sat down at that meeting after they got a penalty of 87 million euros. Then I also understand that you have a certain fear. [[Murmurs.]] But look, we're working...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG119.u93	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG119.u94	I mean, in my first intervention, I think 10 or 12 minutes have been talking about the measures we were going to take. I have to say that the Nicholson report, which has just been adopted in the European Parliament, collects all the proposals that have been made since Galicia, because Galicia was the only autonomous community – to see the weight Galicia has in the milk sector – where the ministry has delegated its representation in Galicia so that we were before the European Union to defend our position, which was what we wanted for the dairy sector, and that report is adopted in the European Parliament. Here if they said so many things today that the truth is that I don't know... today what we haven't talked about, curiously, was from a milk group. Yeah, did you talk about a milk group? Yeah, milk food? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] It's always about Milk Food. But I think most of us here, in this room, we remember the year 2005, when a government pact was made between the PSOE and the Block, and one of the measures of that government pact was to make a Greek dairy group. Yes or no? And it didn't work out. [[Murmurs.]] It's not done. The topic of Milk Food is constantly akin to us, but it is never talked about, for example, Acolat. Acolat is a union of 10 cooperatives that started working. And look, from the year 2012 until now they continue to increase their production every day, and they went from working with 2,000 kilograms a day to being over 2 million kilograms. So that union of 10 cooperatives, I think, is people in the sector themselves engaged in production, but also committed to a transformation that gives greater value added to the product. And in those lines we've seen ourselves worrying -- as I said -- from the minute one working. It wasn't from the minute one of my appearance here today, no, it was from the minute one that we arrived at the Government. And now, to confirm our commitment once again, as if they didn't find out in the 10 or 12 minutes I've been talking about the measures we've taken and we're going to continue working with them, it's now nearly 150 million euros already delivered to the sector. Of course, some people say, it's help coming from the European Union. But those aids have to be fought, too, eh! Man, man! [[Murmurs.]] Just look at you, the flat rate you proposed, I don't know if you know that was 60 percent less payout for the gain earners. Those were his proposals, 60 percent less than what the flat rate was!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG119.u95	Mr. Garcia, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG119.u96	Mr. Garcia, when we get to the government, man, please, we meet with the proposal of the flat fee. The flat rate, 60% less help...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG119.u97	Sorry, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG119.u98	Lines for the circulator by financing their interest; they won't have to pay anything for the interest. Promotion of dairy products. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] We're going to try, working with the Health Council, with nutrition experts, to advise society to continue consuming milk, because lately you know that people are not eating milk. That's also the government's responsibility, I suppose. But we're going to work to improve the feeding of our children, our elders and our people in Galicia and bet on a milk of different quality. I, ladies and gentlemen, as it gives the same thing to the opposition, they believe that only they are the ones who talk to the owners and that they understand the problems the owners have, so they will continue to be wrong. I tell the Members to support the government-supporting group that, since the Galician Union, in all the councils conducted by our president of the Union, we work every day in the defence of our rural areas. Every day, no matter who weighs it! Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-08-04-DSPG119.u99	Thank you very much, Counselor. We're out of order, we're up. Thank you very much and good night.
