ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u1	They're taking their seats. Let's start the session with agenda item 6, questions for oral answer by the President of Galician Union. He asked Mr. President of the Galician Council of Mr. José Luis Méndez Romeu of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the economic strategy of the Government of Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u2	You have the word Mr. Méndez Romeo to ask his question.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u3	Mr. President, a few days ago you took part in the inauguration of an important Congress of the Spanish Confederation of Directors. His speech is published and was delivered before the principal executives of the Whoiswho, of the Spanish companies of the IBEX 35 and others. You first underlined, as an outstanding aspect, the appointment of El-King as honorary ambassador of the Way of Santiago, and then announced some common places: the talent of the people, the beautiful country. He missed the shellfish but he didn't forget the beer – at least at that point we agreed, it's an excellent brand. In the past, you mentioned three reasons to invest but didn't explain them. History, a dubious reason for any company; human capital, where we have strong competitors; and internationalization, I suppose, would be thinking of Index and Citroën. No concrete reference, no remarkable feature or singular attractive element to capture the interest of so select audience, as if nothing had to offer to Joina. He didn't talk about incentives, neither action lines, nor logistical facilities, nor funding; nothing that was really new or attractive. The audience, logically, gave him a polite applause and moved on to something else. I understand that it was not easy to explain that in Galicia the spending on innovation is minimal, that the extension of the broadband is of Spain's minors and that the conditions for doing business are exactly the worst in Spain. It wasn't easy to explain that new jobs are low-skilled for hours or days. Better talk about beer. It's hard for some companies to invest in Galicia after their money. In recent years, foreign capital capture is less than symbolic. The sale of R Cable to a Basque operator, after giving you 65 million public funds from Greece, is the ultimate loss of own capital and a good metaphor for its government: a country for sale and settlement. Mr Feijóo, a decline in the occupied population, a decline in membership, a decline in wages, a decline in labour stability, unemployment coverage. Do you have any smart strategy? Something like a competitive economic policy?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u4	The President of the Board has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u5	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me remind you of a few words from your predecessor in charge of a Christmas month three years ago, in the first control session after winning the election in 2012. He said his predecessor: "By 2013, Galicia will have an estimated increase of 40,000 more unemployed. We'll go down the dramatic figure of 300,000 men and women who don't find work." Your Honor, you will understand that your predecessor has not met any of the economic forecasts. I'm telling you he didn't make it right because Galicia is much stronger than the Socialist Party believes. That's why today's unemployment is in 23,500 people less than a year ago, and that's why today we have 53,600 people less on the unemployment lists than when the legislation started. So today, Your Honor, the unemployment rate remains 3.4 points below the average of Spain – and you see Spain is creating jobs – and so today the gross domestic product is growing above 2%, while it decreases at the end of its legislation and at the beginning of this second legislation. That's why today, Your Honor, the Greek companies are exporting more than ever in history. See if we have reason to invest in Galicia that we never exported more than we've exported in 2013, in 2014 and in 2015. So now, Your Honor, the industrial production index is rising in Galicia above Spain. Your Honor, it's curious that you talk about whether we have or have no economic strategy. You've been criticising that economic strategy for seven years, and now you wonder if we have it? Look, in the short term, we're approving all the autonomous Community budgets in the long run, which most socialist administrations do not. In the medium and long term, we will present this month the Strategic Plan of the Greek economy until 2020, to grow, ladies and gentlemen, to improve the well-being of people, to look for how we can push sectors – especially the whole primary sector – and to insist on the information society. Of course we have a strategy, Your Honor, we have a very clear strategy. From 2009 to 2014 we have maintained the solvency of the autonomous community; in 2015 we stabilize our public accounts and start economic recovery and in 2016 we are strengthening our economy and we have more resources. What are we going to do to continue with that economic strategy? Four things: reducing taxes, reducing unemployment and encouraging employment; investing in growing technology, infrastructure, sanitation, supply and the environment; and extending economic recovery to all families. Your Honor, I understand that perhaps you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u6	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u7	...it doesn't matter to you to be the Autonomous Community with greater institutional stability, to be an autonomous solvency community, to be a reliable autonomous community. What we cannot, Your Honor, is to solve the contradictions of the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party and the manifestations of their spokesmen. Thank you very much, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u8	Thank you very much. Mr. Méndez Romeo's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u9	Surely, Mr President, the citizens would appreciate it if you cared more about them and less about the Socialist Party. [[Applause]] Look, you can count on it any way you like, you've got more unemployed today than the day you got to the government; you have GDP today under 2007. And with regard to the budgets, from which you draw your chest, Mr. Feijóo, at least execute what is approved here because they are unable. I can't run social spending or investment. And on those promises of the Regional Economic Plan, I would like to remind you that in the last Regional Economic Plan, you stopped investing how much, 5,000 million euros? A little more serious! Look, Mr Feijóo, the fact is that our country's working reality is getting worse in wages, stability and qualifications. Do you think we're out of the crisis when the new contracts last less than a week by 30%, or less than three months by half? That's what you call getting out of the crisis? Did we leave the crisis with wages of 600 or 800 euros? With jobs... listen to your economy 4.0, your jobs are: teleoperator, waitress, reconnaissance or trade dependent. Is that the model of the future where the country will be supported? Mr. Feijóo, speak seriously, do we leave the crisis when we leave the unemployed out of coverage? It's already 70% of them who lack coverage. When do we replace wages worthy of timely benefits to alleviate poverty in this kind of Christmas tombol that are riding? Of course, there are elections, of course. Are we out of the crisis when there are more people than ever having trouble reaching the end of the month? This week's newspapers: people are giving up the doctor or dentist in Galicia for lack of means; it's cold because they can't afford the heating. Mr President, is it reasonable to jeopardize the future of social security as they are, and the payment of pensions, for this wage model?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u10	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u11	Is it reasonable that you are making electoral wines all day while Brussels already claims a new tax adjustment of 9,000 million euros? I understand that the distinguished executives who spoke to them couldn't tell them that data, but it's unacceptable for you that day to give up being the leader of a country with economic strategy projects...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u12	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u13	...to become, once again, a political commentator. Are you really as defeated as it seems?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u14	The President of the Board has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u15	Your Honor, it gives me the feeling that you haven't been in that opening, because, the truth – I say without false modesty – has not been transferred to the reception of the people who have heard the intervention of the president of the board. But since it's recorded, you can observe that you're actually playing your ear. But it sounds like it happens, because nothing told me about the apocalyptic forecasts of the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party when the legislation began. Nothing told me that today we have 53,000 less unemployed people than when the legislation started. Nothing wants to remember that, when you were counsellor, in the last year, 54,000 jobs were destroyed in Galicia. Not a year! Nothing said to me, Your Honor, I suppose, because you think having an economic strategy a government is somewhat exotic, considering the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party, for example, in the Deputy of Lugo; for example, Mr Zapatero's economic policy or, for example, Mr Sánchez' proposals for the next elections. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u16	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u17	Your Honor, having an economic strategy is not exotic. The economic strategy has existed in Galicia since the first day we took possession: maintaining self-government, maintaining public services, sharing the crisis among all citizens and restoring the country's economy. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Your Honor, it is clear that when the Socialist Party governs, the economy is founded and employment is destroyed. And when the People's Party rules, economic recovery begins. [[Protests.]] Your Honor, I don't say so, the citizens tell you when they vote. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u18	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u19	Your Honor, do you think there is any citizen who can consider that socialist governments, in terms of economics and employment, manage better than those of the People's Party? No citizen, not even the voters of the Socialist Party! [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Ladies and gentlemen, how is it possible that you are against abolishing succession tax? Ladies and gentlemen, how is it possible that you are against lowering taxes to families? Ladies and gentlemen, how is it possible that you are against a family card for Galician children? Your Honor, if you take the opposite to yourself, you take the opposite to the Greek families, so I'm surprised you haven't even read the IGE survey. How can you talk about the survey of the IGE when 90% of the Greeks score more than 5 their level of satisfaction; when 75% of the homes score between 5 and 10 their economic satisfaction or the high level of satisfaction of the Greeks with their job? Your Honor, what country do you live in? I live in Galicia. What are you doing? Are you trying to bring here some of Ferraz's arguments? Your Honor, if we don't care what happens in Ferraz! We're interested in what happens in Galicia and how we live in Galicia! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u20	It's over, president.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u21	Your Honor, by the way, about economic growth, in Galicia, we're growing by 2, 2.1%, more than in Germany, more than in France, more than in Italy, more than in Portugal. [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] Your Honor, speaking of investment, follow the investment... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u22	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u23	...the aeronautical policy we are developing in Galicia. They've gone to the final phase of all the major aircraft builders in the world: Airbus, Boeing, Indra and Inaer. All of you, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u24	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u25	What are you talking about, more than a Galician who is recovering in spite of the Socialist Party? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Thank you very much, Your Honor. [[Applause]] Ask Mr. President of the Galician Council of D. Francisco Jesus Jorquera Caselas, of the G.P. of the Galician Nationalist Block, on the balance of the incidence for Galicia of central government management
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u26	Mr. Jorquera has the floor to ask his question.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u27	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Feijóo, finished the legislate in the state and ends with noise of drums of war, as in the days of the Lord of the Azores. It ends the minister's lawmaking that he didn't notice in the jaguar that his husband had in the garage; the lawmaking of "Luis, be strong" or of "Bárcenas already such... a legislation marked by corruption, the cutting of civic and social rights or the betting of public budgets on the service of the bank and creditors of debt. But this is a control session for your Government, Mr. Feijóo, not a control session for the Rajoy Government. That's why I ask you what balance does what that government, the Rajoy Government, represented for Galicia. The Rajoy government will also be remembered as the government of zero competences for Galicia. You have reached at this period the 100 percent of the competences you have applied for; zero requested competences, zero achieved. The Rajoy government will also be remembered as the government of recentralization, the government of the imposition of cuts on autonomous communities to provoke the dismantling of public services and social policies. The government that refused to comply with the law to review the financing system, Mr. Feijóo, with your complicity, because you did nothing to defend Galician interests against the Rajoy Government. He accepted a restructuring of our financial sector that left us without credit institutions, leaving the way forward for our savings policy. He accepted a change in electrical legislation that ruined our renewables, a strategic sector for Galicia. As you accepted that also in fishing, agriculture or the naval sector, the Central Government would turn its back on Galicia's interests. He accepted, for example, that the Central Government should not fulfil all commitments made with Navantia. He agreed that he would refuse to build the floating dam or that Navantia would become dependent on the Ministry of Defence, instead of taking advantage of the veto to recover the Fene shipyard for the civil naval construction. Do you know what the consequence is, Mr Feijóo? That in 2011 the Ferrol naval sector had 10,000 workers and today there are fewer than 600 workers in auxiliary companies and 500 of the main staff with workload. That's why I ask you, Mr. Feijóo, what do you balance with what the Rajoy Government has represented for Galicia?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u28	Thank you very much, Mr. Jorquera. The President of the Board has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u29	Your Honor, if we make a little memory I don't remember that in 2011, when we were about to hold the general elections in Spain, I was asked by the BNG that represented to Galicia the Government of Mr. Zapatero. I suppose because they would agree with that government. I suppose because they would agree with that government despite leaving Galicia, like the rest of Spain, after the breakup. [[Murmurs.]] Now ask me about the balance sheet... [[Mr. Gallego Lomba pronounces words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u30	Mr. Gallego! I'm sorry, president. Mr. Gallego, Mr. Gallego, Mr. Gallego! You already have a call to order. Second call to order. [[Mr. Gallego Lomba pronounces words that are not perceived.]] You know what the third means. [[Murmurs.]] Go on, president.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u31	Ladies and gentlemen, there are a lot of people who are still identified with Mr. Rodríguez Zapatero and, consequently, I think these kinds of demonstrations are normal. [[Murmurs.]] But look, Mr. Jorquera, speaking of our own, this government of Mr. Rajoy has avoided the rescue of the Welsh families; that is, he has avoided the collapse of pensions, he has avoided the collapse of the property values of families, he has maintained the financing of education and public health, he has avoided, for example, the tolls on the Greek highways, he has avoided the corralits in the banks in Galicia and the rest of Spain, but obviously he has done more, Your Honor, should know. [[Murmurs.]] Look, in front of the Socialist Party, which destroyed thousands and thousands of jobs, will end the legislation with 600,000 new jobs. Faced with the Socialist Party, which was decreasing and deepening the country's economy, this legislation will end with the greatest increase in the European Union's economy in Spain. And in front of a Socialist Party, with which we had to pay public debt to the interests of 6% and 7%, the public debt now has negative interests. Your Honor, I think things have changed significantly. [[Applause]] But of course in Galicia, since we are Spanish to you and me, we also benefit from the situation. Indeed, Your Honor, the Greek economy is growing – we say it first – more than the European Union average. In Galicia, for example, we've just had to pay back 400 million euros to the Central Government for not having to return anything because the negative liquidations are suspended. I had to return 400 million euros in 2009 and 2010 to the Government of Spain, and now it turns out not only we don't just return, but we get our debts paid by the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party. [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, there's something very important. President Rajoy's government, in addition to investing 5,000 million euros in Galicia at the worst moment, has done what it did to maintain the equality of the Greeks with the rest of the citizens of the country's historic nationalities. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] You gentlemen, who are you with? Are you with those who want privileges at the expense of the pocket and heritage of the Greeks? Are you with those who want to break to eat more at the expense of the Greeks and the rest of the Spanish families?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u32	It's over, president.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u33	Are you with Bildu or with the Republican Left or are you with Galicia? Your Honor, we're with Galicia and that's why we're going to continue with Galicia; you don't know. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u34	Mr. Jorquera Houselas has the floor for the reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u35	Look, Mr. Feijóo, you have a very bad memory. The Government of Zapatero's money order of an antisocial character, when he accepted the Troika's dictates, was agreed by the Socialist Party and the People's Party with the round opposition to the Galician Nationalist Block. [[Applause]] But look, we're actually going to talk about Galicia's interests and privileges. Tell the Navantia workers how you defended Galician interests in front of the central government. This week they will be revealed; it is certainly to thank the results of their management. Where are the 2,000 jobs at the ship repair centre in Ferrol that you promised to do, Mr. Feijóo? Look, do you know what the outcome of your submission is? Which the four oil tankers will do in Cadiz –privileges – and Ferrol only the crumbs. Tell our gloves too, Mr. Feijóo; this week they're going to manifest themselves. Goodbye to half the Galician farms, I don't know how this headline is read. Do you know what the Spanish Agricultural Guarantee Fund says? That a month after the Madrid agreement, which you have sanctified, Galicia is the territory of the State where you pay less for milk. Our glovers pay an average of 28 cents per litre, six less than in Andalusia, Mr. Feijóo. In the past year, 528 farms have been closed in Spain, 383 farms in Galicia; more than 72%, Mr. Feijóo. Look, explain it to our sailors. The Welsh trawler's fleet has to tie up at the weekend, while the Spanish Government allows the Portuguese fleet to make it in our docks, making it with our resources and our market. Tell the sailors in the siege, Mr. Feijóo. The Spanish Government gives every Basque boat – as it speaks of the Basques – as much as the entire fleet of Malpica or Sada. The sailors in the siege have been camped for 40 days and you have not been worthy to receive them. And even above all, they have to listen to anyone who says they're picnics when they're defending their children's bread...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u36	It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u37	...Mr. Feijó. Because when we talk about defending Galician interests, we don't talk about abstractions, we talk about eating, we can live on our work. But that doesn't matter to you, say what you say, Mr. Feijóo. You'd rather obey Mr. Rajoy than defend Galicia's interests.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u38	Thank you very much, Mr. Jorquera. The President of the Board has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u39	Your Honor, it is clear in the House that the Socialist Party has begun to hurt things when the BNG has not supported it. Since the BNG didn't support him, the Socialist Party started to make a mistake. [[Murmurs.]] Look, the BNG has approved Mr. Rodríguez Zapatero's 2005 budget. And in 2005 the Socialist Government approved the naval conversion of Ferrol. Yes, Your Honor. [[Murmurs.]] He prejudiced 1,900 workers, fired 2,000 workers indirectly, and extended Astano's veto ten years. Yes, Your Honor, that's what the Socialist Party and the BNG did. [[Applause]] Your Honor, today Astano is completely busy, Astano, 100 percent busy. Yes, Your Honor. Yes, Your Honor. And we'll keep working, and there'll be ships in Ferrol in Bazán, don't hesitate. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Because they doubted the fleet and will continue to doubt the contracts that are formalizing in different Arab countries. You and I know that. What we have to say is to announce it at the right time, when Arab countries consider it appropriate, not at a time of geopolitical difficulty in the whole area. [[Applause]] But since you don't want to tell the truth, it doesn't matter. But if you were the ones who thought that with 8% of Galicia's investments it was armored! And it turns out that in full economic crisis state investments were in Galicia between 12% and 14%. Ladies and gentlemen, what if we don't run 5,000 million euros in a legislation? [[Murmurs.]] Your Honor, the AVE of the complete Atlantic axis, 90% of the AVE with the Meseta, running or finishing. Your Honor, EUR 1 billion in supply and sanitation and EUR 1.2 billion in road infrastructure. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Like they're not executed, Your Honor? [[Applause]] They are running and are being planned. Look, Your Honor, I understand that it is much easier to answer why we support Mr. Rajoy's Government than to answer why you supported Mr. Zapatero's Government and Mrs. Magdalena Álvarez. Yes, Your Honor. [[Murmurs.]] BNG did not support Mr Blanco's government investments, nor did it support Mrs Ana Pastor's investments, but supported Mrs Magdalena Álvarez's investments. You're in Galician patriotism with that so obvious decision, as much Greek and as nationalist as you do. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Look, Your Honor, the Government of Galicia will continue to defend the interests of the country, you have no doubt. If in all these years government with less resources in democracy has invested between 12% and 14% of all its resources, it is worth continuing to support that government. That's why we will continue to support that government, but above all, we will continue to support it...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u40	It's over, president.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u41	...because he believes in the equality of the Greeks and the Catalans; because he does not accept Catalan privileges against Galicia; because he does not accept constitutional ruptures to benefit and harm one another; because we do not accept to be an autonomous community of the second level; because we are as autonomous as Mr. Mas and in Galicia we have a self-government that does not have the Government of Catalonia that you support. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u42	Finish, president.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u43	That's why we accept this government, and that's why we feel satisfied with the same deal in Catalonia as in Galicia. I know, Your Honor, that you want...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u44	Finish, President, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u45	...to Asymmetric Spain. No, Your Honor. We want Spain's equality of citizens, Galicia at the same level of self-government as Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u46	Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u47	Galicia is a solven community...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u48	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u49	...and what you support are communities at risk of breakdown and...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u50	Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u51	...have a situation similar to Greece. Thank you very much, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u52	Next question. Mr. President of the Galician Board of Da Yolanda Díaz Pérez, G.P. of the Alternative Galga de Left on the management of the Government of Greece in the field of health
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u53	Mrs. Díaz Pérez has the floor to ask her question.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u54	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Feijó, you are quite sure you really live on Mount Pio, you don't know anything at all. He speaks of equality, Mr. Feijóo, and I will now speak of equality thanks to that government that you both defend and thanks to that party that you so well represent, the People's Party. Thanks to your policies, Mr. Feijóo, in our country, for the first time in our history, there is no healing for everyone, it is no longer universal, Mr. Feijóo. Thanks to the People's Party there are first and second citizens. Thank you, too, for your policies, for lowering taxes, citizens and citizens are not the same, no; there are pharmaceutical compensations even for chronic patients, those who suffer from cancer and serious diseases, who have to pay or repay the pharmaceutical benefit, Mr Feijóo. That is the equality you proclaim, Mr. Feijóo, from which you have just answered Mr. Jorquera right now. But we wanted to tell you, Mr Feijóo, about the chaos in which the health of this country is converted; a chaos that is a succulent business for many of those who represent the People's Party; a chaos that has the departure from privatization, that half of the public budget is going to go to private health companies; and a chaos in which, in spite of the resignations in blocks of the management teams, we already have another more rotating case. Mr. Mario González, Mr. Feijóo – those are privileges – ceases at the CHUVI and quickly passes to that fund where you just applauded, indeed, selling the Domínguez Hospital, with which you also have a private concert. And you, Mr. Feijó, applauding. The most serious thing, Mr. Feijóo is that we have 2,000 workers less in public health; the most important thing is that the centres that were serving, for example, AIDS and similar pathologies; the most serious is that they are cutting resources; the most serious, Mr. Feijóo, is that they are practicing a huge scam with this Vigo hospital. And the most serious thing, Mr Feijóo, is that you're going to have to face the European Commission for what's going on in Vigo's hospital. Look, Mr. Feijóo, I suppose you know this report which is hired by Sergas. This report says loud and clear that, in order for there to be a concession like you say there is in Vigo hospital, you have to go to the risk and adventure of the dealership. And you have to go to the risk and adventure of the dealership also in financing; that is, you can't be in charge of the Greeks and the Greeks. And, Mr Feijóo, would you like to explain to us why we are being examined before the European Commission, and why you, by committing a scam through the EIB...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u55	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u56	...incorporated 180 million euros public and 30 million ICO for that work which – I insist – is private, Mr. Feijóo? Can you explain this to the Greeks and to the Greeks? And if you can also explain why Mr. Mario González is now in a private investment fund. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u57	The President of the Board has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u58	Your Honor, after your last speeches it seemed to me that you couldn't get over it, but I was wrong, you know. He says there's a question in the European Union that he's seeing the Vigo hospital contract. Why? Because you've been denounced, of course, Your Honor! [[Laughter]] That's why we're going to show the European Union that this hospital is as public as the rest of the public hospitals in the Galician Health Service. Thank you for giving us a chance to prove it. [[Applause]] Now, Your Honor, we are responsible for the sale of private hospitals in Galicia. The Domínguez Hospital, a private hospital in Pontevedra, is sold to the current government officer. Surprising, Your Honor. In addition, we are responsible for a medical inspector of the Principality of Asturias, of the staff of the Asturias Health Service, which you have appointed, for another company that is concerned with health care. Why don't you tell the president of the Principality of Asturias, Your Honor, and you tell me, Your Honor?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u59	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u60	No, Your Honor, first he was a manager at the Central Hospital of Asturias with the Socialist Party, and now he's back in Asturias, where the Socialist Party is ruling.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u61	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u62	I understand that the truth is so powerful that it bothers even with side effects. [[Applause]] Look, Your Honor, what we're interested in is our country's public health, so our country's public health accounts for over 40% of the budget for the Galician Health Service. And we were the ones who, first, the health professionals were standing by the canyon for all these years of the economic recession. And secondly, to increase public services in every hospital in Galicia. Look, for example, at Monforte you couldn't get chemotherapy treatment; now there are over 1,000 people receiving this treatment at Monforte and you don't have to go to Lugo. In the Coruña there was an emergency service of 900 square meters, now there is an emergency service of more than 440. In Vigo – as you know – there was no hospital, except for the old hospital, there is now a new hospital. In Vigo there was only the possibility, with the previous hospital, of having, out of every 100 patients, 2 a single room. Now it's 70% of the patients. Your Honor, in Ourense, for example, we didn't have a hospital building, now we're finishing it. In Lugo we had to put the hospital to work. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] There was no radiotherapy, there were no linear accelerators, there was no nuclear medicine, there were no hemodynamics rooms, and now there's all the services that weren't there during economic prosperity. [[Applause]] Look, Your Honor, in Santiago there wasn't a completely new ICU like there is now. In Ferrol, Your Honor, there were no services, for example, of colon cancer, which is now extending to the entire Galician Health Service, and we are starting the hospital. Your Honor, at the boat they had a very old TAC, we invested 80 million in technology, and at the boat they have a TAC which is the last in the market. There was no emergency room in the Salnés hospital and no dermatology.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u63	It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u64	...no ophthalmology or most services, now there's a hospital that's expanding and has all those services. And in case you don't know, in Marine Lucense, they've been planning to expand the hospital for a long time, and today that hospital is on sale. Your Honor, I only ask you one thing. I no longer ask you to value public health as most of the Greeks, because you are part of the minority, but at least, Your Honor...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u65	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u66	...don't let it down. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u67	Mrs. Díaz Pérez's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u68	Mr. Feijóo, Monte Pio's is far more serious than we thought. Look, today the workers and workers are protesting in Vigo, Mr. Feijóo. I don't know if you think, like the sailors on Thursdays, they walk out the street because they're bored. The health professionals go out to the street today, Mr. Feijóo, because they are alarmed at what you are doing. They're alarmed because they've loaded the Healthcare Improvement Plan, because they've loaded the mental health plan, because they're privatizing everything, because they're leaving the R & D+i in private hands, because with the latest legislative remedy, as you well know, they can adjudicate those contracts to your finger, Mr. Feijóo, because it depends on you whether Amancio Ortega investigates cancer or not. That's your 19th-century model, Mr. Feijóo. Because we went to a hospital in Vigo where the counsellor told us yesterday that little less than the workers hang the pipes with strange things, so, despite being newly inaugurated, faecal waters flood the hospital. Mr. Feijóo, stop getting dizzy and tell us, once and for all, if you're going to take care of public health. Two. If you're gonna rescue that big scam that's Vigo's hospital, you're gonna get the colors out of the scam you've committed. I insist that 180 million EIB and 30 million public money, Mr Feijóo, through the ICO. That's right, you say it's a public concession contract. Lie, Mr. Feijóo! He's paying Juan Pueblo. While they do business, as faeces flood the hospital again, Mr. Feijóo, we continue to pay a canon of 68 million euros a year, which was your interest, Mr. Feijóo. You see, I don't care if Mr. Mario Rodríguez is from the People's Party or the Socialist Party, the grave thing is that he is a privileged, and that today, after leaving the CHUVI, Mr. Feijóo, thanks to his collaboration – I insist –...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u69	It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u70	...is in a private investment fund. That is a privilege, Mr. Feijóo, and not the thousands of workers who are unemployed without any kind of protection thanks to their policies.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u71	Thank you very much, Mrs. Díaz. The President of the Board has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u72	Your Honor, speaking of the professionals at Vigo Hospital, you know that now, for example, they have the cheapest parking lot in the entire network of the Galician Health Service, and, by the way, the whole city of Vigo. Yes, Your Honor, yes, and the first 30 minutes are free. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And every day it's 8 euros. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And bond professionals have 30 euros a month. Your Honor, about Vigo, you do your case to the Health Counsellor. You know a lot more than you know about health, you were the manager of one of Vigo's hospitals, and I can assure you that when the health advisor talks about health, you should at least listen. [[Applause]] Your Honor, I was telling you that the only objective you have is to desist the public health we fund the Greeks because you are interested in nothing but destruction, exclusively. Try this, you just have to see how you and your group are. That massive destruction that you pose of all public services, reflects that the Greeks do not agree with you. In fact, in this survey of the Galego Institute of Statistics, the best rated public services in Galicia are health, and then education; the highest score, 5.98, public health, and 5.44, the second best score, public education. Your Honor, do you see that most of the Greeks don't live in Monte Pio, that we live in Galicia? You're the one who's against most of the Greeks simply for ideological planning, and not for a good-faith approach and to recognize what we do well for the Greeks. You don't want to recognize him. [[Applause]] Look, Your Honor, the health budget for 2016 is again the biggest increase; more than 100 million euros on the previous year's budget. And we're going to end the legislation with 70% of the Greeks with a new hospital or an extended hospital in our health area. I know you're upset. You're still despising Vigo's hospital. As long as you despising that hospital, 1,700 people have been operated in that hospital. The other day, there was a liver transplant. You keep disparaging the hospital. High hospitalization, Your Honor, 5,800 high hospitalization. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And specialized consultations, more than 117,000 consultations. Emergency response, more than 28,000 emergency response [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Look, Your Honor, the accelerator that gets into Vigo – I know it bothers, Your Honor – the accelerator that we put into Vigo, Your Honor, [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u73	Mr. Losada!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u74	...destinate treatments in 70% of the time.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u75	Excuse me, president, excuse me a moment. Mr. Losada, you have the second call to order with the warning of what the third means. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Continue, President, continue.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u76	Thank you, Your Honor. Don't worry, we won't miss Vigo. We didn't miss him in the hospital or fail him in the situation they're going through. We're not going to miss Vigo. We never did, Your Honor. We never did. [[Applause]] Look, Your Honor, in case you're interested, in case you're interested, Your Honor, when you say we're not providing health...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u77	Go finish, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u78	...we have attended more than 3,000 patients of hepatitis C, we are the third autonomous community with more treatment of hepatitis C. We have invested 75 million euros in hepatitis C, Your Honor, we are an autonomous community that values public health, that works in public health, and that, despite those who care about it, the public health of Galicia is one of the best, not from Spain, but from the European regions. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u79	Finish, president.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u80	Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u81	We continue with the development... Mr. Fajardo, do you also want a call to order? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] We continue with the development... Mr. Fajardo, first call to order. We continue with the development of the agenda. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. Popular of Galicia, at the initiative of Da Cristina Isabel Romero Fernández and seven other Members, on the realization by the Government of Galicia of the necessary management for the creation, promotion and dissemination of the tourist product Health tourism
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u82	No amendments have been tabled to this non-law proposal. If you leave her, Mrs. Romero, you have the floor to make your proposal. Please be quiet, please, that we continue the development of the agenda. Continue, Mrs. Romero.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u83	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, very good morning to all of you. We have the natural resource, the mineral-medicine waters. We have infrastructure, equipment and quality services. Only the creation of a new tourist product, the tourism product "Health tourism". I don't seem to... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u84	Give your voice to the scene. See, Mrs. Romero, see if there's any sound.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u85	Do you hear me now? Yes or no? Good. After this interruption, as I looked up, I want to greet the representatives of Galician Balnearios who are in the gallery. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] He said we have the natural resource, which is our mineral-medicine water, that we have equipment, we have quality infrastructures and services, and what we now need is the creation of the tourist product Health tourism, and this is what this initiative is about. All international experts agree that this activity is a growing trend worldwide, and in fact, OMT is working on a study on medical health tourism because of the enormous potential of this product. OECD states that annual health tourism generates more than 75,000 million euros. Thus, the last edition of Fitur has already counted on a specific section for health tourism, because of the increase this sector is having in the Spanish tourist market. More and more foreign patients are displaced to Spain in order to receive health care. Health tourism is a growing sector, which will move in our country more than 500 million euros this year, and will increase at a rate of 20% annually, both in billing and in number of patients. Health tourism generates a high added value, because the profile of this tourist patient is of high purchasing power, with prolonged stays, which are usually accompanied by families. The average cost of this tourism is above normal tourism, between 6 and 10 points. Before we continue with the initiative, we need to clarify the concepts. Health tourism would be the one who travels in search of health services to reduce stress, in search of thermal treatments, or in search of more complex procedures in a hospital. From the perspective of the sector, health tourism implies conscious promotion that travelling to a particular place is considered beneficial to health either because of a particular climate, to natural resources, such as our waters, or to the quality of the health and care system, which we also have. In order for health tourism to take place there must be a desire to travel and to receive treatment, thus being excluded from this concept the foreigner who lives in Spain and the tourist who attends a medical service due to an accident or illness survived. Health tourism is understood from four specific areas: healing medicine, preventive medicine, aesthetics and wellness. We're talking, and we need to clarify it, after what we've just heard, which is 100 percent tourism directed to private institutions, that is to say, health and tourism companies, which have no cost for public health. Having made these clarifications, we have to see the opportunities ahead, because, ladies and gentlemen, in the face of the steady and intense growth of this tourist sector in Spain, Galicia, and especially Ourense, you cannot miss this opportunity. Because I do not exaggerate when I say that we are at an ideal time to promote rural development and the so-called long-suffering territorial balance through one of the most important endogenous resources in the province of Ourense: the mineral and thermal waters. Galicia is one of the richest European regions in these waters, for its quality, quantity, abundance and variety. Although these resources are found in the four provinces, it is Ourense that concentrates more resources, agents and services directly and indirectly related to the thermalism and the quality of these resources. In Galicia, more than 300 mineral water captures are catalogued, of which 21 have bathing qualifications, occupying Galicia's first position in relation to the number of national bathing facilities. These 21 balneotherapy centers offer 2,862 accommodation squares, and provide customers to 10,000 other squares around their facilities. Most of these bathing facilities are high-end and their accommodation is listed between 4 and 5 stars, 67% of the offer has this catalogue. Furthermore, Galicia is the leader in quality Q-certified spas; 8 of the 37 in all Spain that have this condition are in Galicia. Its turnover is around 60 million and generates 1,400 direct jobs. The Greek spas have, as a whole, seven classes of mineral-medicine water of the eight that exist in the world. Its therapeutic effects are related to the physical, chemical and biological characteristics of these waters, and their administration techniques. Thus, chlorinated water is indicated in respiratory and dermatological processes, stimulates healing and improves bone disorders. Sulphate waters are indicated in digestive processes. The bicarbonated waters, used in drinking, are also to alleviate digestive problems. Sulfurated waters are used in dermatological, rheumatic, chronic respiratory and otorrinolingological processes. Ferrous waters are beneficial for hematological and dermal problems. Radioactive waters are sedatives and analgesics. And finally, oligometalic waters have diuretic properties. This variety, quality and abundance of mineral-medicine waters must be the basis on which to develop the health tourism product. The sector has already adapted to this new trend, in fact they have already launched a variety of products and services that include thermalism as a fundamental or complementary claim. And the examples we have in Ourense province, the Laias and Arnoia spas, taking advantage of the enclave and its natural conditions for rowing training and pyragüism, offer services to meet all the needs that a high-performance rowing team can have. So this year, they've been training in Ourense the selection of Belarus, Dutch and Australian, selections that will come back next year with more people on their teams and longer stays. And next year they will also come to Ourense to train the selections of France and Romania and the rowing team at Oxford University, among other rowing teams. As elite sportsmen, they need high quality medical services, immediate diagnostic methods, such as TAC, magnetic resonance imaging, analytical, infiltration, physiotherapy, and this private medical service in Ourense we temolo. The spas provide, in this case, the complement of medical recovery and hydrology among other services. Another example of adapting to this growing demand is that we have it in Ourense, where business projects are already underway that are betting on health tourism, offering an integral service of pre- and post-operative care, and a recovery service based on thermal techniques, taking advantage of the healing properties of our waters. These examples in Ourense province show that Galicia has an important infrastructure related to health tourism. The quality of the service, the additional infrastructure, such as an important hotel plant, a quality post-operative service and modern and innovative health and well-being facilities, are, along with the waters, the vimbios that we have to convert health tourism into one of the great strongholds of Galicia as destination, along with the Santiago Way, eco-gastronomy and cultural and natural heritage. Ourense, as the thermal capital of Galicia, is the best equipped to achieve a position of leadership as a destination of health tourism, which will allow it not only to generate employment and redistribute wealth, but also to be a tractor of other economic sectors. To achieve these objectives, ladies and gentlemen, it is necessary to structure a tourist product, which we call health tourism, which puts in place all our potential, and which is capable of exploiting this growing demand. With nothing else, and waiting for the support of the parliamentary groups, I am finished, Madam President. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u86	Thank you very much. Intervention of parliamentary groups. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, you have the floor to Mrs. Iglesias Sueiro.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u87	Good morning, ladies. Good morning, President. We are dealing with a very focused initiative in the province and city of Ourense, where there is a natural wealth, which are the thermal waters, of which this Member is a fervent user and defender, and I am very proud of living in it. But there are a number of drawbacks about that, too. It was a city that was built from back to the river, and then access to this natural good, for it is seen difficulty many times, no longer by the state of the journey, but by the loneliness of the journey. There's no infrastructure that holds the walker towards it. On the other hand, it has four points in the exhibition text. The first one I do not share at all, Madam President, I do not share at all that the health system of Ourense is to date a system of recognized prestige, with the number of negative events happening in it. I don't share it. And the third creates me doubts, creates me doubts as to the wager made by the Autonomic Administration, and by the business fabric that I was able to regain the splendor of the spasm of the year. I mean, and I insist on the words "made by the autonomous administration." Ourense Deputies are involved in the management of this project that I share, because it seems to me that it would be a job generator project, which would be a project that would put a little more gold in the state space, and apart from what we deserve, that we are an aging population, that Europe has an ageing population, which is well directed in business. But I am aware that the President of the Ourense Parliament meets with Mario Crescent, head of the consultant who develops the "Ourense Thermal Province" Plan, who continues to plan the strategy that the Ourense Parliament, coordinated with the Board, will take place in 2016 for lines of action in the promotion of tourism, improvement of infrastructure, economic management and investment. And on November 7, I also read in the press that the MP finishes the project, and in the press on the 18th – the next day – I read that the Board and the MP sign the execution of the thermal plan. You understand that this Member keeps his position suspended, until he hears the full debate of all spokesmen, because with the little credit that inspires me the current President of the House of Ourense for his disgusting conduct, for his political practices, for his attitude to an institution of which he thinks he is the owner, I don't trust, I don't trust myself to be able to sign contracts with whom, how, at what time, they affect the neighbours where they find that natural asset of all. I don't trust your management, Madam. And on the other hand, you're part of a party – the People's Party – that doesn't take that big off. Because let's see, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Baltar is doing a lot of damage to his party. The day if it doesn't come out in the press, today it comes out that the legal complaint procedure is under way. The thing won't stop. You have to remove that bag from above, so that democracy flows, so that the opposition will trust and agree with a team, the opposition team with the government team at the moment. And I say it with all the respect of the world by the People's Party, with all of them. But you have, to speed up your actions, to carry them out, to count on the confidence of the opposition, to get rid of a manager, a president of a deputy, a democratic institution...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u88	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u89	...which is leaving very badly democracy, the People's Party and the citizenship of Ourense. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u90	Thank you very much. For the Galician Nationalist Block, you have the floor to Mrs. Prado Colors.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u91	Good day to all and all. The truth is that it is already becoming a ritual for the People's Party to remove the thermo-relucency and bring it to this Parliament at the time of the election. Looks like it's a relief issue for the election sale. It always comes here to this Parliament by the hand of a Member or a Member of the People's Party of Ourense. Logically, to some extent, because Ourense has great potential, but other parts of Galicia as well. I suppose he'll give them good performance when they turn it into this ritual. The truth is that thermalism, health tourism, looks like the tower, which returns home for Christmas. Then thermalism returns to this Parliament in the face of electoral campaigns. It's just like that. Look, in the precipitate of the municipal elections of 2011, the current candidate for the mayor of Ourense, Mr. Rosendo Fernández, brought to this House an initiative in which he urged the Board of Galicia to carry out the work that would be relevant to the inclusion in the portfolio of complementary services of the Galician Health System of Medical Hydrology Techniques. The campaign was over, others came, four years passed, and never again did you know what happened to that deal. What is true is that it is not included in the service portfolio of the Galician Health Service. Only a few months ago, on May 5, 2015, Mr. Santalices re-emerged the collation in this Parliament, just as he had begun the 2015 municipal election campaign, and at that time brought an initiative that said that the Galician Parliament urged the Galician Union to urge the Ministry of Health, Social Services and Equality to consider the possibility of providing access to spasms and other Spanish hydrotherapy centres to citizens of the countries of the European Union who had included hydrothermal therapy in their portfolios...". Mr Santalices is not here, but I would like you to tell us how those studies are going, as is the agreement voted by the People's Party in this House on this inclusion. It would be interesting to know what the agreements are, the initiatives you bring, the People's Party, into this House around the thermalism. Because bring him here, approve of him, and then we never know again, Mrs. Romero. And it turns out that you here, one day before the election campaign of general elections, bring back health tourism, health thermalism, here in the House, in the German Parliament. It is clear that thermalism is a tourist potential in Galicia, it is clear that it has been working for years to become a reference and in that support to destabilization, because Galicia is not for that solar and beach tourism that the People's Party for so long has been committed to wanting to sell, a product that was not our country's own. So, there are actually products in Galicia that can put in very good value what we are, and to destabilize, and we fully agree that it represents 20% of the thermalism of the Spanish state, we fully agree. What happens that in Galicia we have more than thirty establishments offering thermal services? Obviously. What's a wide range of different levels of... establishment? We totally agree. What is a diversity at the territorial level in Galicia of thermal establishments with different treatments? I totally agree. I mean, it's obvious, there's supply, there's demand and there's a tourist product. I totally agree. Now, what we don't understand at BNG, Mrs. Romero, is what you want with this initiative, because those obvious things are that way.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u92	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u93	As obvious as that "Turgalia promotes health tourism in Asturias" – in 2006 – with that disembarked Bipartite. Look, "Tourism bets by Galicia as a destination of well-being." "The current Secretary General of Tourism promotes Galician health tourism." See: "Turgalia promotes the Galician brand, the presentation of Galician tourism, where we have a different destination, and will especially promote health tourism". I will follow you, Mrs. Romero: Fitur 2012, promotion of Galicia: "Today it has acquired a great importance or so-called health tourism, which becomes a reference." We go to the year 2013: "Galiza, tourism of health", promotion to promote Galicia as a leading destination in tourism of health and well-being, with promotional videos that win prizes and so on. We can follow: "Junta promotes the health tourism of the Greek spas through audiovisual campaigns."
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u94	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u95	"Tourism begins the year with the international promotion of campism and Greek thermalism", "Tourism of Galicia bets for segmentation and adaptation of the specific demands of potential tourism to encourage health tourism in Galicia". This is what the Galician Union is doing, with which, look...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u96	Finish it, Mrs. Prado, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u97	...the support of the BNG – finished – all the support of the BNG for health tourism and thermalism, because it is a very important tourist resource for our country. But, of course, opportunistic and propaganda initiatives, please...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u98	Thank you very much, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u99	...don't keep bringing them to this House with little results. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u100	Thank you very much. Parliamentary Group of the Left Galician Alternative. You have the word of Mr. Ramón Vázquez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u101	Good morning to all and to all. How can I tell you, Mrs. Romero, without the courage to hurt sensibilities? You seem to me today more than a commercial of a private travel agency than a public representative. "Turgali, S.A.," it was a bit the message we pulled from his intervention. From our point of view, it is clear that the reduction in Galicia's cultural, heritage, historical, gastronomic and natural values to the category of tourist product in itself means economic reductionism of dubious social profitability. Tourism policies focused solely on obtaining economic resources, exploiting economic resources, have had and have little impact on improving the development of our towns and cities. Just take a look at the abandonment of our towns and cities, the situation of our historic helmets, the abandonment of our mountains and our rural areas, the forgetfulness of our archaeological deposits... we could go on like this for hours and hours. We believe that public policies in tourism must have an absolutely inclusive global approach and not only focus this government's political action on subsidizing business projects with a private profit purpose. We advocate – yes, sir – tourism policies of a global and inclusive nature that have three approaches: the first, the management of the sector logically; the second, the promotion of activity – cannot be renounced for this purpose – but the third – and so important or more than the other two –, the value of the heritage, cultural, social and natural elements of our country, which repeatedly forgets this government, those that shape the identity and its own attraction and the essence of our country. In front of this integral and cross-sectional vision, the Greek Government assumes an atomized, economical tourism management and, above all, absolutely ineffective. First of all, the abolition of the General Secretariat of Tourism and the creation of the Galician Tourism Agency is a clear evidence of this situation, a Galician Tourism Agency that has turned the Public Administration into a travel agency, as I told you; it creates and markets tourism products that are exploited by private companies. A clear example we have in another of these tourist products, the top has touristic, that engineer that you created through a subcontract made up of Value Consultants and Travels Paco in exchange for 146,000 euros. And other examples we have in products like "Areais de Galicia", "Fares and Wild Beaches", "Sport Tourism"..., tourist products exploited and marketed by the same agency, Viaxes Paco, and that's what they call enhancing the tourism sector. And today they bring us this initiative, a nihilistic initiative, on the creation of the tourist product "health tourism", referred basically to thermal tourism, which causes us important doubts. Doubts because the German Government has inflated vast amounts of public resources for the construction of hotels, spas and spas of dubious social profitability. We have the case of the Palacio Spa de Sober, the market for the parents of the super-delegate in Lugo da Junta de Galicia, Raquel Arias, for one and a half million euros, who received subsidies above the 4.5 million euros and who is currently in bankruptcy. And we have the cases, yes, of the Caldaria seasides, of Ourense; but we also have the cases of the spas of Guitiriz and Vilalba, in Lugo, also recipients of important public subsidies and today in ERE or creditors' contest. That's the reality, this is the tourism policy in the thermal matter of the Government of Greece. And we have the null result of the creation of empty marks, such as "Tourism of Galicia", when they are not accompanied by specific programs.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u102	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u103	It's a branding policy. And the really important thing: what is the social outcome of this policy? For 4,000 more stops in the tourism sector in Galicia since the arrival of Mr Feijóo, 150,000 less travellers in Galicia since the year 2010 each year, 1 million nights spent less since the year 2010, the average income of hotels per room available falling, the average stay in Galicia dropped from 2.5 days per tourist to 1.9 in 2014, etc.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u104	Please finish, Mr. Vázquez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u105	These are the results of their tourism policy; therefore, they leave branding, leave the Galician brand, make serious policies of impulse to our tourism sector by placing on value our heritage, cultural, social elements...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u106	Thank you very much, Mr Vázquez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u107	...and also gastronomy. That's your obligation as a government, the rest is smoke, Mrs. Romero. Nothing else for now.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u108	Socialist Group. Mr. Gallego Lumba has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u109	Thank you, President. Good morning to all of you. Right now, before I go into the subject itself, I will say something very important: that Manel Gallego Lumba and the Socialist Group defend the politics of socialist governments, both of Felipe González and of Zapatero. More importantly, the socialist policy that has made Spain, since 1982, the biggest transformation that this country has suffered. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u110	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u111	The biggest transformation in this country made the Socialist Party with Felipe Gonzalez head in infrastructure...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u112	Focus on the issue, Mr Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u113	President, I'll tell you something, by the Genoa manual, for two days both Mr. Tellado...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u114	Talk to the Members.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u115	...like Mr. Arias and the president today speaking of the Socialist Party, who did not come to the fore at all. And the three in the interventions were dedicated solely to the Socialist Party. [[Murmurs.]] And I, as one of the leaders of the Socialist Party, want to defend the Socialist Party, because if not, there's no way. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u116	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u117	Because they can...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u118	Well, present an initiative, Mr. Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u119	Yesterday Mr. Arias was devoted all afternoon to talking about the Socialist Party, Mr. Tellado too, and the president this morning too. And you didn't tell them anything, neither did the president who was replacing her.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u120	Mr Gallego, please speak to the Members.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u121	I say once again that the greatest transformation in this country has made it the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party, whether you like it or not. [[Applause]] In infrastructure, in social services, in health care, in education, in social services, in pensions... that was done by the entire Spanish Socialist Workers' Party. [[Applause]] [[Murmurs.]] Do you know what you did when you ruled?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u122	Focus on the issue, Mr Gallego, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u123	You put us in a war, Mr. Aznar put them in the war. That's what you did. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u124	Mr. Gallego!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u125	That's what you did.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u126	Mr. Gallego, first call to the question, please. Focus on the issue. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] You've already spoken to a mouse, now focus on the matter. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u127	No, but they were talking about it all day. And today the president in our question has been talking about this following, he's been talking about the Socialist Party. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Murmurs.]] So, look... yeah, yeah, yeah, [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u128	Quiet, please! Mr. Gallego's time is running out and it'll be over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u129	But I want to claim, I've been in politics for many years, I've been militating in the Socialist Party for more than forty years, and I want to claim the policy that the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party has made in Spain. [[Murmurs.]] Okay, you guys can say otherwise... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u130	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u131	...but I'm going to claim it and point.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u132	But demand tourism policy and focus on it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u133	Speaking of tourism... thank you, President, for the joke. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I'm doing what they all did, nothing else; not more or less. And I want the same hand to divide for us as for others. Okay, that's it. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Murmurs.]] Whenever there are elections the People's Party brings us an initiative on health tourism, thermal tourism, Mr. Rosendo – who is not, who is in Ourense – in the past legislation – yes, he is not – Mr. Santalices – who must be two or three times –, Mrs. Romero – I also think it is the second time – and always talking about it. What's more, I think there's some initiative adopted unanimously. And what have they done these six years? What managements have they done to ensure that health tourism, thermal tourism, had gone ahead and had claimed to Galicia? They haven't done anything, they haven't done anything for six years, and they've always approved the initiatives, some unanimously, and some of them you've taken for the most part, but they've never, never, never done anything. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And now that there are elections, they bring an initiative that once again says to set up, you don't know what. But please develop what they've approved, invest in it. Because, of course, we are in full debate on budgets and I don't see any game dedicated to the initiative they present today. So you're the majority, you're tabling an amendment to the budgets if you're not in line with the policy that the Director General of Tourism is doing and tell him: Let's do this, we're going to invest in this, which is the health tourism policy. So you have to do it, because you have a majority, and you don't bring this here to say that we urge... and, besides, about health tourism, the initiative says something very important, which is a health system of recognized prestige. Well, the professionals are of recognized prestige and very good professionals, but you've managed to charge the Greek health system. The prestige of the Greek health system, thanks to you, does not exist, because we're seeing every day what's going on in the healthcare system. So...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u134	Finish it, Mr. Gallego, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u135	No, no, it's true. Yeah, yeah, yeah... Of course, what I'm telling you is that, to bring initiatives to make propaganda and be very good and everyone is happy with themselves, because they continue to do so. Because whenever there are elections... for Ourense... it's not just about Ourense, which is also about Pontevedra, which is also about thermalism, and there's thermalism in Lugo as well.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u136	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u137	And they don't just talk about Ourense, because Pontevedra also has thermalism, and you don't want it. They always bring in to be well... and once again they won't be well, because no one believes them already. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u138	Group author of the non-law proposal. Mrs. Romero Fernández has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u139	Thank you very much again, Madam President. I am sorry, Mr. Gallego Lumba, that he had used all his time to reply to the President of the Union. It was a lack of respect for the huge Ourense sector and province. I'm also sorry that no one... [[Murmurs.]] Yes, yes, he showed a lack of significant sensitivity. It's an initiative... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u140	Silence, please, I don't listen... silence. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Wait a minute, please. [[Interruptions.]] Let's see, if this goes on like this and your lords don't all calm down, and they know what we're representing here and doing here, I'm suspending the full. But that's how I'm clear. So, or we all calm down and talk about what we have to talk about......and let... [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Mrs. Prado, you have... I'm talking. [[Murmurs.]] Ladies and gentlemen, it seems to me that little favor is being given to politics and bad spectacles. I therefore ask you to listen to each and every one of the Members who has the right to speak. Mrs. Romero, please finish your speech.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u141	Yes, well, I just started, Madam President. Well, Mr. Ramon Vázquez, I'm very proud to be a merchant. I've been, I'm, and I'll be, my whole life. And obviously... Don't offend me, Mr. Vázquez. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I do want to sell Galicia, and, above all, as a destination, sell Ourense. Look, social profitability succeeds by creating employment and wealth, being this tractor sector of other sectors, with rural development and seeking territorial balance. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] This sector is already ordered and has a roadmap, which is the comprehensive health tourism plan, where all these initiatives are. And all that I'm asking for, it's collected within this frame. And look, Mrs. Prado Cores, I'm sorry that they're a little short of staff at this time of election campaign, but you did it is to repeat your intervention as soon as Mr. Santalices brought his initiative. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And look, they talk about electoralism when we bring thermal initiatives. Madam President, the only group that brings thermal and tourism initiatives to this House and to the committees is the People's Parliamentary Group. The only one!, the only one who has the sensitivity to Ourense province in this area and to the tourist sector, the only one. [[Applause]] Both in the aspect of the thermal cure, which was what Mr Santalices was referring to, and in the field of tourism. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And it must be made clear that this is an initiative of tourist impulse, it is not an initiative of health impulse or any initiative of social impulse. And, Mrs Iglesias, if you don't trust the administration, trust the sector that bets on health tourism. It's seen that they didn't understand anything we were talking about. We have been talking about creating a product to strengthen the supply of health tourism in thermalism, to encourage cooperation between the health sector and the thermal sector, to seek cooperation agreements with national and insurance systems, to participate in events on health tourism, to consolidate the promotion of thermal tourism by capturing new flows. [[Murmurs.]] Finally, ladies and gentlemen, we are working in a coordinated way with the entire value chain, from product design to marketing. To create, consolidate, promote a health product...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u142	Mrs. Quintas, you have a call to order.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u143	...based on our thermal wealth. It is clear, after listening to them, gentlemen, that if they govern again, we will return to the situation of the economic abyss in which they have left us, and you will be able to end and destroy everything that the economic crisis has not been able to do. Nothing else and thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u144	We continue with the next proposal. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Alternative Galaga de Left, at the initiative of Da Yolanda Díaz Pérez, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in connection with the convention signed in June 2000 and the installations of the Reganosa gas plant inside the Ferrol River
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u145	This motion for a non-law has been tabled amendments by the Joint Parliamentary Group and the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u146	You have the floor to make your non-law proposal Mrs. Yolanda Díaz, of the Parliamentary Group of the Alternative Left Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u147	Good morning to all and to all again. Let's bring this House back again, let's say that one of those scams that are part of this model that is already ending, or this end of the political cycle that is ending, that we could call, as some authors say, a genuine plot of political-entrepreneurship corruption. Surely in these great plots and in these great scams of political and business corruption we have enough examples in this country, for example, we have the fusion of the Greek boxes and the bad sale that came after, and the practice of theft practiced by the directors of the boxes. But we also have, for example, the bloody case of Pescanova, which is also paying right now Juan Pueblo, and we also have this case, which is straightforward, of that plot of political-entrepreneurship corruption that is the case of Reganosa. I say "full case" because surely there are few examples – although there are many examples of fighting in this country in the defence of legality and in the defence of all the security of people, of life and of the environment – in which for so many years there has been a collective fighting in the Ferrolterra bar to 60 organizations, and who have been working, devoting resources and efforts and in which, in addition, justice itself has given them reason on so many occasions. I say I gave them the reason because, as you well know, the Supreme Court is demonstrating and pointing out that if they are actually violating the minimum distance protection rules with regard to this gas infrastructure. And as those Supreme Court judgments say, the county of Ferrolterra is in a situation of vital danger for obvious reasons. The first of them, the pedreira population core, which you know is attached to the gas plant itself, or, by making it clear already, to those reports that have never been published, but of those, as you know, we have a copy, if you really discourage the location of that plant by the short distance that there is not only the population nucleus of the pedre and Ferrol, but also because they are the shortest distance from the military arsenal of Ferrol, I insist, by violating each and every one of the relevant regulations. But, I insist, the Supreme Court gave different judgments despite the fact that the public authorities continue to look the other way and continue to defend an infrastructure that I will try to explain that it makes no sense in our country. Nor is it strategic, as has been defended at some time in this Parliament, for Galicia, and it is also difficult. And I'm saying it's defective and we're going to talk after Enagas' reports, which tell us how one of the plants we have in the Spanish state as a whole – the report is public – where for example between January and March of this year 2015 – Enagas's data – has been 36 days under the technical minimum necessary to sustain or argue the maintenance of this plant. But it doesn't matter, because even though the reports we have and are public are indicating that we don't need that plant, they're indicating, for example, that the Xixon plant has it in hibernation because it's not necessary, despite all this, there's like a unanimous vocation of the People's Party to continue maintaining a real business that is nothing more than a gas bubble and that – I insist – it's capable of contradicting the lives of thousands of people in the whole county of Ferrolterra. When they put us this gas plant inside the Ferrol River, they told us they were going to generate thousands of jobs. As I said the other day and I repeat again here, it's public, it's on the official page of the Vice-Presidentship of Galicia, actually the risks that this plant has are lethal. If there is any problem at the entrance or exit in a complex creek, as the Members and Members of the district of Ferrolterra know well, in case there is any problem, we will not tell it, we will not tell it. And, as I say here again, in fact, the prevention mechanisms that have been given to the population, apart from the alarm signals and others that appear and are public, in fact, was to hand over to the population an emergency kit for their preservation. The truth that looks like a joke, but it's not. What does this initiative intend to do? Well, report what's going on. First of all, we ask again in this House that this agreement which was signed with today's convicted criminal, Mr. José Luis Méndez, of the Galician boxes – this is also part of the Galician box hole – plus the participation of the Galician board, plus the Tojeiro Group, plus then Sonatrach and the Fenous Electric Union itself, because we effectively denounce this agreement. Because this agreement is telling us – it was a sober business, frankly – that in case there are losses in that unnecessary infrastructure, not strategic for Galicia and highly dangerous, that is, lethal, as the reports of the Galician Union say, because, in case there are losses, Juan Pueblo pays. What do we ask for in this initiative? So we ask for something obvious: that this agreement that is part of the plot of political-entrepreneurship corruption, which was a form of government and is still going down even though it is already going down, be denounced. Not only is it made public – I think we have already managed to get the clauses of this ineffable gas infrastructure – but we also denounce it and, once and for all, it does not take effect in our community. But secondly, we also closed that infrastructure. And why? Because there's new data on the gas plant. We always have new data, even though there is no justification for the maintenance of it. And why do I say there's new data? Because you will know, for example, that on February 12 of this same year an order, a new order, the IET 241 of 2015, in which it is authorized and the Northwest Regasifier is designated as the manager of the natural gas transport network. But also that in June this same year – and this is what we bring here – prolongs the granting of the gas plant to Reganosa in a concession that allows the Harbour Authority itself of Ferrol-San Cibrao, when they are doing – and we have already denounced it – a true subterfuge. Because, as you know, that concession brings about what was the forest activity, but never the activity of the gas bubble that is being defended here. And secondly, the new facts, and which we have also brought to this House, are that, despite the overwhelming data that publicly show the levels of use and production of the gas plant itself, and even though the reports are pointing to us that we are faced with an energy bubble – and I will literally read: "The decline in production has manifested itself on all plants, but singularly they mark us that of Mugardos" – not even by criteria of economic rationality makes sense to maintain it, especially – I insist – when we are talking about human lives. But despite that, without knowing why, it would be allowed to authorize it again to produce a new tank that will multiply the risks to the lives of thousands of human beings in the whole of this country. So what do we ask this Parliament to do? As I said at first, first, to denounce that agreement that is part of the plot of mass corruption and a way of government, and that it is Juan Pueblo who stops paying these high costs. But, secondly, and most importantly, that this gas plant is closed to the rulings that have been said and, most importantly, to that fundamental principle that is the principle of caution. But above all, so that we can avoid any risk. We're talking about lives. The problem with the gas plant – and I know that the Members and Members of the county of Ferrolterra know it well – is environmental on the one hand, but above all, the problem is that we can risk our lives, that we are at risk, because we do not meet the minimum safety distances, and because – you know, many Members and Members – when in a creek with too close entry, when there is too much wind, neither too much wind, nor can we guarantee maneuver operations.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u148	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u149	We therefore believe that legality must be defended, we believe, moreover, that life must be defended, and for these reasons we urge this House to vote in favour of these two points. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u150	Thank you very much, Mrs. Díaz. Intervention of parliamentary groups. Joint Group. You have the floor to Mrs. Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u151	Thank you, President. Good morning to all and to all. The current location of Reganosa reflects a reality that should not need this Parliament to be dealing with today if the institutions and the Government acted in accordance with the law and were in institutions defending the rights of citizenship. I would like to express, to begin with, the profound positioning and rotting, both mine and my political organization, Cerna, as a whole in favour of the execution of the Supreme Court's judgement of May 2012, which declares the current location of Reganosa illegal, and we wager the closure of Reganosa in its current location. However, we defend their transfer to the foreign port and demand a business reformulation from Reganosa to become a public or mixed-up company with most public capital. Energy is a strategic essential asset for any society, and it cannot be regarded as a commodity object of speculation and private business, but must provide a service to society in general to contribute to its well-being and development. In the debate on energy – from coal thermal power plants, wind farms, regasifying plants, nuclear power plants... – the political forces and civil society we must set a position, because vacuum and opposition without alternative the only cause is the exhaustion of citizenship and opens doors to those who defend nuclear energy. Environmental concern is an achievement that we owe to environmental organisations, which have permeated political organizations and society in general. If we support the transfer of Reganosa out of the river, it's for security, economic and environmental reasons. Natural gas is considered less contaminant than other fossil fuels and has, among other things, the following advantages: of all fuels, which produces less CO2 per unit energy, does not contain sulphur, does not produce solid particles and C02 emissions are between 40% or 50% lower than coal and between 25% and 30% less than fuel. The combined cycle center of the Bridges is fuelled by the natural gas that provides Reganosa, which is essential for incorporating the potential of wind energy into the electrical network. Finally, I try to explain that the decision to close Reganosa has all kinds of consequences: economic for the Mugardos Council, for companies that are less competitive, for Navantia, that has a business niche in gas repair, and within the framework of the European Union with the possibilities of the so-called ECA zones and their 2020 emission reduction targets; for The Bridges, in their involvement with the combined cycles and for the renewable industries of windmills. It also has ecological consequences, social consequences with the loss of hundreds of jobs in a region severely punished by unemployment and the consequent loss of population. And besides, on May 31, 2007, Mrs. Díaz herself, according to the media, moved a meeting with Vicente Irisarri of the Socialist Party, and affirmed that the relationship between the two parties should be above the differences with the plant. We agree that we must put ourselves to work to achieve their transfer out of the river, with realism and without endangering matters of vital importance to this region and to Galicia itself. The ESC itself, in the opinion report of the Galician Energy White Paper, adopted unanimously in March 2001, says: "The ESC considers that the realisation of the Reganosa project is of vital importance to Galicia if industrial settlements are to be built on the ground of this fuel". And in the rally on Sunday, September 30, 2007, it was read: "The gas plant constitutes a threat to the life of 100,000 people and to the seafood wealth of the river." And it ends: "For the record of Reganosa's definitive operation, for his transfer to the outside port, for him to end this nonsense against what we've been fighting since the year 2000. " That's why I hope you will accept my amendment, which calls for the development of appropriate management to move Reganosa out of the river and develop the measures necessary for the business reformulation of the gas plant and for it to become a public or mixed company with most of the public capital. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u152	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. You have the floor to Mrs. Pontón Mondelo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u153	Thank you very much, President. Good morning. About two years ago, a little further, we were also discussing an initiative that was similar to this one in this session. In fact, I think one of the points is identical and the other had a very similar content. So we're going to maintain a position from the Galician Nationalist Block based on the same arguments we used at that time. I want to differentiate two plans from the debate which from our point of view are necessary and important in relation to a matter which we consider to be relevant to this country. From BNG we understand that Galicia needs to improve its self-sustainment and therefore that the regasification plant is a strategic project, not only from the point of view of domestic supply, but also from the point of view of industrial development and even the type of business fabric that our country has, where we have many industries that are large gas consumers. Unfortunately, on this ground we have also reported that there are actions that have been done, such as having a pipeline that does not have enough capacity to supply the industry we have right now. And, therefore, we understand that there is a deficiency and a need in this area. It is important for us, therefore, towards the future and towards the potential of industrial development in our country that generates employment and wealth in Galicia, that we have gas supply capacity. I understand that the problem is not gas supply, which, as has already been said here, is clearly a less polluting fuel than others that are being used and therefore even from an environmental point of view this is an important issue. But, said this, we also want to point out that the fact that Galicia needs a regasifier plant doesn't mean that it can be installed anywhere, nor can it be installed without taking into account what people's regulations and security, which we think is very important. In fact, when the public exhibition of this project took place, in May 2001, the Galician Nationalist Block presented an allegation to that project that was being exposed at that time. One claim that we first questioned the mechanics chosen for this whole procedure, because it was more geared to a policy of consummated facts and stole a serious and rational debate about which should be the location of this regasifier plant. It seemed to us, moreover, that all the documentation was excessively simple, incomplete and therefore there was not a detailed analysis of it. We were critical of the fact that all the documentation was made to justify the location of the project and no other safe and environmentally compatible alternative was considered. We also argued that the regulation of harmful, harmful and dangerous activities needed to be clearly applied, which would require respect for industry's placement from distance to population centres. I also made mention that the port authority had pending the development of a plan of uses for the river that with criteria of harmonisation between respect, the potentiality and wealth of it and the possible location of industrial projects ended with the anarchy imposed in recent years, and I made them reference precisely to that the fact that if an external port was being built in the Ferrol River had to lead to a rationality also in the uses within the river itself and that, therefore, this would be the ideal place to be able to place this plant rather than the place that is at this moment. In this respect, and in line with these two criteria, we tabled an amendment which proposes that Parliament should urge the Council of Galicia to draw up a relocation plan for the Reganosa gas plant, but which, in any case, guarantees the existence of a regasifying plant, which for us remains a necessary objective for this country. Because we believe that it depends a very important part of our economy, too, on the type of energy consumption alternatives that we have and neither in this area do we believe that our future is dependent on Gijón. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u154	Thank you very much. Socialist Group. Her word is Noela Blanco Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u155	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. As you know, the Socialist Group, the Socialist Party, when this project was being considered 15 years ago because I thought then that the best possible location was on the Priority Cape, where we now know as an external port. We defend it in the conviction that the main objectives of the external ports are to remove from the core residences traffic involving extraordinary security measures or specialized operations. But, unfortunately, the People's Party prioritized its dangerous friendships with some business group, which had nothing to do with the energy sector, before the general interests. Given the perspective of time, and taking into account the environmental criteria, the case of Reganosa is not an isolated case. There are locations of industrial installations in areas that today, for the environmental awareness criteria that we all have, much more implanted, because of course they wouldn't be appropriate right now, either. But besides talking about the spatial location of this facility, it's important to consider other aspects when we question Reganosa's future. The first one: I don't share with you, Mrs. Díaz, that it's not strategic. I think it performs an important strategic function for the entire Welsh industry, both for companies like Alcoa, and for Navantia, which, as you know, is specialized in repairing gas vessels, whose ships, once they are repaired, need the cargo cooling service that provides you with this installation. Secondly, because within the strategic sector – and it has already been said here – gas as an alternative to renewable energy sources, which the Socialist Party and the European Union consider to be priority, and which the Government of the People's Party has been horrifying and hurting for these four years, appears as the most unrenewable source; and is the most satisfactory both for its energy efficiency and for the lowest emissions of greenhouse gases, 36% less than CO2 than fuel, thus contributing to the fight against climate change and meeting the Strategy 2020. In this line, since the beginning of the year, a new environmental legislation within the European Union itself has begun to place strong restrictions, especially in northern Europe, through the so-called ECA zones, these areas, those areas for the control of emissions to ship navigation, to the navigation of ships with contaminants, which is expected to increase. By increasing, estimates are that natural gas could be the energy of the future for maritime transport, which not only meant an improvement at the environmental level, but also an important economic improvement, and also for our fleet. A fishing fleet that, as you know, goes through very complicated moments; complicated moments in which – for example, in the Galician fleet of arts such as trawling in community waters – fuel spending accounts for 60% of the revenues of these vessels. And third, and not less important than that, but that we consider that fundamental, we must take into account the context in which it is requested, the socio-economic situation of the district of Ferrolterra. Ferrol, as you know, Mrs. Díaz – and I have heard him many times in this plenary – is going through a complicated situation. Even if it's not as you said, of thousands of workers, there are sixty-one peak workers affected, plus all the companies that work, service companies, transport companies and even Navantia, who, as you know, don't spend their best moments. This dramatic closure would be given in a region – the one in Ferrolterra – which has a rate of unemployment of 3 points above Galicia, with a fall in the rate of activity in the last quarter of 1.2%, in a city like Ferrol, which has the highest rate of poverty in the whole of Galicia – 17.7% of families are below the threshold of poverty. So, given the strategic importance, the new environmental criteria and the serious economic situation that is going through not only this region, but all of Galicia, this leads the Socialist Group to think – and I tell you with all the respect I know, Mrs. Díaz – that the remedy you propose is worse than disease. That's why we're not going to support this initiative. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u156	Thank you very much, Mrs. Blanco. For the People's Group, you have the word of Mr. Hippolyto Flares.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u157	Thank you very much, Madam President. In fact, we are debating again the situation of the county of Ferrol, but also the situation of Reganosa. And, Mrs. Díaz, as I told you the last time we discussed this issue, here we keep the position only for you and me, you represent your group and I represent mine, which is exactly the opposite. But it is curious to observe how positions are being cleaned up, to clean up arguments and to clean up ways to prove that you are on either side or to be on the other side when you were just on the opposite side. But, well, welcome to some of them to the debate, and well-founded others in this debate which was what they were not in. But, said this, there is, Mrs. Díaz – and you are a jurist expert – no judgment that says that neither the situation of Reganosa nor the environmental impact statement nor anything that has to do with the environment at Punta Promontoiro, for rightly calling it, is illegal, nor is it anti-regulationary, no judgment. There are several, not one, several judgments, which believe that all the permits available to Reganosa, all of them, are legal and subject to legislation, both local and autonomous, as national and European, all of them. And you refer to a judgment we've already spoken of here, and it's the judgement of May 11, 2012 of the Supreme Court, indeed, that at no point questions any of these areas that I just told you, for nothing. What if it cancels is the timely modification number 3 of the Mugardos Municipal Management Plan, approved by a government of the Galician Nationalist Block. By the way, a Galician Nationalist Block to which later, along the legislate, joined the United Left to provide support to the government. And where does this come from? Because of the approval of a PERI which was what facilitated the first steps of Reganosa in 1999, with a government of the Socialist Party, curiously with a concelerator of urbanism, a history you know perfectly, of the United Left, who abandoned the formation to be a concelerator of urbanism and approved this Peri, which was the first step to begin with the construction of Reganosa in Punta Promonteiro. This is the situation we're in, this is the real situation, there's no other situation but this one. Is there a cancellation of the timely amendment number 3 of the May 2012 judgment? Indeed, but since 2010, the Mugardos Council has been preparing another timely change, approved just in July 2012, which is the one that gives coverage in the Mugardos Municipal Management Plan to the situation that Reganosa has today. There's no more to say on this subject, and there's no other question that can be added here that says this isn't so. On the other hand, the question of security. Home, there are the European directives, on 82 1996, which spoke of the risks of a ship accident with dangerous goods, and in 2007 the Foreign Emergency Plan for Reganosa, in particular, was approved. This directive was amended by another wider and more demanding European directive as regards its application on 82 2012, applied or transposed to our legal order, and there was another approval of another external emergency plan, precisely much more demanding and detailed to avoid all the risks that could be posed in this case. With which she is subject to security. Navigation? All of it. You know that you've perfectly done over 200 tests supervised by companies with extensive industry experience, such as Deltars, or supervised by CEDEX, with Q-Max boats, which are the largest, 316 meters, ships made in Ferrol's stream, and they've given results according to normality. There's nothing to say about this. The European Commission on complaints and on questions and other disquisitions has already given its ruling, Mrs Díaz. The assessment to which the Commission submitted the information collected during the proceedings of several petitions, questions and complaints registered on this matter revealed no evidence that European Union legislation was infringed.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u158	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u159	Finished, Madam President. With regard to non-originating or being superfluous, the National Markets and Competition Commission speaks of the need of this plant to meet both the demand for gas and to meet the three combined cycle plants that are necessary and essential for the development of the energy system in Galicia, which you know is so. And with respect to use, it's the highest of the last four years of all the regasifiers of Spain, 33.6. And said this, Your Honor, we thank you very much for your tone, we also thank you for your initiative, and we will not vote in favour. Nothing else and thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u160	Thank you very much. The author group of the non-law proposal has the floor to Mrs. Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u161	Mr. Flours, I think you're right, right? It is true that the People's Party has always maintained its position, we too, is true. If I may, even Mr. Juan Fernández has also always maintained his position in defense of legality and against the gas plant inside the river. But I am allowed, to explain why we are not going to accept the amendments, first, this initiative that we bring – as I suppose they know – is endorsed, as I said, by the Emergency Committee, which represents 60 groups that demand the closure of that plant, and particularly demand the denunciation of this convention of what, to answer Mrs. Chelo Martínez, actually already has the Board of Galicia's relevant participation in it. We can't accept these amendments because the debate is no longer moving the plant, that's not the debate we have. The debate is that the lives of thousands of human beings are at risk in the territory of Ferrolterra – I insist, Vice-President of the Galician Union: lethal risks, I can read it perfectly – and therefore they are not treated or want the groups that become public or that move to the external port. I think this is a relevant debate, it is a relevant debate in which I am profane, but I believe that yes, Mrs Pontón, indeed, these collectives and engineers – and indeed the two cities, which in this converging, even the military part, with great experts on these issues – indicate that this plant is not strategic. I, Mr. Farínas, have the report here from the National Energy Commission, I am not lying, and of course it indicates at the global level of the year, and I quote literally, that "the plant is below the technical level 40%." That's global. The data I gave earlier are also public, not only from the Commission but also from Enagas. Besides, as you know, to answer Mrs. Pontón, I have already said that Xixón is in hibernation, that it is true and real, and I thank them for finding me. Secondly, this plant is assuming for the arks of the Greeks and the Greeks, by accountable deficit, 60 million euros a year, which is a barbarity, a brutal barbarity, when we insist that the needs are other. And thirdly, Mr. Farinas, you know that this theme is still pending in the Committee on Petitions in Europe, and you know perfectly well that in the visit to the Welsh rivers, and particularly to our laugh, it was a degree of narcotics when they checked how the gas plant was. And you know, because I have already led this debate to the committee, the pressure there was, that the members of the People's Party were refusing to publish the Commission's report unless the statements about Reganosa were withdrawn. So we're talking about serious things, we're talking about environmental risks, but we're talking about life. And so it's not about being public, it's about being absolutely unnecessary right now, and we demand closure. Finally, Mrs. Martínez, if you like, take a look at the government pact, which is well known in Ferrol, between the PSOE and the United Left. We have always voted differently on this issue, on the opposition and on the Government. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u162	Thank you very much, Mrs. Díaz. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da María do Carme Adán Villamarín and Da María Teresca Paz Franco, on the action to be carried out by the Government of Greece regarding the complaint of a woman referred to the president of the Provincial Deputy of Ourense
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u163	No amendments have been tabled to this non-law proposal. To formulate the proposal has the floor to Mrs. Paz Franco, of the Galician Nationalist Block.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u164	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I will try – and I hope that all the people who are involved in this debate will be able to formulate it with sufficient seriousness, corresponding to the entity of the question that we are going to debate – that all and all of us will be able to forget, even though it is only within half an hour that the debate of this initiative lasts, that within eighteen days there will be elections in this country, which seems to be the milkmotif of this plenary. We are going to talk about the question of Ourense, where we are going to measure the respect they have – we have – of the citizens and citizens of Ourense to the Members and Members of this House, starting with those who ask for respect when they disqualify the women taking hair with the thermoism of the People's Party towards the citizenship of Ourense. Let's talk about political ethics. This is not a court of justice, this is a parliament, where we speak of politics, political behaviour, and in which ethics should be an essential element of the behaviour of all the people we dedicate to politics. We're going to talk about a two-pronged issue: on the one hand, we're in the face of a corruption case, and on the other hand, we're in the face of a violation of women's rights. We are faced with a case of corruption, because it is the use of a public office to achieve particular ends; and we are faced with a case of violation of women's rights, because gender violence and sexual harassment is a manifestation of gender violence, and it is the greatest exponent of attacking a woman's dignity, against her freedom and against the principle of equality. Let me begin by justifying that Mr. Baltar offers jobs in exchange for having sex, and that he undertakes to set up a process of opposition so that he gets a fixed position in the Ourense Provincial Deputy, it's a case of corruption. In this Parliament, we have talked a lot about corruption over the past three years. There was a failed commission, which is also hibernate, for the prevention of corruption. Even Mr. Núñez Feijóo ten months and fifteen days ago called us into an inequitable period to a full extraordinary to talk about corruption. But in that commission the former superior prosecutor of Galicia – who I suppose some authorities will represent in this area – told us that "from a normative point of view, corruption consists of a practice or detour that involves a violation of legal, criminal and/or non-codified standards that define how the exercise of a post or the role of delegated authority should be in a given social and temporal context. From a transactive point of view, corruption is a hidden pact, which implies an exchange, from which it results an improper, immediate or prolonged, real or symbolic benefit, financial or non-pecuniary, to the contracting parties and to a third party." In this case, of what we know, which has not been denied at any time – and I will mention it later – by Mr Baltar, we are faced with a pact in which he, in exchange for a non-pecuniary benefit, but symbolic, as a woman's sexual favors, gave her a job in the Deputy. So it perfectly agrees with the definition of corruption given to us by Galicia's senior prosecutor of justice in this country. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, if you really want to be a clean party, if you really want someone – starting with Members and Members of this House – we believe that they have a real commitment to transparency and against corruption and that it is not just electoral rhetoric that uses according to their interests, they will have to assume that this is a clear case of corruption and vote in favour of this initiative in which, among other things, we call for the immediate cessation of Mr Baltar. Let this Parliament ask Mr Baltar that a gentleman who is being investigated, not by the prosecutor - of course, who is still hibernate, as the corruption commission of this Parliament - but by a judge - because finally this citizen had to go to the trial so that his rights would be upheld, which, of course, in that sense, I would like to say that from this Parliament as well as this head of Ourense we would have to tell him that we would have to tell him that to see if when he receives other matters of gender violence he is also in such a hurry that two months later he will not do any kind of action. Well, as I said, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, what less than this Parliament, in which we are so worried about being ethically and corruptly, do we tell Mr Baltar that he can't go on a minute further presiding over an institution in this country? Why are we dealing with a gross violation of a woman's sexual rights? Why are we facing a case of gender-based violence? Because a president of an institution, president of a political party, taking advantage of his position as president, taking advantage of what we all know in Ourense for the past thirty years, which is that the Baltar family has the capacity to manipulate all the evidence of oppositions that are held in Ourense to that institution, taking advantage of that which we all know and all, obliges a person, against what his initial will was, to lie with him in suit 505 of the Hotel Francisco II to be able to compete with some oppositions, and rather than obtain – as she herself recognizes – possibly a bad qualification, he guarantees that he can manipulate the results so that he can get a good score. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, we also believe that Mr. Baltar must resign. But since the first time this matter has been discussed in this Parliament we have new elements. Here first came the whole thing that was a judicial matter. It's not a judicial issue, it's a political issue. Then Mr. Núñez Feijóo – who, of course, on a sofa, leaves the Protagoras as a genuine apprentice and then I will explain why – he has derived everything from the Ethics Committee of the Provincial Deputy. Well, look, in Ourense, it's not enough to resign Baltar because he's already resigned to the Ethics Committee of the Provincial Deputy of Ourense. [[Applause]] Because the unbearable fedor that comes out of the Provincial Deputy of Ourense forced that some gentlemen who were there on behalf of the College of Lawyers and Lawyers of Ourense, on behalf of the International Transparency organization, on behalf of the University of Vigo and on behalf of the College of Secretaries and Secretaries of the Local Administration ran away, because it was unbearable that the foyer of that situation and the inability to solve it. [[Applause]] Look, in the minutes of that meeting at which the four members of the Ethics Committee resigned say that Mr Baltar not only refused to clarify – as this committee asked him to do, in compliance with a regulation of ethics which the People's Party, supposedly approved for transparency, but that he is also another party party, another more democracy fiction of the People's Party, which obliges people affected by that regulation to answer to the committee –... and do you know what these four gentlemen say, as I say, these institutions? That Mr. Baltar doesn't just clarify it, but he doesn't deny it...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u165	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u166	... none of the facts that this citizen accuses him of – nor of forcing him to lie with him to choose a job, nor of any of the issues of promising him to manipulate some opposition, therefore, to commit two crimes: one, against the sexual freedom of the people, and another, against corruption –; he does not deny them, and simply leads to a supposed trial which is not known when it will be held. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, I have not been able to find the ethical code of the People's Party – I suppose it will be in a security box in Switzerland – but I have found the ethical code of the Galician Union, and I have been able to tell you on a permanent basis of exemplaryness in the performance of public office, of honesty, of not staining the name of the institutions, of not staining the representation that the Greeks and the Greeks give us to the people we hold any public office.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u167	It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u168	That's why, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, if you really believe in ethics, if you really believe in democracy, if you really think you're here not to spot the representation that people give you, you can't bear that a gentleman who was the protagonist of SMS and all the recordings we know through...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u169	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u170	...of the media – and we will probably know once again that the complaint filed is made public – you can follow another minute in front of an institution.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u171	Thank you very much, Mrs. Paz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u172	Finished, Madam President – if I may – saying that Protagoras, who was a sophistician who ended up tarnishing the name that ethymologically meant sophism, turning him into something false, hypocritical and almost saying that mercenary, thought that the human being was the measure of all things. And as a result, I thought...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u173	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u174	...that the rules should only be applied according to their own interests. That's why he said Mr. Núñez Feijóo is the biggest sofa, because the rules apply only when he's interested. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u175	Intervention of parliamentary groups. Joint Group, Mrs Iglesias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u176	Thank you, President. This will support this initiative as well explained by the rapporteur, Mrs Paz, but I am very afraid that the People's Party will reject it with the argument it employs as a mantra that respects the presumption of innocence and that they will wait for the judicial decisions to take political action. I don't know how to explain it anymore, because Mrs. Paz clearly explained it to you. We are tired of repeating to them that what we demand and that what we demand for citizenship are political responsibilities, as is the law, and a resolution adopted in this Parliament. But the case is such a big one and it's creating such a state of social alarm in the city of Ourense that I wonder how Mr Baltar, for the sake of democracy and for the sake of his party, is not taking a step forward and is positioning himself on the authorship of the messages and what apps made from privacy – I would say from the clandestine – but whose content is disseminated and evidenced politics of corruption and sexual harassment. Mr. Baltar should have the courage to assume his responsibility and not to download it to his party, to the president of his party and to the government of his party. If you assume your authorship, you should resign to face the possible legal actions arising from that. If he refuses to be the author, he should be the one who took the initiative in those overwhelming legal actions he says at all times he will take against the woman who denounces him. This would help to close this story, that would help the People's Party, that would help Parliament, that would help solve the problem. But Mr. Baltar doesn't. And why doesn't he? Because he doesn't care about his party, he doesn't care about the ethical exercise of politics, he doesn't care about the province of Ourense. The only thing that concerns Mr. Baltar son is to cling to the throne, which he considers to be in his castle, and also to safeguard himself from a supposed popular conspiracy that wants to evict him from the institution. This comes from a supposed app – this is indeed unknown source – which contains supposed threats to him – neither to the People's Party nor to the institution. So he, as he feels supposedly threatened, decides to wake up, by the public security forces, the MP's building to prevent the passage of persons who had the right to do so, acting – now if he acts quickly and forcefully – without waiting for judicial order or truth or anything. They resign each and every member of the Ethics Committee – as the previous associate well said – for the impossibility of performing his duties and Mr Baltar states that nothing happens, that concerns resignation and that soon there will be a new ethics committee, with total disrespect for democracy, for the institution and for all and how many ethical codes there are and will be.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u177	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u178	I wonder how long you, the People's Party, will look elsewhere, complicating these kinds of unthinkable practices in democracy. How long will you endure social criticism, media criticism and political criticism as the facts rush, one after another? It is, of course, that the president of the People's Party and the president of the Government, whose leader is questioned, because he is kidnapped and silenced, is not well known why, but it is by one of his, a member of a snout, of the strain of the caciques settled in Galicia since time immemorial; a strain very rooted in the tissues of power and on the right of Galicia, of which it is clear that the Baltar family...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u179	Finish, Mrs Iglesias, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u180	There are rumors, ladies and gentlemen, that you – finished, President – fear the reactions of that family, if you refuse the conduct of the individual. For the sake of democracy, for the dignity of the office that gives them the votes, I hope that they will dismiss this rumor and approve this initiative. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u181	Thank you very much, Mrs. Churches. Parliamentary Group of the Left Galician Alternative. You have the word of Mr. Anton Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u182	Good morning. I was talking about the BNG spokesman of a case that produces a lot of festering in the House of Ourense. My friend Bocixa sang in the Zënzar group, which is from Cerceda, where Sogama is: "Smells bad, smells bad, local politics; smells good, smells good, the shit that brings the train." Because the shit that got the train smelled better than Cerceda's local politics. The shit that brings the train to Sogama smells so much better than what happens in the House of Ourense and in the People's Party, by extension and by allowing it. It smells very bad at a party that admits this and that keeps silent, and not only that, that it embraces and defends Mr. Baltar. Something very serious happens in the People's Party when it acts like this. A president of a parliament is denounced by a woman who provides recordings, messages and SMS, where she mixes up sex in a hotel with job promises, where she talks about modifying notes of public opposition exams and where practice is accepted – on the other hand, a secret to the voices of plugging in the Deputy. After these complaints, the citizenry expected explanations beyond the judicial or criminal responsibilities that might exist. A political leader in a democracy is due to the citizens, and they have the right to know whether what matters to the conversations we all hear is so or not. Are those tapes true, yes or no? If they're false, why don't you say so? If they're true, you have to resign or explain the meaning that he can give you so you don't have to resign. Simply, as we all know, even the members of the People's Party, the recordings are true, the facts are true, and we all know how the House of Ourense, the People's Party, and the Baltars in the House of Ourense worked all these years; we all know, and you, the members of the People's Party, too. We all know customer practices, which mean either you're a friend of a Baltar or the other, the trombone or the electric guitar, or you won't have a chance to work in the Public Service. We all know that those who are not mine are enemies. We all know that this modus operandi needs to create dependencies on people to have to thank the cachique until they can have a job in the province. Such is the seriousness of the case of what we say that the Ethics Committee itself set up by Baltar resigned after hearing the allegations made in this case. How the thing must be! According to the Committee's document of the Ethics Committee, it did not roundly deny the facts, because they are simply true; they are true, and the oressans, the oressians, the Greeks and the Greeks continue without explanation in an absolute and intolerable lack of respect. But if this is serious, it is far more serious than the President of the Council of Galicia is going to defend and defend with offensive arguments Mr Baltar and his actions. But the sad thing is that we are no longer surprised by Mr Feijóo and his moral grasp. Unfortunately, the People's Party is concerned only about the electoral and political wear in this case, but it has assumed and assumed this way of proceeding normally for all these years. "They're not important matters, they've always been so," he's heard among the ranks of the People's Party. This is becoming a dangerous profession for those who do things like Mr. Baltar. Of course, it seems very good to us that it becomes a dangerous profession for those who do this. You hear this is becoming a dangerous profession. Of course, there are some who are not afraid of these things. They are assumed for the People's Party and, according to the president, we, in the opposition, are concerned about secondary issues: the dignity of people, the democratic health of the country, the rights of women and the structural violence...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u183	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u184	...exercised on them. We were concerned about the thousands of young men and women who during the years of the reign of the Baltar dynasty – inherited, inherited from their fingers – had to emigrate because they were not friends of the family. Mr. Feijóo argued there's no crime because he couldn't get the job. Great moral sanity and great knowledge of the Criminal Code! Let Mr. Feijóo read Article 419 and 443. It seems that Mr. Baltar's actions have been taken to draft it. It's about having a respirable democracy or not, or that, even above all, when all this noise passes, it humiliates itself and puts up reprisals against the victims of these policies, which is what can happen if you don't help take action. This will happen, and in Ourense the victims will be reprisaled still above. Mr. Feijó at the previous appearance...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u185	Please finish, Mr. Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u186	I said we should wait for the information that the Prosecutor's Office could provide. And Mr. Feijóo doesn't trust the information that Baltar himself can provide? What information do you have to receive from the prosecutor's office? Talk to Mr. Baltar and tell him whether these tapes are true or not and...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u187	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u188	...these messages, and point. What do you have to expect from the prosecutor's office? Can't you talk to him? Don't you trust him? Or do those relationships of dependence that are given in the Orensian society also happen in the People's Party...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u189	Thank you very much, Mr. Sanchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u190	...and then in those relationships of dependence – and finished, Madam President – everything is all about: how much can you hurt me, how much do I owe you, how much do you owe me? Then we understand why Mr. Feijóo...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u191	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u192	...to defend Mr Baltar, despite the electoral and political cost that he may have assumed. Because there is fear, because there are power relationships within the People's Party...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u193	Thank you very much, Mr. Sanchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u194	...as they do in the House of Ourense and in the province of Ourense. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u195	Socialist Group. Mr. Fernández, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u196	Thank you, Madam President. Indeed, Mrs Paz, we are in Parliament; therefore, we are in a political debate, and it is not at all a personal matter, but it is a matter that has to do with the ethics and the cleansing of a democracy and an institution, as in this case is the Provincial Deputy of Ourense. And today are neither good days nor good evenings nor good nights for an oresan like me who has suffered more than one month the scorn and ridicule that the president of the Ourense Provincial Deputy continues to be Lord – and that is one saying – White Baltar. I know that for many of you – I would say that for all of you, since you are not Mr. President or Mr. Vice-President – oresans and non-Urensans, this is a disgusting, shameful and unbearable issue for a democracy, which must have been resolved more than a month ago and should not last longer than 24 hours since the recordings and SMS were known. You must be finished by your own decision or by your own decision. But this disgusting process remains alive because the People's Group, better said, the highest leaders of the People's Party in Galicia, Mr. Feijóo and Mr. Rueda, give political coverage and immunity to the aggressor by remedying that "be strong", "resist." Today, one more day, I feel sadness and indignation for me, for us, as individuals and as politicians; I grieve above all when I lay on the skin of many peasants, scattered throughout Spain and the world, who had to make their bags to be free and not be subjected to the bauthane established power; orenean peasants, forced emigrants who suffer the taunts of the neighbours where they reside, before and now, as originals of land of cacists and bullies. Twenty-five years of Baltarism, projecting inside and outside the most excruciable of the political and human condition; twenty-five years denying the values and strengths of Ourense province and its people by the images of its presidents. And outrage at the use of a public institution as a recruitment sector office, the systematic violation of personnel selection processes, the manipulation of selective process notes, the anti-democratic conduct, the boycott of the institution's control function, the improper appropriation of the provincial court as a personal – now the Baltar service. Indignant because twenty-two years of Baltar Dad's presidency created a social context of dependence and exclusion, of rooting out the people's market, of identifying Ourense with caciquism and entuffism. Mrs. Peace, only three years have it taken the heir Baltar Blanco to exhibit the heritage sense he has of the goods and services of the Provincial Deputy of Ourense. And it took only three years to exemplify with words and facts not denied the type of medieval model in which you want to install; a feudal model of owners and subjects, a model in which the owner does not have to explain and the woman becomes inferior. That's why he says it's a personal matter, because he considers himself the owner and lord. Ladies and gentlemen, we don't understand the slowness and persuasion they've been acting on, they're still acting on, or they haven't acted on organs that have much to say about this alleged attack...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u197	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u198	... against the freedom and dignity of an oransian woman. One of them is the Secretariat of Equality, so we will support this initiative. But if there's something we don't understand, it's the position of the President of the People's Party of Galicia and the President of the Government of Galicia. He blames the victim and saves the aggressor, supports the stalker and mistreats the victim, fails to comply with the law, promotes political immunity, supports caciquism...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u199	Please finish, Mr. Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u200	...back feudal practices in Ourense and despise women. Or is Mr. Feijóo also dependent on Baltar? Or does your present and political future depend on Mr. Baltar Blanco? Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u201	Thank you very much, Mr. Fernández. People's Parliamentary Group. You have the floor to Mrs. Prado del Río.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u202	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are debating a non-legislative proposal by the Galego Nationalist Block that calls on the General Secretariat of Equality to immediately open an investigation into the failure to comply with Law 11/2007 of 27 July 2007 for the comprehensive prevention and treatment of gender violence in relation to the exercise of its office by the President of the Council of Ourense. First of all, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that the General Secretariat of Equality does not have the powers attached to it by the Galician Nationalist Block, since Article 6 of Decree 72/2013 of 25 April provides for the organizational structure of the Vice-Presidentship and the Presidency Council, Public Administrations and Justice, does not establish that role of the General Secretariat of Equality. Ladies and gentlemen, you're talking about some of the facts that we only know through a media, and you haven't even transcended the content or the denunciation of what you're talking about on your initiative, in which, yes, you're bringing about some criminal facts and even dareing to criminalize a criminal offence. As you well know, ladies and gentlemen, in the criminal proceedings there are five stages depending on the stage at which we are at: investigated, from the moment when it is indicated that a person may have committed a criminal offence; prosecuted, when the prosecution is said; accused, when the prosecutor's office or the prosecution has filed an indictment before the competent judicial body; prosecuted, since the moment when the oral and public trial is carried out before a court; and convicted or acquitted when the accused person has obtained a sentencing or acquittal. You, gentlemen, have reached the last stage. You have pronounced a conviction without even having been given the first proceedings of a criminal trial; those that occur once this is initiated by an investigating judge, those that are directed at obtaining evidence of trial to determine whether it is possible to attribute a criminal fact to a particular person and whether there is any possibility of carrying out the practice of investigative acts, and those that are carried out by the judicial police under the direction of an investigating judge. And for now, what we know is that the Prosecutor's Office, an independent body, has filed it. It wasn't hibernate, it was being investigated. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we cannot speak of responsibility as long as the charges are not proved to be true. We can't talk about political responsibility unless the charges are proven to be true. You can't articulate when there's not a single proven fact yet, when not only a single phase of that process has not been opened up, but the Prosecutor's Office has just filed it. In the meantime, we can only appeal to the presumption of innocence, which, as you know, is no longer a general principle of the right to inform judicial activity to become a fundamental right that binds to all public authorities and is of immediate application. We are, therefore, ladies and gentlemen, in the face of a presumption of so-called iuris alone, which means that everyone is accused of being innocent until he is proved guilty. Ladies and gentlemen, the presumption of innocence is based on two principles: the first is that of free assessment of the evidence, which is to be carried out solely and exclusively to the judges and courts, under the requirement of Article 117.3 of the Spanish Constitution, and the second is that in order to overturn this presumption it is necessary to provide valid evidence always giving rise to the defence of the accused. In a multitude of Constitutional Court rulings, they can find this doctrine of presumption of innocence; this doctrine is distorted every time such a matter arises. It is of no use to say that the presumption of innocence goes forward if what is assumed is guilt. And many are the evidence that this parliamentary group has given about the presumption of innocence. As an example, I ask you a question: Have you heard any member of this parliamentary group ask any questions, demonstrations, consideration or present any initiative on the former Minister of Socialist Justice, who signed the Gender Violence Act and who was charged with a crime of gender violence? No, ladies. Has this group or any group of this House submitted any initiative on the Minister of Justice charged with gender-based violence? No, ladies. And we rejoice, ladies and gentlemen, that in the end it had returned this person's ill-deserved honor. [[Applause]] And I ask them another question: what political responsibilities should a high-ranking officer or a Member of this House be charged or charged with commercial falsehood and fraud? Should we ask for some responsibility...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u203	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u204	...political? Yeah, take note.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u205	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u206	Ladies and gentlemen, from the People's Parliamentary Group – last, President – we are not going to change our opinion and, as the President said, caution – we are not going to prejudge, as we have just done here, nor speak before the courts do, the Prosecutor's office has just done it – and firm to act accordingly, once those decisions have been made.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u207	Thank you very much, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u208	What if I wanted to make it clear – only one thing to finish, Madam President – in my name and in the name of the party's parliamentary group where I stand, is that we all have a clear commitment against any kind of violence against women and all the militants of the People's Party...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u209	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u210	...we have a clear commitment to defending equality and to eradicating any conduct that was violent against a woman. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u211	Thank you very much. Group author of the non-law proposal. Mrs. Paz Franco has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u212	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs. Prado, you have just shown that, besides being a sophistician, you are a [...] also in terms of current... [[(By order of the President and in accordance with Rule 106(3) of the Rules of Procedure, this expression is withdrawn from the Journal of Sessions.)]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u213	Ma'am...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u214	...philosophic.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u215	I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u216	Because the same person who comes here to get us the Lord of the Canary Islands, who was Minister of Justice, and who comes here to recriminalize us that we have brought this matter to Parliament, is the one who asked a gentleman to resign by talking about the "Vice President's Gold Shochite" and the one who made a press round because he was even attacking the honour of the vice president. And what happens, that the honorability of the rest of the women is of no importance? Does this Austrian lady have no respect for what this Parliament has to look after, Mrs. Paula Prado? [[Applause]] On the other hand, I appreciate the kind of procedural criminal law that Mrs Prado has given us, but I have to tell you, Professor, that you have suspended, because you have forgotten that in the matter of gender violence the burden of proof is reversed precisely since the adoption of the Gender Violence Act. [[Applause]] And, look, with regard to the Prosecutor's Office, here are 14 Members and Members who are from Ourense – the rest also know a lot about Ourense. I also had the honour of being a provincial representative for six years and being the spokesperson for my staff group. In Ourense, we all know that for more than 20 years we have been complaining to the Prosecutor's Office Mr Baltar for using the Deputy to plug in, and the Prosecutor's Office, until the People's Party has been invited to charge Mr Baltar, he has done nothing. So to me, the credibility of the prosecution instrumentalized by the People's Party and this prosecutor in particular, which has a lot to do with the Vilamarin hypodrome of the Ourense Provincial Deputy, – the prosecutor also has to give some explanation at some point – I have no problem either, because from the beginning I said that I am not here to make a criminal trial, but rather a political trial. [[Applause]] And my political judgment is still the same: Mr. Baltar is a corrupt lord who doesn't deserve to be in front of an institution. And Mr. Baltar, now that he's so fashionable Kant – I don't know if you know Kant's sexual ethics – from that point of view, because of the attack on the dignity of the people and the women who assume his attitude toward this woman, it's not worth a second in the public life, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party. And remember, Mrs Prado and the rest of the militants, Members and Members of the People's Party...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u217	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u218	...and the President of the Galician Union, who, when you vote here, are not voting a sentence of guilt or criminal innocence from Mr Baltar, are voting in favour of a gentleman, in the use of his public office, say, "Yes, yes, yes, now, after casting all these, we're going to make a history of social services...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u219	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u220	...and I'll fix the problem; don't worry, don't doubt me." Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u221	Mrs. Peace, the qualification you started by referring to Mrs. Prado, I beg you to withdraw it. [[Mrs. Paz Franco utters words that are not perceived.]] No, no, I won't give you the word, Mrs. Peace, I'll just ask you... if you don't take it away, I'll take it away, and call it by order. [[Mrs. Paz Franco utters words that are not perceived.]] Thank you very much. [[Mrs. Paz Franco utters words that are not perceived.]] No, the qualification from the beginning. You can talk about management and what you want. I have already said that I would not tolerate qualifications and direct accusations against any Member or Member of this House, Mrs Paz. He's retired. We continue with the point of non-law proposals. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of Da Noela Blanco Rodríguez and two other Members, on the demands to be made by the Government of Greece to the Central Government and the European Union in relation to sustainable urban development programmes of the Feder Plan 2014-2020
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u222	This motion for a non-law was tabled by two amendments, the Joint Parliamentary Group and the Parliamentary Group on the Nationalist Block in Wales.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u223	You have the floor, to formulate your non-law proposition, Mrs. Noela Blanco, of the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u224	Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u225	Sorry, sorry, a moment there's a little noise. Please be quiet, please. You have the floor to Mrs. Blanco.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u226	Thank you, President. I'm not going to say hello again, after the sad show we just saw right now in this House. A few days ago, I was asked by a fellow, a man, where were the women of the People's Party. I told him that from the women of the People's Party only they heard applause; applause – yes, applause – when some member of his party protected a alleged sexual stalker...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u227	Mrs. White!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u228	Today it was even more serious. Today we hear a woman not only defend a suspected sexual stalker but attack a woman...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u229	Mrs. White! Mrs. White!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u230	...in this House; one woman attacking another woman...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u231	Mrs. White!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u232	A woman!, Mrs. Prado, with the work that has cost us to have representation in the House, with the struggle of many women...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u233	Mrs. White! Mrs. White! Mrs. Blanco, would you like to hear me, please? [[Mrs. Blanco Rodríguez speaks words that are not perceived.]] Mrs. Blanco, call her in order. When I tell you the president...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u234	Yes, call me, Madam President, call me...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u235	Well, will you let me talk?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u236	I don't know for you, but it's outrageous for me.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u237	I don't know if your group explained the minimum rules of parliamentary courtesy to you, I don't know if you explained them to you, but then I ask you that when I tell you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u238	The same courtesy that the members of the Bureau should have when speaking to the president of the board and a member of the bureau are doing the penalty for the opposition; the same courtesy, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u239	Mrs. Blanco, second call to order. Mrs. Blanco, I ask you to respect him.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u240	The same respect we ask the Bureau for; the same, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u241	Mrs. Blanco, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u242	...the same respect!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u243	And I ask you to focus on the matter, please, Mrs. Blanco, if not, I'll have to ask you to leave the rostrum. Do the favor. Go on.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u244	I'm going to the non-law proposition. Since ruling the People's Party in Galicia and Madrid the attacks on municipalism are constant; a sample is the new Law of Local Reform, which aims to limit the execution of policies to consistories...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u245	Mr. Fajardo!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u246	...social, employment or support for education, leaving them with no resources, no capacity or skills to do so when it comes into force. A law that from next year will affect more than 2.5 million people; a reform that will prevent the municipalities from giving dining bags, giving help to the elderly home, giving food checks, energy or renting families who are going through it. This attack on municipalism, along with the abandonment of our rural environment, with policies of the PP government that are going behind the primary sectors, with cuts in basic services such as infant schools, with cuts in health care facilities in rural health centres, prevents not only increasing the population but even favouring emigration and today we have as scandalous data as that in municipalities of less than 2,000 inhabitants under the age of 30 is only 4.2% of the population. In this context, in this landscape of desertification of our rural environment, and in view of the economic asphyxiation to which the municipalities are undergoing, investments are more necessary than ever; investments which, when we refer to Community funds, pose a real scandal to the Socialist Group. It is a scandal the degree of execution of the Feder 2007-2013 operational programme, which is now 15 points below the state average, and is losing more than 400 million euros in community aid. In this scenario, in this scenario, we enter the next period in 2014-2020. And we must remember that the objective of sustainable growth must be achieved in accordance with the 2020 Strategy by promoting an economy that makes more effective use of the greener and more competitive resources. In order to achieve these objectives, Community fund regulations provide for at least 5% of the resources of the ERDF funds to be devoted to integrated measures for sustainable development, which integrates the social, economic and environmental areas of the population. It must be said that we are not surprised that out of this call the municipalities of less than 20,000 inhabitants and also the deputies remained. He was already circulating a draft that hoped for a further attack by the People's Party on the rural environment and on municipalism. There was therefore an agreement from the Spanish association, a national strategic document, which prepares each Member State, where the priorities are set out. The reduction – this reduction – for municipalities of less than 20,000 inhabitants was already collected. The Government of Spain is unable to defend in front of the European Union entities which are of vital importance to the territorial organization of the whole country, with the consequent risk of cracking between urban and rural environment that this may entail, with a severe blow to the municipalities. Galicia is, by its eminently rural nature, one of the most affected. To exclude from programming these municipalities is to leave 93% of the municipalities, the nearest institutions to more than 1,300,000 Greeks and Greeks. Some funds that are of vital importance right now, when we talk about economic recovery; some funds that are important to escape the united crisis, without discrimination in rural areas; some funds that aim not to land the work that has been carried out so far. That is why we call on the Government of Spain to include Members and urban nuclei of less than 20,000 inhabitants as beneficiaries of these European funds, and to ask the European Community for the presence of Members and rural municipalities in these programmes, without any kind of population limit. We also ask the State to take the necessary measures to achieve the recognition of rural areas in the context of sustainable urban development that is co-financed by the Feder funds for the period 2014-2020. What we are demanding today from the Socialist Group with the presentation of this initiative, ladies and gentlemen, is nothing more than equal opportunities, a more prosperous rural environment, where there are no more children who have to say what to say about: "I am Balbino, a village boy; as anyone says, a nobody, and also poor." Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u247	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u248	In the light of this non-legislative proposal presented by the Socialist Party in everything that refers to the exclusion of municipalities of less than 20,000 inhabitants, the solution is that it cannot be helped to strengthen institutions such as the incrusted deputies, against all logic, in the midst of the Greek administrative framework. If it was not enough to lose powers to reform these local laws, which obliges small councils to increase the dependence of the deputies on the provision of services or on their privatization, if it had not been sufficient for Members to absorb funds which, if there is no deputies, should be allocated to small councils, bringing them closer to those who perceive as inhabitants the municipalities of more than 20,000, it is still proposed that Members should also benefit from European funds in the period 2014-2020. It might be argued that in the past Members have managed, and in any case efficiently, European funds, but this is not enough for those who have been defending the disappearance of Members and the transfer of their functions to self-government or comarcas, always pending to be set in motion as a local super-municipal administration consistent with the social reality of our nation's territory. Nor is it any less the reason for the deputies to be institutions whose members are not directly elected by citizenship and which are almost always a child of caciquism who has its greatest exponent in the Ourense Parliament, even before the administrative-sexual negotiations of Baltar junior, immaculate to President Núñez, which respects the decision to resign from the entire Ethics Committee. I just wish I didn't respect her! Beyond the presumption of innocence, the president has already tried and acquitted Baltar, saying that he has not committed a crime because he has not placed the victim in the Deputy. He only needs to say that Baltar is a saint who resisted the temptation of an evil woman; a Adam tempted by Eve, even though articles 443 and 419 of the Criminal Code say that the crime is consumed by offering or promise. Returning to the non-law proposition of the PSOE, except as regards Members, I agree with the considerations presented by the group. The Order of 13 November in relation to the Feder 1420 operational programme excludes municipalities of less than 20,000 inhabitants. The application of the above-mentioned order in Galicia results in the exclusion of most of the population and the vast majority of the territory of Galicia from Plan Feder. It goes without saying that in the eastern provinces, the dramatic example of the demographic decline and the example of the abandonment of the land and of the few people left, only the two provincial capitals, Lugo and Ourense, can benefit from these European funds, if there is no remedy to the barbarism perpetrated by Madrid's ignorance and the disgruntling of the Galician Union. They don't get any more reasons to demand the change in the ministerial order. In our nation, the settlement of the population is peculiar, or is a set of integrated villages or decentralised cities. It has as much as we call it, but nothing resembles the settlements of the steppe population; hence the rules made for Castile or other similar lands are absolutely disastrous for our country. The minimum dimensions for making viable and efficient projects will be achieved equally with functional units produced from the grouping of large or small comarcas or municipalities, but for Galicia it is necessary to include municipalities of less than 20,000 inhabitants. The inclusion of the comarcas, although not constituted as members of the local administration, may serve to encourage the collaboration of the municipalities and to go to practice the collaboration of the municipalities of the same region. I'm done. I will support this LNP, hoping that I will accept the amendment to replace "deputation" with "commaration" or any other formula that will not be directed at strengthening Members. In case the amendment is not accepted, I will abstain, because I believe that Members have no meaning to this day in our country. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u249	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Paz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u250	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have just understood twenty minutes ago why the People's Party wants to banish the philosophy of our country's high school classes: so that children and girls don't hear bad words like "symnics" I don't know if "stoics" also enters the same category, but, in any case, we finally have the explanation. The Parliamentary Group of the Galego Nationalist Block considers that the management of the European funds that has been done by the Government of the People's Party – especially in what was the negotiation to get the Spanish State, despite the fact that it has statistically exceeded the threshold of 75% of the European average income, which makes us not within Objective 1 regions and therefore the negotiation for us to enter into the phasing-out or transition regions... – and the results obtained from these negotiations, was, in spite of that, that for this period 2014-2020, in the Spanish State and, therefore, in Galicia, we will have many fewer European funds both in the Feder programme and in the EAFR to allocate in a case to the development and cohesion of infrastructures and in another case to rural development. This is mainly due to dislocation and mismanagement carried out in the previous period, which, in fact, has left many unexecuted funds. Here in Galicia we have the example of the RDP, of the EAFRD funds, which is likely to end in 2015 – at the end of the year, it is worth redundancy, the N+2 period, the execution of European funds – with the lowest level of execution of all history. Having said that, we have to say that the problem is no longer just European legislation or the negotiation of the content of funds before the European Union. The problem, as always, is the application of the European legislation which the Spanish State makes of these European funds. And as a result of this application, we have to exclude all municipalities, all populations of less than 20,000 inhabitants, that is, the vast majority of those in Galicia. If we join the EAFRD funds, all of the more than 10,000 inhabitants, there remains a very relevant part of our territory – which is between 10,000 and 20,000 inhabitants – without access to any possibility of obtaining any kind of European fund, or Feder or EAFRD, for the development of all kinds of activities. That is why we, of course, agree with this initiative that we cannot from the Spanish State have such a centralist conception, so focused on the large urban areas and conurbations of the Spanish State, leaving absolutely abandoned, in this case, the group of Galicia. We are not, therefore, faced with the contradiction of large cities or small cities, we are faced with a contradiction of a conception, as we have said here, centralist and thrown fundamentally in the center and south of the Spanish state, in the face of a conception in which autonomous communities, which in addition have competence in many areas in which these Feder funds must then be applied, have something to say, both when negotiating in Europe, and above all when it comes to how these funds are applied in the Spanish state. We tabled an amendment because we do not agree to give Members any more competence. And, therefore, we do not agree that Members also have competence in managing these funds; we believe that they have to be directly the municipalities or through the Autonomous Community. It's a matter, let's say, of the conception that we have that we must progressively dismantle the Members. But it's also because we don't want Mr Baltar to have more resources to keep doing his instrumentalization policies. Now that these are so fashionable apps and their use in the political forums, let me read a whatsthis app. The PP gentlemen are sure they know who the sender is: Luis Manuel Vergara Gómez. He's the manager of the PP of Ourense, for those who don't know. Today there is an election of the People's Party with its candidate, and this gentleman, the manager, sends an app saying, "I'll get back to the mail sent yesterday. There was an error on the phone indicated for confirmation of assistance" And it gives four phones from the Cultural Center of the U.S. Deputy, from public offices...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u251	Finish. Finish it, Mrs. Peace.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u252	...and a time to confirm. I'm saying that because if you've forgotten some MP, you have to...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u253	It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u254	...eight and a half to confirm your attendance at Ourense Provincial Deputy...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u255	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u256	...to a PP act. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u257	Thank you very much. Parliamentary Group of the Alternative Left Gallega, Mr Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u258	Well, Mr. Santalices' bad luck is that it's also about speaking about Members on this initiative. We believe it is well thought out, although we agree with the Joint Group and with the BNG on the matter of Members. This is a sample of the failure, of one more failure that came with the label of good managers, but that of good managers had nothing. It is the deficit we have in this country, that we have a territorial organization that can facilitate endogenous economic development, an appropriate scale for our country, an appropriate administrative organization for our country. This country had to have, after so many years, a comarcasization plan made, organize rural areas, organize metropolitan areas, etc. to have that own administrative organization, adapted to us. The municipalities do not always reflect what the economic and social life of this country is. And the 2014-2020 operational programme reflects that lack of adaptation of our administrative structure to the needs of the country. That's why we're moved from the top to the point that at least 20,000 people in Galicia don't have urban areas, which is a lie. Under 20,000 people, if there are urban areas that need funds, for example, to do urban regeneration programs, and they're going to be out because of the inactivity of this government of good managers, you know. Government of good managers that has demonstrated this great management in the execution of Feder funds, of the Operational Programme 2007-2013 – data published in May 2015 regarding the execution, of the 2014 level of execution –, operational program that ends in 2015. So there's little left to finish running. It will be lost, as has been said here, about 400 million euros, just as it will also be the most historic loss due to the lack of execution of the RDP - Rural Development Programme - which already in the years that you have ruled, those years of after the bonus – obviously also coincided with your Government, for something too – you would disavow millions and millions of euros that come from Europe simply because you are champions of the deficit and because you are unable to run the projects. It's very serious. R & D, Feder Fund of the Operational Programme: implementation, 25%; technology transfer, 25% –for the advisor to talk about Industry 4.0–; investment in innovative companies, 37%; services and applications for small and medium-sized enterprises, 28%; day centres –are wasted, unless it is remedied in the last year –, 5 million euros – you waste 47% for day centres –; technology transfer and improvement of pemes cooperation networks, did not run even 1%; aid for the improvement of tourism service – Miss Romero, tourism, commitment to tourism, good tourism management – run 33%. You lose 14 million euros because of your disability and lack of management. Child custody infrastructure, you lose 51%, which means 3 million euros in infrastructure, as necessary, as you say, for conciliation, for the demographic crisis, etc. Plan Renew bus stations, more than 50% not running, etc. This is the level of management of Mr Feijóo's Government, once again, concerned about the real needs of this country, which acryptically accepts the taxes coming from the European Union and the Spanish State without Galicia having its own voice to say: here there are urban areas with less than 20,000 inhabitants and we need Feder funds to provide them with the same services that the inhabitants of municipalities have more than 20,000 in other parts of the state. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u259	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs García Pacín.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u260	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, ladies. Mrs. Blanco, I couldn't help but be surprised when I saw the show and the scene of its vehemence, which I fully respect but cannot share. What I do share is – and I am also referring to them – the words of my companion, Mrs. Prado, who I also subscribe to. But today much has been said about the deputies, especially the House of Ourenses, and they have forgotten another badge of deputation. I think your vehemence should be even in Lugo too, from Lugo, from the MP, to defend the socialist management of that local entity. Maybe you should give up... and I'm sending you an invitation to be neighbouring Lugo and you can with that vehemence defend a socialist management that I assure you that you have many evasive and many criticisms; and they're giving you a show for the citizenship of the entire province. [[Applause]] Mrs. Blanco, we understand that you will, perhaps, accept the amendments proposed by the opposition groups in writing and even verbally, as Mr. Sánchez did from AGE, and remove references to Members from the resolution of his initiative. We understand that Members, as provincial entities, are necessary and that they do a vital task of advising all municipalities, which do not have enough legal, technical and economic means; that is, the management of Members should be as their own initiative. But I think it's the only question we can agree on, the importance of Members, because, if we go to the issue and read carefully the points that you propose, for example, the third one, we see: "Ask the State to take necessary measures to achieve the recognition of rural areas in the context of sustainable urban development, co-financed by Feder funds". Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the Feder funds – just like the EAFRD funds, of those mentioned here, like the social funds, like the fishing funds and sea funds, like all European funds – must be supported – under one regulation, with a planning strategy so that the investments will not overlap, because you claim that they will not reach the neighbours and neighbours of less than 20,000 inhabitants. And even at the second point it specifies "no population limit", when it refers to those issues. Look, Your Honor, in the past period Members could either join or make specific operational programs and strategies for areas comprising at least 20,000 inhabitants, and I want to understand that Feder investments were made in my county. That is, the limitation of the 20,000 inhabitants already existed in the past period and in my municipality if we were Feder's receivers, like many municipalities, because, Your Honor, one thing is operational programs – which may be susceptible to different measures, of different funds – and the receivers, the neighbors and neighbours of rural areas, but what is not to question planning at these heights, Your Honor, because you did here refer to drafts and issues that came from almost a year ago. So these initiatives, classes, as my fellow nationalists say. Now, for example, we have come to the question of not including municipalities of less than 20,000 inhabitants, when there are examples already and we have a call to define the specific strategies of cities of more than 50,000. Because, Your Honor, four of the urban areas are also collected in different typologies. It looks at the third and fourth areas, where it is specified: urban areas formed by municipalities of more than 20,000 inhabitants and peripheral municipalities of less than 20,000. That is, there are peripheral municipalities that can merge into joint strategies – which is called integral planning – and can access funds, which you say do not exist, or urban areas of populations over 20,000 inhabitants made up of groups of municipalities of less than 20,000 inhabitants. Your grouping can access Feder backgrounds. And, ladies and gentlemen – the important thing – here the opposition groups were opposed to budget allocation. Well even in this call – the first call, but there's supposed to be another one –...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u261	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u262	...they come more Feder funds for Galicia than on other occasions. And let's remember that Galicia is the second region – we only have Andalusia – Feder funds recipient. I understand that execution is subject to economic conditions, but, Your Honor, I assure you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u263	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u264	...that in the next economic period conditions will be – because so ensured by the governments of the People's Party – much better than those we inherited, with the generalized crisis caused by the Socialist Party. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u265	Thank you, Mrs. García Pacín. Author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Blanco.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u266	Thank you, President. The first is that I am not clear, Mrs Pacín, that the initiative will be supported. Don't you? Okay. With regard to the amendment of the Joint Group, we cannot accept it, Mrs Martínez, since, while recognizing the uniqueness of the districts and their proximity policies, they do not even now have the human resources or the technical resources needed to deal with a fund management in this period. Mrs. Peace, you know that I share the theme of the House of Ourense, but not all of the Members are like Mr. Baltar's chair or like Mr. Fabra's current chair. It would be unfair to punish all Members of Parliament for individual cases and specific cases, which I want to think – and I think so – that I am not a generality. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And, in fact, this initiative did not intend to open the debate on the need or not of Members; that is another different debate which I think does not proceed right now. Right now that entity exists, it is an entity that structures our territory and, of course, provides an important service to small municipalities. Look, Mrs. Pacín, I have to show you, first of all, my surprise because you don't support this initiative. Very much, Mrs. Pacín; yes, yes, I mean it. Look, at the plenary session of the House of Ourense – and it's not really about continuing the subject, but I'm from Ourense and it's happened there, okay? – last month, a full that all the opposition left in the absence of Mr Baltar's explanations... I recommend that you open the Members' page and see, when this initiative was taken, what did the People's Group vote. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Because the People's Group and the Socialist Group voted in favour of this initiative, Mrs Pacín. So, what you came here today is that, when it's to go from the hand of a suspected sexual stalker, you of course do, but when it's to support an initiative, then you don't even agree with each other. And you told me why we didn't introduce him before. Well, look, Mrs. Pacín, we didn't introduce him before because this was published on the BOE on November 17, okay? And you told me, with reference to the subject of deputies too, that it was not true that the Government of Spain imposed that limitation, and that it also told me that it came from earlier programs, and it's not true. Moreover, to answer a parliamentary question – I do not know whether the European Parliament is also a Member of the European Commission – says that urban character, territory, in those strategies "should be a prerequisite, which is set out in the Association Agreement of Spain, which provides for a threshold of 20,000 inhabitants". With which, it's making it clear that it was an initiative by the Government of Spain.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u267	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u268	This initiative, Mrs Pacín, was voted in almost all of Spain's deputies, almost all of them. This is the first time the People's Party votes against, and do it here.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u269	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u270	It's your responsibility.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u271	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u272	The responsibility lies with the Galician People's Party, which, of course...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u273	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u274	...have an attitude towards the management of European funds...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u275	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u276	...disgusting, Mrs. Pacín...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u277	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u278	...disgusting.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u279	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. Together, at the initiative of Da María Consuelo Martínez García, on the position of the Galician Parliament, the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece and the demands to be made by the Central Government in relation to the people affected by thalidomide
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u280	This motion for a non-law has tabled two amendments: one from the Socialist Parliamentary Group and the other from the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u281	For the defense of the non-law proposition, Mrs Martínez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u282	Thank you, President. We now have a non-law proposal that seeks to remedy an injustice that has suffered for 60 years by many people. I mean the victims of thalidomide. Avite, the Association of Victims of the Talidomide of Spain has referred to the 8500 state councils, as well as to the autonomous communities, the following request for approval, which I take as my own and in its name transfer to the Parliament of Galicia for approval. The thalidomide patented in Spain in March 1954. It was a wonderful sedative with no side effects, and it also palliated nausea and vomiting in pregnant women. She started to be born with a disproportionate number of children with severe malformations in her arms or legs, even without both. In November 1961 Dr. Lenz and Knapp discovered the relationship between thalidomide and malformations. Lenz calculated that infant mortality in the first year of life in children exposed to thalidomide during the gestation was 40%. The catastrophe of thalidomide has served to change all the legislation on health control of medicines, food, beverages and human consumption; so we can say that thanks to thalidomide humanity can be calm with the things that lead to the mouth and especially with the drugs. From thalidomide, researchers found that some drugs and substances could cross the placenta and alter embryonic development, which radically changed the perception and use of drugs and any treatment during pregnancy, which prevented many possible misfortunes in pregnant women and their fetuses. Between November 1961 and May 1962 it is withdrawn all over the world, except in the Spanish state, where it continues to be sold, still to the knowledge of its consequences, at least until 1975. German pharmacist Grünenthal has done his great business in the Spanish state for fourteen years to poison fetuses with the consent of the Government of the State, until the dictator dies. However, democracy has not been able to make justice to thalidomy people. The Avite has been fighting for eleven years in search of equalization with the victims of thalidomide from the rest of Europe, and on this long way the victims of the Spanish State have only made the Royal Decree 1006/2010 recognize only 24 people, to whom it granted what the text itself calls "help solidarity" or, more eloquently, a slogan to silence the fair claims of the people concerned. Avite has also managed to include thalidomide in Royal Decree 1851/2009 among the causes that justify an early retirement of 56 years to people who exceed 45% of disability. Surprisingly, there is no official and free body that recognizes who is affected by thalidomide and who is not, so a royal decree has been passed on to which the victims of thalidomide have no possibility of receiving themselves for lack of official recognition. It is essential that, in character prior to the establishment of any measure, the task of informing a diagnostic unit is centralized to the task of reporting that people are thalidomic and those who are not. That unit would be heir to the Carlos III Institute in Madrid, a public institution which was entrusted with this task by Royal Decree 1006/2010, and which ceased after the expiry of the period of application for recognition and assistance to any affected person in 2010. However, from 2010 until today, new evidence on periods of distribution of thalidomide in the state, as well as advances in genetics and other specialties, will facilitate the recognition of thalidomide people. He has also been sued by the civilian by the German laboratory Grünenthal, winning the trial in the first instance, being annulled by prescription by the Madrid Provincial Court and at present by the Supreme Court, leaving the group of victims of the State's thalidomide at the mercy of the Constitutional Court, with the most unjust and incomprehensible judgment of the state's judicial history. The Court concluded that most of them were permanent damages, whose effects were determined at birth, so they must have been claimed – say – by the injured at most within one year since they reached the age of majority, without taking into account that this was impossible until Decree 1006/2010, and it should be borne in mind that in the Spanish State it was not prohibited until 75, fourteen years after the rest of the countries, and that victims cannot be held accountable for not having faced a multinational without State support. In addition, in the midst of the Franco-French dictatorship, the idea that simple foot-to-foot citizens could impose responsibilities on authorities for mismanagement is pure fantasy. Society doesn't understand or understand this judgment, which can be legal, but that even for government itself is unfair. What is also incomprehensible is that, if the Government considers a judgment to be unfair, it does not act to correct such injustice. All victims in European countries have received compensation, vital pensions for victims, which guarantee them a decent survival and, above all, independence. Specialized medical units, specialized psychological units, free medication, prosthetics and orthoprosthetics. In the Spanish state, the victims received indifference, cruelty and no help, no economic, no health or social, nothing at all. The vast majority of the living victims of thalidomide that remain in the Spanish state, some five hundred of the more than three thousand who were born affected, survive family aid, charity, social welfare institutions and even exert begging in the streets of the big cities. Avoid demanding the creation of a medical unit for the diagnosis of people affected by thalidomide, because the diagnosis of people affected is a complex task that reaches various medical specialties: radiology, traumatology, genetics, and which is resolved in terms of probability, not certainty. That's why your diagnosis is so complicated. It is essential that patients be able to benefit from coordinated public medical treatment for thalidomide people in the face of conditions that suffer in their early aging, to have a unit that decides who is and who is not thalidomide. This unit is also necessary so that victims of the Welsh thalidomide can benefit from the only normative instrument that benefits them, Royal Decree 1851/2009, for access to early retirement by informing the INSS and the rest of the administrations with confidence who should receive this social benefit. Creating this unit would place Galicia in the vanguard of support for thalidomides in the state and would surely be seconded over time by the rest of the autonomous communities. For all this, the Galician Parliament, on behalf of the Greek people, declares its unanimous and solidarity with the victims of thalidomide in the Spanish State and, in particular, to the Avite association, for its tireless struggle for the victims of this drug in the State, for the historical debt the State has had with the affected persons and their families for sixty years. I hope to have the support of all groups to try to correct a historical injustice that condemned thousands of children to a life of dependence, without any help, and their parents and mothers, but basically their mothers, to a situation of tremendous psychological aggression, for they took the medication. I hope – I have already finished – the fair support of all groups, so that from Galicia we take the initiative of recognizing the disease of these people, their consequences, and giving them access both to economic aid and to the orthoprosthetic, medical and social aid they need. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u283	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. For the defence of your amendment, Socialist Parliamentary Group. Mrs. Hold on.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u284	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies. It is clear that our society owes its debt to the people affected by thalidomide, three thousand people all over Spain, although today it seems that only five people are alive, by the way, the only people worldwide who have not received any help or pension or specialized medical assistance or compensation. The Socialist Parliamentary Group today wishes to take advantage of this debate to acknowledge the work done by the Association of Victims of the Talidomide of Spain, but also, ladies and gentlemen, to acknowledge the commitment that a worker in this Parliament has to be affected by thalidomide. No doubt, thanks to them, it's what we're talking about today. By the way, it was that person who clearly explained to me that the most serious problem in this matter is that not even in Galicia or Spain are identified all the people affected; that many of them don't detect them, ladies and gentlemen, nor health or justice, but they locate others affected when they are being asked for alms in the streets, because some of them don't even know how to be affected. The Socialists are going to support this initiative, to which we tabled an amendment which seeks only to nuance some of the requests made by the proposed group, but which, if not accepted, will not prevent us from equally supporting the initial text. The nuances we put to your proposal, Mrs. Martínez, are in that we believe that the Government of the Union must also be involved in this matter, not only use the Welsh House to ask the state for things, but here we have the ability and autonomy to solve many of these problems, these shortcomings, and to address many of the claims that this association makes us, from here, from our government, from our Parliament and with our means, ladies and gentlemen. We have to get involved in this matter from the Government of the Union, both from a health point of view and from a legal and judicial point of view. We think that it might not be necessary to create a multidisciplinary medical unit, but rather to designate some of the existing ones to take care of detecting, identifying and following these patients; something similar, ladies and gentlemen, to what has already been done with other problems similar to this one. I remember what was done to those affected by rape oil, by setting an example. That this unit produces a common protocol for the care of all these people and that it creates a unique record to know exactly how many people are affected. As for the legal aspect, we think it would be necessary for all the people affected by thalidomide – they won't be much in Galicia, so what is requested is even easy to do, it's even easy to do, it's a matter of sensitivity, ethics, morals, from which we've checked throughout the morning that the People's Party and the People's Government has little of all that – they could count on free legal support and advice, with all they need to be able to claim their rights and also demand responsibilities, which there are. And in addition, we believe that since the Autonomic Administration it would have to be easier to process – to facilitate processing – in the public administration offices, to facilitate – it is quite simple – for those people who have already been diagnosed to get there and present that diagnosis, right?, and to facilitate the processing to request early arrivals and retirements for all of them, - I insist - once done the most difficult, gentlemen, that is to identify them all. And, of course, it seems to us that the Board, of course, should also address the Government of the State demanding things, demanding that it take the measures necessary for German pharmaceutical to compensate for the damage done on its day, because we cannot forget, ladies, that it did it to wisdom, for it continued to recommend and maintain a drug in the market after knowing it was harmful to people. We hope that our amendment will be taken into account, although – I insist – we also ratify our support. And from here, and taking advantage of this debate, we wish all the luck of the world to those people affected by thalidomide. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u285	Thank you, Mrs. Acuña. People's Parliamentary Group. Mr. Núñez Centeno.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u286	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies. I wanted to begin, Mrs Martínez, by congratulating you on the presentation of this initiative and thanking you for it. You and I do not usually or often agree on the background and on the forms of issues, but I have to say that at the bottom of this matter there is no doubt that the People's Parliamentary Group is absolutely in line with the demands of the people affected by the inadequate marketing of thalidomide in the last few years of the 1950s and the first sixties of the past century. An indignity – and I read textually – that, as Minister Alonso said at the Congress of Deputies would have to assume very especially the Grünenthal company, which did not warn of the serious effects that the administration of this medicine could cause on the fetus, and also the public administrations, who in those years did not know how to identify the adverse effects or control the massive administration of this medicine. Of course, all our recognition, our solidarity and our support for all the affected people and the Avite association, which represents them. Talidomide is a perfect example of a good drug that is not used properly. You've been talking here about your indications in those years: sedative, tranquilizing, hypnotic, non-barbitural and to soothe the nausea of pregnancy. According to the data available to the Ministry – which I consulted – the products containing thalidomide for these indications were removed from the register before January 22, 63, and so it appears in the register itself, although it could continue to be used probably at that time for leprosy. But today thalidomide represents the only hope for people affected by rare diseases, such as orphan medicine, which is called. Those pathologies that affect very few people and for which pharmacological research is absolutely scarce; a medicine that possesses immunomodulatory, anti-inflammatory and anti-anxiogenic properties, very useful in multiple myeloma, leprosy, Crohn's disease, AIDS virus cachexia. He is also researching the disease of Behçet, pruritus, sarcoidosis, lupus, rheumatoid arthritis, myasthenia severe and lateral sclerosis amyotrophic and for some tumor. That is why thalidomide can be a sad example on the subject of the prescription of new medicines or vaccines, where we always recommend caution from this parliamentary group. And what has the State Government done for those affected in recent years? In 2006 a study was carried out by the Ministry at the Carlos III Institute and 80 were evaluated. In the year 10, the Royal Decree 2006 was published which regulates the procedure for granting aid, and again evaluates 151 other persons; they were all studied by the most experienced specialist in Spain, who is at the Carlos III Institute. Support was also given to enable people affected to access retirement at a reduced age, in collaboration with the National Institute of Social Security. At Avite's request, Imserso incorporated an encoding for disability assessment, a specific code of malformative syndrome due to thalidomide. And they also had the support of the Prosecutor's Office in the demands of those affected, adhering to the complaint before the Supreme Court, and the Prosecutor's Office also defended the compensation of 200 million euros, understanding that the laboratory committed an attack on the health of humanity, also arguing that the prescription should be recorded from the decree of the year 10 or from the public petition for forgiveness that the company did in Germany in August 2012. We are absolutely clear that there is no remedy left but to take the ruling of the Supreme Court, but of course the People's Party and this parliamentary group do not share it. At the end of September, the Convergence Group at the Congress of Deputies called on Minister Alonso and presented the relevant motion. There has been a transaction with the Socialist Party's substitution amendments and the modification of the People's Party. This transaction was approved with a favourable vote of 319 Members and 8 abstentions. And that compromised motion is the one presenting this group as an amendment. We think that it completes and extends its proposal, Mrs Martínez, and it relies on the support of the affected group, with eight points to go to sum up, because I would not get five minutes: support for the affected persons; request for responsibilities and compensation in court judgment to the Grünenthal laboratory, as it has done in other countries; harmonise the compensation with the European Union; improve coordination between the State Administration and the autonomous communities; evaluate the implementation of the decree, addressing a fair acknowledgement of support in the claim for their rights; propose to the autonomous communities the exemption from entry into pharmacy, as is done in the case of the toxic syndrome; evaluate the creation of a Reference Diagnostic Cesure, also advancing in the application of the cross-border health directive, so that these people can go to the highest quality units in Europe; and conduct a pharmacovigilance study to assess the possibility of new problems or new affected new ones. We expect the acceptance of our amendment, because we think it completes its text. It was adopted almost unanimously in Congress, and we have helped, with this amendment, the visibility of this collective so damaged by the negligence and bad practices of a pharmaceutical company and public administration over 50 years ago. Of course, if they do not accept it, we will vote on point 1 and point 3, and we will reject point 2, because we believe that it does not seem operational to us that the creation of a reference unit in Galicia, on the edge of the agreement between communities, because of the shortage of specialists and the insufficient number of people affected so that that this start-up is beneficial to them. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u287	Thank you, Mr. Núñez Centeno. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u288	Good morning. Indeed, today we are debating here an initiative that is of justice. I will not agree with the People's Party Member who has just spoken on the subject of caution. We could ask for caution if it was a matter that had just arisen, but more than 50 years of suffering and invisibility of the problem seems to us to be sufficient to involve administrations, beyond judicial judgements. There are legal issues, but there are also political decisions, and in view of the fact that there are thousands of victims of thalidomide, this drug developed by German pharmaceutical Grünenthal, marketed in the Spanish state in the 1960s, drugs that were prescribed to hundreds of women management to theoretically eliminate the nausea caused by pregnancy, with the consequences of all known, lethally – they were already thousands of people who died – and with tremendous consequences of deformities and brute side effects. The German pharmacist continued to see the drug in the Spanish state several years after it detected the lethal effects. It was said in 61 that the medicine containing thalidomide caused severe malformations in the fetus and therefore consequences and sequelae for life, and death. And in the Spanish state it continued to market. And not only has it continued to be marketed, but there is no record that until 1985 there was a ministerial order that said that to prescribe thalidomide and the drugs that contained thalidomide had to be done with great caution; a medicine from which pharmaceuticals, at the two years of their marketing, detected these very serious causes, which removed it from the market in the vast majority of States, but which – I insist – in the Spanish state continued to trade. Therefore, the victims because they are victims of this company, which obviously was much more concerned about selling the product and getting benefits than because of its marketing and the effects it caused; victims of a pharmaceutical that is still denied today, continue to refuse to recognize and repair the damage caused to the victims of the Spanish State. It is necessary to hold the pharmaceutical company responsible for marketing the drug, not removing it from the Spanish market – when it has been removed from other markets – for forcing the victims to the calvary of a judicial process, for indecency; it is necessary to condemn the pharmaceutical industry for indecency. There must be demand knowing that it is not possible to repair the pain and damage committed and the suffering that the victims experience throughout their lives. I need you to pay for ruining their lives. But there are also responsibilities of the Spanish State, a Spanish State which in almost 50 years has done nothing, which has allowed itself to continue to be supplied, which has been silent in the face of the consequences, which has not protected the victims, which has not taken measures, which has not demanded the pharmaceutical and forced the victims to organize themselves and fight practically alone; organised victims, indeed, in Alvite, association to whom I wish to parabene, despite the fact that we are debating this initiative after the Supreme Court judgement, which determines that compensation does not come from the victims, not because it has not been demonstrated the harm caused, not because it has not been demonstrated the Calvary which I have subjected for their lives the consequences of having supplied this medicine, but because it has gone beyond the deadline. Of course at the BNG we disagree with this judgment, it will be legal, but we consider it not fair, not much less, and, as one affected said after he knew the sentence: my arms and my crazy legs did not prescribe, with which, of course, it should not be accepted that he had prescribed this matter. And to this we have to add that, of course, what is not to be received is the discrimination on the part of pharmaceuticals, which also means that there are States and governments that are far more powerful in demanding pharmaceuticals, and so we have pharmaceuticals if they have compensated the victims of this drug, of course in Germany, which have a vital pension, which have millions of payments; of course in the United Kingdom, Sweden, Portugal or Australia. Which means there's a totally different deal. Why are the victims of the Spanish State different? I'm afraid they're not different the victims, who are different the governments, who are more involved in the demands of responsibilities. With which, of course, this initiative that the BNG is going to support today seems to us a step forward, but not enough. It will not be enough until the victims of the Spanish State have at least the same recognition as the victims of the German State, at least that, because we consider the BNG that the victims of the Spanish State suffered only those of the German State. With more than 50 years of struggle, it seems to us enough that, if pharmaceuticals don't do what they have to do, the Spanish State is involved in a determined way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u289	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Parliamentary Group of the Left Galician Alternative. Mrs. Díaz. I'm sorry. Mr. Ron. Sorry, I've written "Mr. Díaz." Mr. Ron. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, but this was wrong here. Mr. Ron, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u290	Well, good morning to all and all. This initiative speaks to us about the history of a shame, a demonstration more than it meant in many respects that Franco-Cranch dictatorship, that long night of stone, exemplified through the thalidomide drug, through what has been called a humanitarian disaster, than it is an attack on health, a product that was prescribed during the first three months of pregnancy against nausea, but which since its inception, has been marketed between 1958 – officially – and 1963, but, as has been said here, in the Spanish state, in the Franco-Cranch dictatorship continued to be dispensed in the pharmacy until 1975 at least. That's why it's a risk when we see the 1960-1965 dates are set, it's a risk, because we know people, for example, as Manuel Bioque, who was born in 1959, or Josefina Mompeó, who was born in 1959, or people who were born after 1965, such as Sofia García, in 1970, or Esther Fernández, in 1966, to quote people who are publicly recognized, which are listed in public reports on the consequences of thalidomide. So it's not fair to set a reference date, like the one in Royal Decree 1006/2010, because that royal decree leaves people out before and after. And so from here on, what we have to do is to offer the guarantees and full coverage to all affected people of thalidomide, regardless of their date of birth, logically. Because, moreover, it is necessary to take into account the enormous pressures of the pharmaceutical company Grünenthal, which has taken place since the same day that researchers Klaus Knapp, who was Madridn, and Widuking Lenz discovered at the University Clinic in Hamburg that something didn't work, that something was wrong with this drug, and that after much research has given the cause, that was the thalidomide, the thalidomide ingest between day 37 and 50 of the management, and the enormous pressures that have been exerted since today, because since that time researchers have been under pressure from Grünenthal without stopping, and today we see as the Supreme Court's judgement, the last one – it has been said – gives him the reason on the subject of prescription. But for us there can be no prescription, and especially when since the Contergan Foundation, which is the name that received one of the drugs with thalidomide, commissioned a report, which is called Heildelberg's report, which very well defines that thalidomide also causes secondary damage of late appearance, and therefore makes no sense to separate the occurrence of late damage from its origin, because its origin is precisely the ingestion of the drug during management. So it doesn't make any sense for us to judge the Supreme Court, which all it does is to give reason to a powerful pharmacist. We understand that we have to work to repair this damage, terrible damage that has been done to all these people. It has already been said: there have been thousands, many have died, they are now a lot older people, and therefore we have to offer them from here, from the public, all guarantees for their rights to be repaired and for their rights to be recognized. Besides, we understand that Galicia has a lot to do in that regard. We have to make everything easier, because we're talking about people who have a series of sequels, and of course we can't just force them to move to Madrid anyway, can we? So we hope that it will be achieved, for the sake of repairing the memory of these people, that at the bottom is the memory of what happened on that long night of stone, for the sake of these people, of repair, that one can achieve unanimity of this initiative and that we can somehow end a suffering that should never have happened. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u291	Thank you. Group author of the non-law proposal. You have the floor to Mrs. Martínez García.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u292	First, I would like to begin by thanking the groups for their support for this initiative. It is an initiative that calls for justice, which demands justice for an act carried out in the dictatorship, which has demonstrated its great contempt for the popular classes of the state, but also an injustice that we all commit during the time of democracy, because we have never managed to give these people what they deserve in justice. While I appreciate the support of all groups, I must regret that the People's Party does not support the creation of a unit in Sergas that initiates at least the procedures of recognition and derives from that unity of the State, thus facilitating the attention and diagnosis of those people who suffer from a multi-system illness, for which it is often very difficult to travel to Madrid. I hope that this goes ahead, that this support from the People's Party will not remain in a vote here, but that they will start to work to claim from the state that it actually initiates all the measures that are collected, and that we do not expect the five hundred thalidomídic people who live in the state today – of the three thousand that were already dead five hundred – to die, we do not expect everyone to be without a right because of the inaction of all of us. Many thanks to everyone, and I hope that soon we will be able to celebrate it with the people affected, that justice be done and that they have the right to all the help they enjoy, for example, the most affected people. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u293	Mrs. Martínez, I'm sorry, are you making amends?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u294	With the amendments we made a transaction between the three groups; then we approach the table to the transaction. Voting of non-legislative proposals
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u295	Thank you. Well, then let's move on to the vote on non-law proposals. We shut the doors. We started with the first of the non-law proposals, that of the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, at the initiative of Mr. Jorquera and Mrs. Adán Villamarín, to which no amendments have been tabled. We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da María do Carme Adán Villamarín and D. Francisco Jesus Jorquera Caselas, on the reopening of the parliamentary commission of research to analyze and evaluate the economic and financial evolution of the old savings boxes and the causes and responsibilities of their current situation. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 30; votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u296	We voted in favour of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia on the initiative of Mrs Gallego Calvar, who said that she accepted the amendments to addendum, which would be an addition to points 3 and 4, and which did not accept the amendment to replace it. We therefore vote. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da María Carmen Gallego Calvar and three other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in relation to the network of children's schools managed through the Galego Consortium of Wellness. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 31 votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u297	We are voting on the proposal from the People's Parliamentary Group in Galicia at the initiative of Mr Tellado, who does not accept the amendments tabled. We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. Popular of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr. Miguel Ángel Tellado Filgueira and seven other Members, on the performances to be carried out by the Junta de Galicia so that the Holy Week continues to be an engine of Ferrolterra's tourist promotion, and of all Galicia, as an expression of popular culture, religious beliefs and Ferrol's own traditions. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 40; votes against, 31. The voting is positive. As a result, this non-law proposal is adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u298	We voted on the proposal by the People's Parliamentary Group of Galicia, at the initiative of Mrs Romero Fernández, to which no amendments have been tabled. We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. Popular of Galicia, at the initiative of Da Cristina Isabel Romero Fernández and seven other Members, on the realization by the Government of Galicia of the management necessary for the creation, promotion and dissemination of the tourist product Health tourism. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 40; votes against, 6; abstentions, 25. The voting is positive. As a result, this non-law proposal is adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u299	We voted in favour of the Parliamentary Group on Alternative Glaga de Left on the initiative of Mrs Díaz Pérez, who said that she did not accept the amendments tabled. We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. by Alternative Galaga de Left, at the initiative of Da Yolanda Díaz Pérez, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in connection with the convention signed in June 2000 and the installations of the Reganosa gas plant inside the Ferrol River. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 5; votes against, 40; abstentions, 25. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u300	We voted on the proposal by the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego at the initiative of Mrs Paz Franco, to which no amendments have been tabled. We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da María do Carme Adán Villamarín and Da María Teresca Paz Franco, on the action that must be carried out by the Government of Greece regarding the complaint of a woman referred to the president of the Provincial Parliament of Ourense. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 31 votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u301	We are voting on the proposal from the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia at the initiative of Mrs Blanco Rodríguez, who does not accept the amendments tabled. We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of Da Noela Blanco Rodríguez and two other Members, on the demands to be made by the Government of Greece to the Central Government and the European Union in relation to sustainable urban development programmes of the Feder Plan 2014-2020. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 19; votes against, 40; abstentions, 11. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u302	Finally, we are voting on the proposal from the Joint Parliamentary Group at the initiative of Mrs Martínez. Mrs. Martínez, are you going to make the deal?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u303	Yeah, it's pretty long, the groups already know her because I've passed her by, and I'll get her to the table.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u304	Well, then we vote on the transaction. Sorry, yeah? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] The vote will take place on points. If it's a transaction, yes you can vote for points. We vote point 1 and point 3, separately. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Let's vote first, then point 1, point 4 and point 5 and then the rest of the initiative. We vote point 1, point 4 and point 5. Vote for points 1, 4 and 5 of the proposed non-law G.P. Together, at the initiative of Da María Consuelo Martínez García, on the position of the Galician Parliament, the actions to be carried out by the German Government and the demands to be made by the Central Government in relation to the people affected by thalidomide. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 31 votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, these points of the non-law proposal are rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u305	And we vote on the rest of the initiative. We vote. Vote of the rest of the Proposal not G.P. law. Together, at the initiative of Da María Consuelo Martínez García, on the position of the Galician Parliament, the actions to be carried out by the German Government and the demands to be made by the Central Government in relation to the people affected by thalidomide. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 71. The voting is positive. This proposal is therefore adopted unanimously, not by law.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u306	We continue the development of the agenda with point 5 of interpellations. Interpellation of G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da María Carmen Acuña do Campo and two other Members, on the management of the Government of Galicia in the field of mental health
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u307	To formulate the inquiry you have the floor to Mrs. Acuña do Campo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u308	Thank you, President. Good day again, gentlemen. Good morning, Counselor. Well, today you could check, live and live, as Mr Feijóo's mind, the President of the Union – it is a pity that this debate has not remained – as it always has been, but today it has been evidenced as a mind in health care; that president who says he has already done five hospitals, more than 50 health centers, that he has not privatized anything in the public health system, and that in Vigo has done the largest infrastructure in the world in times of crisis and, in addition, a public hospital, right? a public hospital where thousands and thousands of surgeons are carried out, and also a liver transplant. So take advantage of your turn, Counselor, and tell us, please, when, how and what was the pathology of the patient to whom a kidney was transplanted in the new hospital – I fear private – of Vigo. Of liver, of liver, sorry. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] By the way, in Vigo, they don't do either liver or kidney, they're only made of cornea, as you must know well, but the president, if he knows it, he's lying too. Look, if you could check this today, yesterday you had to stay, in addition, very clear that Mr Feijóo used the crisis as an excuse to dismantle our public health, including mental health, and yet to the knowledge that the crisis caused an increase in the demand for consultations in that area. But it seems to you that they didn't care much, and in the fear of destroying the public system, because they applied cuts here too. Human resources cuts, Counsellor, with these massive and forced retirements, which generated numerous vacancies, which you then did not reject and which left Galicia far away from the average of psychiatrists per inhabitant that there are in other autonomous communities, in addition to making the increase that was foreseen in the Strategic Mental Health Plan for 2011. You also cut in hospital infrastructure. They shut down the most damaged hospitals – it's true: they were very damaged – but they left you, they abandoned these buildings, many of them emblematic; they abandoned them to vandalism, which is now dismantling them. Psychiatric hospitals such as those in Toén, Castro de Ribeiras do Lea (in Lugo), etc., etc., that have closed – I insist – without looking for a solution, for the building or for the patients who were in there, who have only moved them to homes of the third age, where they cannot receive the medical care and as specific as they need. Cuts also in acute beds and absolute lack of resources to treat minors for example. The mental health situation, Mr. Vázquez, is limited, is limited, because it was an historically forgotten area, to which I insist, as also applied the cuts on very clumsy care devices, because they have placed it on the edge of the disaster. In addition, you have cut into all devices, both in the most basic – mental health units, day hospitals, psychiatric hospitalization units, specific units such as psychogeriatry, or infant-juvenis units, or even in alcoholism treatment units and other units – as well as in complementary care devices. I was talking to you right now about the buildings of the abandoned psychiatric rehabilitation hospitals, but that's right, Counsellor, they left them without increasing the community support units, which could overcome those deficiencies. So today, I want to ask you, what are you going to do with mental health? But, above all, I want you to tell me what you're going to change, the differences that you're doing, if there's going to be. Look, if you're in touch with the Welsh mental health movement, with Feafes, with the Galician Mental Health Association, and if you're not, you should get on with it. It also does not contact the professionals and the professionals, the nurses specializing in mental health – as despised, Counsellor, with the People’s Party – with psychologists and clinical psychologists – so essential for these mental health units –. And by the way, speaking of these units, when will you incorporate the occupational therapists, so interesting – I insist – for that attention? I suggest you talk to all of them. But let's also talk to all those people who work on additive disorders, because look, Mr. Counsellor, consumption, even if you're committed to forgetting them, they're there and, besides, with the crisis, they're increasing. I remind you, moreover, Mr. Vázquez, that there are mental health care that is being provided outside the Sergas network, because within the network we do not facilitate them; and lend them associations, which you are strangulating with the cuts. They don't even let them do it. You talk to them too; talk to Ferrol, for example. In addition, I recommend that you read the statement that the Galego Mental Health Movement was making public on 10 October last, World Mental Health Day, where a very negative assessment was made on the management of mental health and the situation that this sector is living, both in the case of care, prevention or reintegration, and also in the case of socio-laboral integration of the most seriously affected people. This movement, which, as you should know, brought together more than 300 professionals, trade union organizations, professional schools, family organizations and users, scientific associations, among many others, ensured in this manifesto that the crisis is no longer a credible argument to justify what is happening. And I'm going to read to her textually, "After seven years with Feijóo on board, the situation is very worrisome, as all the indicators evolve worse. It has increased the incidence of psychic disorders, the rate of suicide, the use of psychopharmaceuticals, while the assistance resources continue to deteriorate and suffer cuts." They also assure you that you have neither planned mental health in these years nor developed programs for pathologies as prevalent as severe mental disorder, in addition to continuing to ignore WHO guidelines for the prevention of suicide, disregarding and preventing participation in professionals. And they also speak in that manifesto of incompetence and favoritism in selecting intermediate controls, together with interests shared with industries and the progressive privatization plan of mental health care. Mr. Vázquez, this is the situation. So our question is, what are you going to do to change it? Or maybe you think you're managing mental health well in Galicia? Tell us how and when she's planning on developing a strategic mental health plan. But it is only that, in addition, Mr. Counselor, of destroying how little we had, that which they have incorporated, that will allow me to tell you that you have no waste. Tell us about the Mastermind project – I think you mentioned it yesterday – that project for the treatment of teleassistive depression, privatized innovation and paid with European funds, a research project that Mrs. Mosquera – who was already well known – advertised as an aid project. What are we left with? Investigator? Assistant? I thought it was just a publicity project. Tell us what the professionals of this project think about, and tell us what they think about both clinical psychologists and psychologists as well as primary care personnel, who were the ones who had to do it. I understand they're machines that, in the case of depression, through the voice of the patient, define the risk of suicide, don't they?; I think it's something like that, Mr Vázquez. Well, is this project going on as planned? Do you consider the Government that can be useful for the treatment of depression? By the way, do you know that the suicides in Galicia between 2010 and 2014 have increased – and this is extremely serious, Counsellor – to 41%? In 2014 more than one suicide was produced in Galicia every day. What measures are they currently taking to avoid suicides in our environment? The same in all provinces? Because rates suffer from variations. Tell us: Do you agree with the provision of mental health professionals in different categories and levels of care? Tell us what paper they have for you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u309	End it, Mrs. Acuña.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u310	...–and finished– clinical psychologists and psychologists? Do you think they're useful? Where? For what? Don't you think the current allocation is clearly insufficient? Do you think about increasing it? How? And tell us, Mr. Vázquez, what was the reason not to extend...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u311	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u312	...the suicide prevention model we had in Ourense and it was working so well.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u313	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u314	I'm waiting for your answers. For now, nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u315	Thank you, Mrs. Acuña. Counsellor's response.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u316	Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mrs. Hold on. Man, I have one thing clear: I'm not coming here to destroy anything, I've tried to collaborate – as I said from the first day – in consolidating a health model that, of course, is greatly appreciated by citizenship. But if I have to tell you, I tell you, Your Honor, I can't share your diagnosis. The Sergas Strategy contemplated and contemplated specific actions in mental health; the facts and actions were there. You're talking about a mental health plan. The Galego Health Service is making significant progress in caring for patients with mental health needs in recent years. These are specific actions, not a plan on paper. I also remind you that comprehensive health care for psychological disorders and drug addictions is one of the priority areas in the Welsh Health Administration, as reflected in the review of the Health Priority Plan 2014-2016. 21.6% of the Greeks have ever experienced a mental disorder in their lives, and 7.4% in their last year. This data reveals that this is a problem with a broad impact, both on people with mental illness and their families. To address this situation, the Health Council and the Galego Health Service work on the following objectives: to improve the knowledge of disease in society through information activities aimed at citizenship to combat the stigma of mental illness, which unfortunately still exists; to improve the diagnosis through specific training for professionals, focusing especially on primary care; to improve scientific knowledge about this disease, supporting the development of research programs carried out from public bodies; to collaborate through the provision of assistance and the formalization of agreements with different entities and associations working in the mental health system, which do a great job; to reorganize the care, to improve the relocation of the patient through the closure of old psychiatric hospitals, to replace them with more modern and functional rehabilitation units, with an increase of places in centers, floors and residences – you will be aware of the famous counterpsychiatry, the improvement in patient's relocation through the closure of old mental hospitals, as long as possible health care centers, as we have been able to attend these times. Ladies and gentlemen, aware of the need to give priority to mental pathology of greater seriousness, in order to improve attention to severe mental disorder, over recent years has worked on the line of increasing and modernizing the assistance resources that respond to these pathologies. For this, the beds available from psychiatric hospitalization units were increased, underlining the increase in Vigo area in 2015, coincided with the opening of the Hospital Álvaro Cunqueiro and adding 10 beds more than there was. In the system set we moved from 212 beds in 2010 to 241 in 2015, 13.7% more. In addition, over the years, the facilities dedicated to rehabilitation and occupational programs have been relocated and modernized, as was the case with the transfer of the day-to-day hospital of psychiatry in Pontevedra and the improvement of facilities designed to accommodate patients entering the area of rehabilitation care at the Conxo Hospital, resulting in the former attached building and providing a new space for equipment suitable for care needs, which I also had the pleasure of visiting and seeing the great work they are doing at that facility. He prayed primarily for the deinstitutionalization of the mental illness through the closure – as we said – of the old psychiatric hospitals of Toén, Castro, moving the units to rehabilitation care, special care and residential care to Piñor and Caldas respectively. You were talking about buildings, we were talking about patients, right? I think that's where the health action center is. Together, we moved from 111 squares in psychiatric rehabilitation units in 2009 to 137 in 2015, an increase of 23.4%. As far as special care units are concerned, we spent from 50 to 105 in this same period, an increase of 110%. On the other hand, and in line with the indications of the European Mental Health Recommendations Network, different strategies have been carried out to enhance the mental health care of minors, which included in 2012 the creation of a childcare unit in the EOXI of Santiago, with 7 reference squares, for the special severity of psychiatric pathology incomes in children under 16 years of age throughout Galicia. The Autonomous Community also has 8 mental health care devices, all of which are functionally integrated into Sergas. The network has a total of 13 psychiatrists and 14 psychologists, a rate of 4.5% psychologists per 100,000 inhabitants under 15 years of age, among other staff. In particular, in the area of Santiago de Compostela, where the hospitalization unit is located, there are 3 psychiatrists and 3 psychologists for the care of the infant-juvenil population, in addition to weekly support for the care of children with behavioral problems in an education center. Assistance is based on a multidisciplinary approach and resource optimization. For attention to food behaviour disorders of greater severity and comorbidity there is the unit of food conduct disorders, reference for patients over 16 years of age throughout Galicia. Its facilities were also improved, moving in 2013 the unit of entry from the Psychiatric Hospital of Conxo to the Provincial Hospital, where external consultations and the day hospital are also located and can be addressed specifically and multidisciplinaryly by a team made up of professionals from criminology, nutrition and mental health. You also ask for suicide rates. It should be remembered that around 95% of suicides are estimated to have at least one psychiatric disorder. As a matter of fact, suicide is a complex act of multifactorial etiology that influences population, biological, psychological and social factors. In general, one cannot find a single cause. You know that the incidence in men is not the same as in women, and there is even an important difference when it comes to suicide and attempted suicide, which there are clear gender differences. Gross mortality rates per suicide that are sometimes used are not suitable for comparing different populations, time series, etc. It is necessary to use standardized rates per age, which in Galicia between 1975 and 2013 reached the highest value in 1993, 14.1%/1,000 inhabitants. The standardized rate of European population for recent years was 11.5, in 2009; 9.5, in 2010; 10.3, in 2011; 11.6, in 2012; 10.8, in 2013. In Galicia, since the 1980s, standardized rates have been reached equal or higher than in 2012; only in 1987, with 12.5; in 1988, with a 12.3; 93.14; 94, a 12; 95, a 12.4; 96, a 12; 98, an 11.6; and in 2003, an 11.6. According to the trend, in Galicia the standardized rate of suicides increased in the 1980s, decreasing in the early 1990s, and follows a slightly decreasing trend in the last decade. To conclude this first intervention, I would like to point out that, aware that mental health care has to be integral and that cognitive, psychosocial and labor rehabilitation is necessary, we have established agreements for this purpose with various non-profit entities, councils and patient associations, for drug addiction assistance agreements, with Fegamp and NGOs. We will target in 2016 close to EUR 8.2 million; 3.3 correspond to the agreement with Fegamp, almost 850,000 to socio-health and legal-social care programmes and 558,000 to alcoholism assistance programmes and other addictions. Nothing else for now. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u317	Thank you very much, Counselor. Replica. Mrs. Hold on.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u318	Thank you, President. Counselor, I haven't heard from you about Vigo's liver transplant, I don't know if you want to take them next shift. If I've heard data questioning the subject of suicide. Look, I'm the data I gave you are the ones that have passed me professionals, the ones who work with this. You told me that mental health is a priority. Well, my God, if it's a priority for you and it's like this, how will it be what's not a priority? I didn't hear him answer my questions either, maybe he didn't understand me, I didn't explain well and he didn't understand me. And he mustn't have understood what the Galego Mental Health Movement said in his manifesto, something far more dangerous, Counselor, much more serious. As one Member of this House says today we find that he is very attached to the mime, he is very dangerous, because that is what the sector tells him. Look, so you can understand me, see if we understand each other. As they say an example is worth more than a thousand words, I'm going to give you an example of how you find mental health where I know most, in my province, in Ourense, that province so curious. See if that province is curious that, in the face of the problem with Mr Baltar, those who understand ethics are running; however, the Prosecutor's Office is filing. Funny province, isn't it? Well, there – and I'm going to give you personal data – and both in psychiatry and in psychology. You know why? Because you've been retiring 6 ECA and not retiring since 2009. So the day-to-day hospital in the complex, in Chou, was left without a psychologist, this retired in 2013, of course it wasn't covered. The continuum team, care for patients with severe mental disorder who attends the capital and the surrounding areas, is infradodoted, and experts say that they lack at least one psychiatrist, one DUE and one assistant to be able to follow up on pluripathological chronics and avoid return. By the way, it wasn't much of a basic team of care continuity in my village, in Valdeorras, even though it was contemplated at the time of the Bipartite, just as it was contemplated at that time that TAC which since 2009 was bided arrived in 2015, because, of course, there was a priority, that was privatizing it. We don't have a psychogeria unit either, which was suppressed last summer in one of the oldest provinces in Europe, Counsellor, a unit that had been operating for almost fourteen years and was also caring for the residences of the third age. Beds are missing in the acute unit and there's a cut in nursing. And they carry, Counselor – that's the best – nine different heads of service since 2009, nine different heads of service, after numerous resignations and retirements. Of course, no integration between primary and hospital. Now, after listening to you, I don't know if it's going to be that level too, what you're going to have to deal with is mental illness, right? Because you're telling us that you're going to train the primary doctors; you appreciate the training, it's always very good, but I don't know if we're going to have to take care of that. Look, besides, you're not helping anything to that integration that's been breaking down the territorial allocation of mental health units since the summer. As in the rest of Galicia, Counselor, attention to children is witness. Do you know how much they count there to care for children and children with mental illness? With a psychologist and, in addition, part-time. You might seem very resolute about this child-to-child unit with 7 beds here in the capital and which you have to serve all over the province, but the reality is that they have a little bit of a psychologist to be treated. They're trembling by the UCA, Counsellor, yes, by attention to drug dependence, which functionally depends on you, but which is still paying for the Town Hall – or at least until now, we'll see from here forward – through the agreement with the Fegamp. And tell me, Counselor, what you're doing in Ourense and the rest of Galicia to follow all those chronically. We can agree on a lot of things about obsolete psychiatric residences and those lifelong incomes, we can agree very much; but you have told me one thing: of all those who went out that way, that is to say, moving into a third-year-old residence, follow them? Do you know what circumstances all those patients are in, for example in Ourense, after they've closed Toén? They have organic diseases, disabilities – in addition to mental illnesses – and sometimes they are in very special legal situations.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u319	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u320	Do you know -- I insist -- what's happening to these people? For when is a proper psychological endowment, Mr. Counsellor, to provide assurances to the victims of gender-based violence and their sons and daughters?, which, by the way, in our province and around the Parliament, are very, very lacking.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u321	End it, Mrs. Acuña. Finish it, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u322	I insist: – ended – when is the Strategic Plan of Mental Health and when is the renewal of the plan to meet the additive behaviors? Look, this is the reality...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u323	No, it's over, it's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u324	...of mental health. I hope you have an answer, and...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u325	End it, Mrs. Acuña.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u326	...on everything, measures to improve it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u327	Mrs. Hold on, look at the clock, a minute and a half more. Please. Thank you. That's it, eh! [[Applause]] Shut up, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u328	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Mrs. Acuña, are you sure you're not taking any anxiolytics? Because I see her very nervous, very nervous. I see her very nervous. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Look, can I talk? Let's see... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u329	I agree... excuse me for a moment. Excuse me, Counselor. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I never share in this House any allusions to whether a person takes a treatment or does not take a treatment, nor do I allow – nor will I allow it – to make an allusion to people related to mental health. Therefore, Counselor, I, if you may, that comment about the anxiolytics... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I'm sorry, let me talk to you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u330	No, no.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u331	I'm asking you to pull him out and I know the advisor will take him out.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u332	Mrs. Acuña, I apologize if you understood it that way...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u333	Thank you, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u334	...but of course my intention was simply a comment out of context. Not me, of course. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u335	Quiet, quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u336	I can talk, can I? Can I talk? Thank you. Once I've done the improvements I'm referring to in my first intervention, since then the Welsh Health Administration is pursuing its objective of maximizing mental health within the planning and common care strategy for the whole of Sergas. In addition to what was stated in the previous intervention, I would like to remind you that the review of the 2014-2016 Health Priority Plan collects a specific line of action with depression. We're reviewing the integral care process of depression after piloting in the Coruña area, building on this interconsultation through videoconference between primary care doctors and the psychiatric service of nine centers. That's what you meant about the Mastermind. Mrs. Acuña, I have to... If not... I was talking about Mastermind, to say it's not a research issue, it's a European project that's doing in eleven countries, besides other autonomous communities. So I think it's not about any research, but about adapting reality to new technologies to improve the attention of citizens. He said primary care is now going to have to take mental health. Primary care, as we say from the outset, is very important, very important in all the care of patients, and therefore we want to make it clear that she is involved in the care of patients in mental health. And logically, to tell you that, in principle, it's a subject of training, which is being trained to primary care doctors, but also is aware of the real situation of these people. Having repeated what he said about the suicide problem, we are aware of the need to work on a protocol to unify the approach of suicide consultations in the Sergas field. Taking into account the recommendations of the World Health Organization's latest clinical practice guides, mental health devices should promote the training and identification of high-risk patients of suicide – a complex word – by providing tools for primary care doctors – as we said earlier – by designing emergency care circuits and homogenizing their attention on mental health devices. The intensive intervention programme in the suicide of Ourense could be, along with others that are developing in our Community, a good starting point, which you also commented on. Since the development of this program in 2008, effectiveness has been evaluated on an occasion over the period from April 2009 to June 2010. It was found that during the evaluation period the rate of recurrence of suicides, recurrence time, as well as the number of suicides, was lower than the control group. There was no evidence of a lower mortality rate unfortunately or a decrease in the need for hospital admission or referral to emergency services of the most serious patients or of the suicidal behaviours consumed. In any case, note the fact that, in view of the social relevance in the health of suicide and taking into account the recommendations of the expert panels, intervention with the suicide patient is carried out as a matter of priority, both in mental health devices as well as in the coordination of emergency services. He has also worked on specific actions in collaboration with other advisories. Together with the Education Council, in 2014 the protocol of consensus on children's lack of care and hyperactivity and adolescence was developed in the fields of education and health. The presence of mental health was strengthened in the social health framework plan approved in 2013. Agreements were signed with the Labour and Welfare Council for the relocation of stabilized patients. Residential staff were trained to improve knowledge and management of serious mental disorders, a total of 31 courses of serious mental disorder. Finally, I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that the Galego Health Service is making important progress in caring for patients with mental health needs in order to complete health integration...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u337	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u338	...of mental health and the addictions of priority areas of the Galician Health Administration, together with our professionals. And to tell you that, exactly, when you talk about the replacement rates, I announced yesterday that precisely the OPE 2016 covers at least seven hundred squarees to try to clear...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u339	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u340	...deficiency in places that could exist. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u341	Thank you, Counselor. Da Ana Belén's interrogation Pontón Mondelo, from G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the beaches of state-owned highways in Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u342	Mrs. Pontón has the floor to make an inquiry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u343	Good afternoon. Counsellor, about a month ago in this same plenary session we discussed a proposed law of the Galician Nationalist Block requesting the transfer of the competence of AP-9 to Galician Union, an initiative which, from our point of view, makes many things manifest, but basically today I wanted to point out two. The first points to the inaction or loss of roles of the Galician Union on a matter that is relevant to our country's mobility, and it is how it affects this state-wide infrastructure, such as AP-9, mobility, equality and road safety. We are, of course, faced with an infrastructure that has a very important economic and social impact – we can say that it is one of the most relevant in the country – and what we have seen is like the Government of Mr.Núñez Feijóo, the only thing he does in relation to AP-9 are statements to the media, but in what strictly refers to the scope of government and to the competition he might have of pressure in this matter, you clearly leave functions. But also the debate we had here last month, about a month ago, puts out a perverse game that practices the People's Party in matters that have to do with the competences of the state. This evil, hypocritical or cynical game, politically, means they defend one thing in Galicia and another in Madrid. Because I want to remind you, Counselor, that in May 2015 – I imagine you would be aware – on May 26, 2015, my colleague at the Congress of Rosana Pérez defended a bill requiring Congress to approve the transfer to Galicia. And what happened in that debate, Counselor? For the People's Party voted against, including the Members and the Members elected by the electoral districts of Galicia, which, as we see, are acting against the general interest of our country and are not in Madrid defending the Greeks and the Greeks, but are clearly defending a state policy that is discriminatory to our country. They were there assuming that by defending the privileges of the concessionaires and the privileges that are around the many benefits that the concessionaires have, both the AP-9 and the AP-53. We understand, from the BNG, that having competence is useful, that it would be much better to manage this infrastructure made from Galicia than the management that is historically being done from the state, which I clearly assumed is abusive tolls, to allow the deterioration and loss of employment in the field of these companies and to condemn us to pay fees at the maximums that are legally established. So you will understand that today we have seen here – say – with this legislation that has just ended in the state and we say that regrettably in the fundamental affairs that have to do with the infrastructures of this country and on the part of the State the policy that has practised the Board of Galicia was clearly that of subordination and leaving functions in the defence of interests. I'm sure you'll come here and tell me, as you're repeating, that you also wanted the transfer. And I'm asking you a very specific question, which I hope you can answer, and is it: in which Joint Commission has formally requested the Board of Galicia to transfer AP-9? Tell me, because I think it's very important. How many times did he do it, how many times did he meet and how he went and what did he do during all this legislation? But we say that the AP-9 debate doesn't end with the debate on transfer, because that's going to be a matter that has gone a long way, as we're going to see, and at this point, the Greeks and the Greeks continue to pay some peas that are absolutely abusive, both as far as AP-9 and AP-53 are concerned. And in this matter we also have to say that we regret that the Secretary-General for Infrastructure a few days ago in a committee in this Parliament had not made a single criticism of the unfair rise in the peas that the People's Party has made. And also during these years, Counselor, we haven't listened to you with any criticism to Minister Ana Pastor for rising during the economic crisis the rates we paid the Greeks and the Greeks. And this was made to know that we have a clearly inflated fee, a fee that turns AP-9 and AP-53 into inaccessible to a majority in our country, that it has very low wages, wages that are below 1,000 euros, and that if you had to use AP-9 or AP-53 daily, for example, to travel to its work, they would be devoting about 30% of its available income only in fees. And while this reality was happening, you were looking somewhere else and you weren't able to negotiate, not even criticising a policy on fees that is clearly a discriminatory policy. We understand, therefore, that we have a very serious problem with what our country's tariffs mean. We already said, we have the lowest pensions and wages while we have the highest rates in the whole state. We are the Greeks – this is a privilege that we owe the People's Party – very privileged, because, in addition, we are going to pay these peas at the maximums that are legally established, seventy-five years by paying fares on the highway. You see, of the twenty-six highways that are in the entire concessional regime state, there are only two that have concessions for seventy-five years, and we have the privilege of being in Galicia. Actually, Counselor, I don't know what this looks like to you. And we also say it's absolutely insulting that since the ministry you're telling us that AP-9 isn't amortized. Consider: AP-9, according to the data from the dealership itself, which has published on its website, has invested in its construction and maintenance around 1,428 million euros. Do you know how much you've collected only in fees, and we're not counting on this figure – which is also clear – the public aid you receive from AP-9? Then around 2,500 million euros, with updated data in July 2015. And they still tell us that AP-9 isn't amortized. Well, we understand that it would be important to make a substantial change in the tariff policy that is being applied in our country. Because it is done: the AP-9 represents 7.6% of the total that collect the concession highways across the State. We also see how he keeps a very low level of workers and workers. According to data from the Ministry itself in that report that, even if it is late every year, it makes the Ministry on the situation of highways tollage, we see that in the case of Audasa the number of employees per kilometer is 1.18, while the average of the rest of the highways is 1.24. We also saw with absolute astonishment how, while Mr. Rajoy said that the belt, the Welsh and the Germans had to be tightened, just like the rest of the state's citizens had to tighten their belt by an economic crisis, since 2008 the rates have increased substantially, and not only increased the rates, they also increased the VAT we paid for the fees, which you went up from 18 to 21%. This suggested that Audasa since 2008 had profits worth 275 million euros, and that while you were defending a policy of cutting workers' rights, the members of the Audasa Board of Directors would raise their wages every year, thanks to which you continued to maintain many benefits that pay the Welsh and the Welsh of your pockets. So, we, Counselor, are in disagreement with that official version that transfers to the Galician Union that AP-9 is well managed, that AP-9 has no problem, and absolutely silent in the face of abusive acts and a situation in which we believe that we must directly mark the responsibility of the People's Party and the current President of the Government. So today we want to know if you're going to do something about this matter, if you're really going to break up with that silence and that complicity in everything that refers to AP-9 or you're going to do something different. Because if you do, the People's Party in this pre-election campaign used budgets as well as propaganda. And one of the messages he released is that there's an unprecedented tax discount, which will release around 65 million euros. Look, if we were to release only AP-9, in Galicia we would be having a double effect that that star action of Feijóo; we would free much more public resources than with that tax discount that Mr Feijóo proposes us. And we also want to ask you what it looks like to you or if you think it's fair – and it's part of that policy, isn't it?, so balanced that you have the state – that in that plan that you've done experimentally downsizing taxes for trucks because in Galicia there were only ten miles bonus and that, as you've published in the press, this plan that's just finished in November and that's just finished with the month of November...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u344	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u345	...leaves Galicia without any bonus kilometers. I haven't heard anything about this Galician board thing, although you know there's a very important problem there. I think you also have responsibilities on transport, and the transport sector is very unhappy with a discriminatory pricing policy that in practice our products are paying taxes so that they can be transported. We're waiting for something else today to tell us that Minister Anna Pastor was a great minister, because we believe exactly the opposite.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u346	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Response from the Infrastructure & Living Advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u347	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, gentlemen. Well, as you just pointed out, AP-53 and AP-9 are, of course, state-owned highways. Therefore, the Ministry of Development is responsible for all management actions with regard to the concession, including the analysis of the viability of its rescue. But despite not being the competence of the Galician Union, I can assure you and I do not share with you what it says of inactive politics. Of course, the active policy of the Galician Union, because, of course, we show interest, great concern for the operation of AP-9. We are aware that the AP-53 not only involves the connection between Santiago and Ourense, it also changes mobility in the central part of Galicia to have a high-performance exit to the Meseta. And for its part, A-9, of course, we are also aware that it communicates the Atlantic facade, connects five of the seven major cities and is therefore the vertebrate axis of the territory where 60% of the Greeks live. And that's why, from the Autonomic Executive, of course, I urge you to pursue an active policy, an active policy, in different directions, and I already tell you that, on the one hand, demanding insistently and repeatedly and continuing personally to Audasa, which, of course, must provide a quality service and must guarantee a quality service; I tell you and I urge you, even personally, on many and repeated occasions. And, Your Honor, we have always defended before the Ministry of Development the need to carry out an AP-9 reformulation, and that is why in February 2010, in the bilateral Commission held in February 2010, – I urge you – I have proposed this matter. The fact is that the Spanish Government replied that it was not the expected formula. And in 2014, we again asked Junta for the transfer of AP-9, and we already told her here the allegations made to the Infrastructure, Transport and Housing Plan, which I don't know you made the allegations to the Infrastructure and Housing Plan. Specifically, we have proposed to analyze the desirability of the change of ownership and also – I do not know whether your party, your parliamentary group, sorry – has proposed a specific tariff optimization programme. This is what we allege to the Ministry of Development Infrastructure Plan, and also in April this same year we ask for transfers and also to optimize fees in the allegations that we submit to the State Road Law. Of course, I think there's an interest, a disposition and an active policy of the Galician Union in relation to AP-9. And on this line, the parliamentary group that supports the Government of Greece accepted the proposal for the law of the transfer of AP-9 that you presented; by the way, something that, despite the attempts of the People's Party, was not possible when this House had a majority in 2007; in 2007, and when it was the majority of this other House, it was not achieved this time. So since the Galician Union we will continue to work to achieve AP-9's competences. We believe that it's possible legally, we think it's logical, because we can directly monitor the service and the operation. The state – so I understand – has twenty-six AP-9, right?, because it has twenty-six highways of similar characteristics. For us, for me, for Galicia, there's only one AP-9, and therefore we'll dump ourselves to have a much better service. We continue to demand good services from highway dealers, quality service, since citizens have the right, of course, that highways have optimal conditions, because it's a service they also pay. And that's why we didn't go beyond the problems that occurred in summer periods in AP-9. From the first moment we asked Audasa – I insist that personally, if you know it, I am sure that if you know it – measures to avoid problems in the areas of toll when necessary, exceptional measures for exceptional situations, because it is not acceptable for the jams that have occurred on certain dates, and the Ministry was sensitive, Minister Ana Pastor of course it was sensitive – it is very sensitive to Galicia, and there are the data – and it has reinforced the inspection work both ordinary and extraordinary, controls that have allowed closer follow-up of the situation and adoption, of measures to avoid these exceptional situations that have occurred. We're talking about staff reinforcement in the cashier's cabins, as well as various performances in the already executed beaches, such as the Salnes, running in Sigüeiro, and also projected, which will certainly be done at the beach of Teo. Decisions all of them that allowed the summer past to diminish, not to say that they hardly existed, problems of retentions of previous years. Of course we don't get satisfied. We will continue to work, and we will continue to pay attention, vigilantes, so that the service of AP-9 and AP-53 will, of course, be of quality. With regard to the pilot plan you move from Puxeiros, it is an initiative that the Ministry has put forward to encourage the use of highways by heavy vehicles, by means of a fee bonus, with double benefit: heavy vehicles that can transport with bonuses by highways and for the rest of the users who go on the conventional route, because it improves road safety. Of course, we support this initiative, because it was supposed to improve; also, that it had been implemented with consensus, so I personally asked the Secretary of State for it, and it was also a measure with consensus. In any case, it was already known that it was a pilot test, an experimental plan, and it must be the Ministry who should evaluate its operation with data. And, Your Honor, I don't think it is necessary to remember that the central government – you know – is competent in the beaches, and that's why this government has called for a pricing optimization policy to achieve equal opportunities in mobility in Galicia. So, as I told you, we transferred these allegations to the Infrastructure Plan in 2014. They're not enough yet, I think there were indeed principles to advance the bonuses, which I'm sure you also know. He knows that through the royal decree it was this central government and it was Minister Ana Pastor who established bonuses for the first time in AP-9, specifically 100% of the amount of fares traveled and back to the travels carried out in light vehicle on the same working day, using dynamic peaxe, teleweaxe, on the itineraries Pontevedra-Vigo, Pontevedra-O Morrazo, Pontevedra-Vilaboa and Rande-Vigo. And it's also this government and also the central government that's allowing the Morrazo-Vigo itineraries and also The Coruña-Barcala to be free. We've invested more than 45 million euros since the Galician Union so that we don't have to pay these fees. Of course, at Junta we're making a big effort, and of course it's not true what you say, that the beaches here in Galicia are the most expensive. In the case of highways AG-57 and AG-55, they are the cheapest in Spain, they are 35% cheaper than AP-9. This government is what put bonuses on the usual routes, and they didn't increase in the fiscal year 2015, they froze for the second time, and in 2016 they won't even freeze, we're going further and down, a reduction between 2% and 3% on autonomic roads. So, this government, this joint, was the first and only one that set up tariff bonuses for users' walks. This Union is the first and only one that will reduce the rates of AG-55 and AG-57 in 2016. And this adds the extension of bonuses for four more years that apply on autonomic roads, bonuses for these usual users to pay less for their fees. So in summary – I'm done, ladies and gentlemen – these are the lines of work in which the Galician Union is focusing its efforts. In the case of autonomous motorways, establishing bonuses, freezing rates, bonuses and, even in 2016, reducing fees. And on highways of state ownership, active politics, politics asking for tariff optimization and also keeping watch over us constantly in front of the concessionaires. I'm done. So this is the policy of this very active Council of Galicia and this government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u348	Thank you, Counselor. Replica roll. Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u349	Thank you. I believe, Mr. President, that in this very plenary we understand that one can be here in silence without anything happening, with the advisers it is already the practice of what is done, I suppose there will be no problem because in my five minutes it is also a woman of my silences. In any case, Counsellor, to me it seems to me that, when we have a government that is not serious, Galicia has such a serious situation as it has at present, and today its answer denotes, firstly, a lack of rigour on the very big reality and a lack of seriousness and commitment to the defense of the rights of the Greeks and the Greeks that is very worrying. Look, a government does not rule – I told it – on the basis of statements in the media, but when it governs there are a number of instruments that are established, for example, to request transfers. If I am not mistaken, the request for transfers is not made with claims to a plan, the request for transfers must be materialised in the Joint Committee. I have here – well, if you are able to attend the debate –, Counsellor, I have here, Counsellor, here I have official documentation, official documentation of the Ministry, information on the agreements of this legislation and meetings of the Joint Commission. [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] We are amazed and amazed that between the years 2010, 12 and 2015 there was no meeting of the Joint Transfer Commission; that is, in this legislation at no time has been requested the transfer of AP-9 or any other transfer. This is the documentation that is hung on the Ministry page. So, Counsellor, what are you talking about when you tell us they're constantly claiming competence? It's just a lie. In this legislation they never claimed these powers. And so it goes, with a government that looks elsewhere and that even comes here telling us that there's no problem, because the Greek Government is already acting, it's going to lower the rates, do it. This measure that you just took out, don't you, so propagandaally, in relation to the reduction of the rates in AG-55 and AG-57, what will it consist of? Look at this: in the Carballo-A Coruña frame, a motorcycle, a microbus or a van will cost 0.05 euros less. Is this the big discount you offer in relation to the fees? If, indeed, with the rise of the hydrocarbon tax that approved the Government of the People's Party, circulating through these routes was already much more expensive. What are we talking about? Do you worry or not that counsellor Ana Pastor, who comes here to defend you, not the interests of the Greeks and the Greeks, has raised our rights? Does it seem normal to you that since 2008 AP-9's rates have increased by 50%? Do you believe that this is a solidarity, fair policy, and that really responds to the needs we have in our country, or is it a policy that goes against Galicia, which is thinking about the interests of the concessionaire, but what for nothing are you thinking of our general interests? The truth is, Counselor, I think we have to be more serious and more serious. You come here to tell us that you have no opinion, you have no opinion about the fact that the Ministry, first in that pilot truck plan, has only increased 10 kilometres from all of Galicia's highways. I mean, we have a highway like AP-9, with 219 kilometers, and the Ministry's big bet for road safety and for eliminating heavy traffic from secondary roads in Galicia was 10 kilometers? You don't have anything to say? You don't have any information or data about what's going on in Galicia once this experimental plan is over, and you don't have any opinion to give. Really, Counselor, I have to tell you that you do a job loss that is intolerable, because you're not defending the general interest, you're not defending the interests of the Greeks and the Greeks, that we pay less fees, because we're paying and paying for a highway that has been financed by public money, and therefore all this is a scam to this country. He knows that fees are a serious problem, a serious problem because they're limiting access to safer routes based on resources. You know an important part of the population can't access those highways...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u350	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u351	...and you also know that an important part of our economy, everything that has to do with the mobility of commodities, is also conditioned by that highway. And you just come here and tell us everything's okay. Well, that's not true. And it's more, one last question, Counselor. That you, as an adviser to the Galician Union, seem normal to you that the only discount policy in AP-9 is restricted to a very small part, that it is not confined to the whole highway and that it is absolutely ridiculous in relation to what other parts of the state have, seems to you to be a great success, I think it demonstrates to what extent political subordination that has them blind in reality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u352	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Shut up. Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u353	Thank you, President. Well, ma'am, as I said in my first speech, with regard to the bilateral Commission, it was in February 2010 where this bilateral commission was just over a year ago. It is of course your opinion, but the Spanish Government has told us that it was not this, the Bilateral Commission, the formula that you say is the formula, and of course the Spanish Government does not say that it is the formula that is planned for the Joint Transfer Commission. Of course you said it's a seventy-five year concession. It's true that he had two extensions of the concession, but one of them was made by his government partner, Tourin. You're aware that these enlargements have soon enabled the motorway of Ferrol and the border to be completed. I guess what you think is that these are unnecessary performances and that you shouldn't get to AP-9 or Ferrol or the border. [[Applause]] And by the way, also talking about investments, of course that Minister Ana Pastor, that her sensitivity to Galicia is more than proven. While at the BNG you are applying for 8% budgets for Galicia, it was this central government that has allocated between 12% and 14% of investments each year. Therefore, more commitment to Galicia I think there is no. [[Applause]] And also, no doubt, as I said in my first intervention, since AP-9 is an essential communication axis, connects five of Galicia's major cities, communicates 60% of the population, twenty-two thousand vehicles daily, but I can tell you something you must have forgotten in your intervention. It was the Minister Anne Pastor who allowed us to have today, which made an alternative to AP-9, which is the Atlantic axis, and the Atlantic axis on April 18, the Atlantic axis is in service, just as the high-speed route between Santiago and Ourense, an alternative also to AP-53. Suppose a fundamental advance in mobility – for you I see no –, 150 kilometers between Vigo and La Coruña in an hour, take the Vigo-Santiago route in 50 minutes, of course, a real meter on the surface, which brings us closer to that Galicia which is a unique city. [[Murmurs.]] And we're talking about an axis of communication that's proving its effectiveness, but you don't seem to mind that in just over seven months, 1.8 million passengers in the Atlantic axis. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, we are not, of course, fully satisfied with the management of AP-9. But, of course, it is fair to acknowledge that in recent times progress has been made and there has been a lot of desire for improvement. We're talking about important investments in this key infrastructure, important investments by the Government of the State; investments that are not alien to the demands of citizens, nor the demands of the Galician Union. He spoke before the improvements that have been made and that have practically prevented the repetition of these locks in the summer. You have to add other investments to which you don't refer, and I'm going to refer, investments of 14 million euros in the reinforcement of the AP-9 firm, 60 new kilometers in Santiago and Pontevedra. Also investments to increase AP-9 capacity in both Vigo and Santiago, 250 million euros. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Of course, actions that will favor fluidity will favor displacement, road safety and therefore quality of life, and also something very important, which is the development of industrial fabric in our community. Your Honor, may I remind you that you do not have the exclusive defense of Galicia's interests. Of course, we also defend Galician interests. And we will continue to work – as I said in my first intervention the People's Party already asked in 2007 – in the transfer of AP-9. [[Applause]] We will continue to work because we are convinced that if AP-9 were from the Galician Union it would enable more direct, effective and closer management to the real needs and interests of the Greeks, and there are also background to this request. And, of course, in the pricing policy for all of us, we would like them to be free, but the responsibility of public officials is, of course, to be responsible for public resources. I'm done. I don't have time. I insist that, of course, this was the only first government to implement bonuses and also to freeze rates for the second time, and in 2016 it would decrease them. But you don't seem to like us to lower our rates in AG-55 and AG-57.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u354	Thank you, Counselor. We suspended the session until 6:30. [[The session is suspended at 3:6 p.m. and resumed at 4:30 p.m.]] Da Yolanda Díaz Pérez and Da Eva Solla Fernández, from G.P. of the Galga de Left alternative on the policy envisaged by the Social Policy Council in the field of personnel and the quality of assistance of public social services
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u355	To formulate the inquiry you have the floor to Mrs. Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u356	Good afternoon, everyone. Welcome, Counselor. Most of all, the workers who are represented by a very relevant collective of public workers who are or have been working these years, especially since the People's Party governs, in very poor conditions – if I may – the following. I, Counselor, have a chance to go back to you this second time, and I would like to, since we are in electoral season, to start with your election program. "What Spain needs," it's entitled like this. You've got a cut, Counselor, which says you're going to defend life-compatible work. This is your show and I'm going to tell you about it is those workers who, by the action of the People's Party, have a job that is incompatible with life. I work incompatible with life! I know you've had the opportunity to meet with the workers, with the union representatives, but I also know that today, which is December 2nd, we're still as we were. And I say we continue as we were because you know the situation in which these people work that only in the province of Coruña exceeds 2,000, Counselor, because of the cuts that you are beginning to practice, despite your story. The story of the People's Party is that we're coming out of the crisis, the story of the People's Party is that Galicia is growing, the story of the People's Party is that we're doing very well. But that account doesn't match the cuts they're still practicing. There are two fundamental cuts that you practice in the field of staff. One that has to do with Law 1/2012, of February 29, which is a massive, cross-sectional attack, to all the rights that the workers and public workers had achieved. They cover a lot of subjects, and, as you know, the consummation on the part of the councillor of Fairy – absent – but you see that you are also familiar with the maintenance of this article, because the maintenance of the suspension of Article 19 of the V Collective Staff Convention of the Single Administration. I say in order that it has to do with the provision of public services on the part of, above all, workers in this sector. But it is also true that there is another facet, perhaps even more cruel, which is the facet of the cuts that have to do with the provision of public services in these welfare centers, that we say they reach too sensitive subjects, of which we are going to talk, as is obvious, in this interpellation. Counsellor, as you know – I'll tell you again, because I've already asked a question on this issue – the workers are working on conditions that are being rejected by justice, firstly, and, secondly, by absolutely outrageous conditions. You know perfectly well that they're developing shifts of work. This is like a dysfunction in the public administration, let's say it's closer – it's a hybrid – to the Sergas than to the strict public administration itself. They work for twenty-four hours, so they work shifts and they work 365 days a year. I know that you know this right now, but I also know that you know that workers are developing their jobs for seven consecutive days and are even resting, at most, right now two Sundays. We don't say holidays, because for example we're going to have a specific case that's next week, that we have two holidays, one coincides with Sunday, but we have two holidays, and obviously these workers are going to be discriminated against negatively because of the conditions they have in their jobs. You don't have to tell him, Counsellor, that we have from this registered group, in the course of article 9, all the casualties that are caused by common illness, or by occupational accidents, or by occupational disease, are claimed by this staff. I have to say that this voicer wasn't who after three years of getting them. And we ask you to do this because we are aware that there are centers in which - almost all of them - markedly, and we can point out that of Oleiros, indeed, the workers end up sick, Mr. Counsellor. It's impossible, it's not that we're talking about compatibility life with work anymore, they're not able to perform these functions without getting sick. We're talking about a situation that can cause alarm, you know there's a lot of complaints in the Labour Inspectorate, but also about the deficiencies or precariousness in the service itself. There are no performance protocols, there is no control and even no organization in the work itself. There are permanent casualties that are not covered, Counselor. I know we're now entering the Christmas season; I myself was forbidden to visit centers at the Christmas time with the excuse that it was Christmas, but I certainly know it was just so we wouldn't check on the site that these casualties there, of course, allowed us to see how they lend themselves. And I say this because you know perfectly well that multidisciplinary teams that work normally in the morning, and you stay in the conditions where I suppose you know perfectly how they are, and that without any doubt, we could sometimes have serious situations where nothing happens because we don't know why. It's true that serious things have happened, serious things. For example, I visited all the centers, as you know, small centers that have an emergency and are working an assistant and have to assist that person, because there are certain risks, of course, that they are not satisfied today. I also know, Counselor, and I know that you know, that they're working, and that's why they're inferring, without the proper working materials. I know perfectly well that they just bid the beds. It's true they just realized that together with the beds, they had to bid the mattresses, and I know they just bid the mattresses. But we also know, Counsellor, of that material that workers are demanding and that is vital in order to be able to move, for example, in the assisted residence of Oleiros, people who are actually assisted, who cannot move, who weigh more than 100 kilograms and who need cranes and absolutely essential material in order to be able to provide this service with proper quality. The truth is that until today there is no tendering of any of these materials, so workers continue to perform their duties in these conditions, which I insist are regrettable and that one day we will have a serious problem. It is also true that clippings perceive them, as I said, users and users. We're on a cut, even though the People's Party denies it, in what you'll know if they're restricting the leathers to the assisted people, to the people who need them, only the four, Counsellor. And these are true data. If you don't trust my word, you have the workers upstairs so they can point it at you. But it's not just those cuts, it's that they're those clippings, for example, on monitors, which allow them to be absolutely helpless in the afternoons of hundreds and hundreds of users, of users who are entitled to decent treatment, Mr. Counsellor; or we're talking about that they can't do any other kind of tasks, even exiting from the cuts they've practiced in the transport they used to have. Or we're talking, and I want to show you, Counsellor, about the situations in which this center is located... this center is from 2003, it's the CAPD of the Coruña, this is a center that you see... rains and you have to see... workers have to put it that way. These photos are nothing. You can go there and check it out. The images speak for themselves. I don't know if this is about third-world public services, but it looks like we're going that way. Or also, Counselor, the situation of the CAPD of the Coruña. Since we had this sinister, that's how it is, Counselor. This is indecent, if I may have the expression in this House. It's just that one day something serious is going to happen. It's because you know they're passing through here people with enormous difficulties, that is, we're materially depriving them of fundamental rights. This is real, not that it's a picture or a movie, it's real. I'm not telling you how the ramp is, Counselor, because this was when it broke up and this is what it is today. Well, we think this situation, of course, is deplorable. We are aware that he has just arrived and we are aware that he had a meeting with the staff representatives yesterday, Counsellor. But we're also aware that we're going to end up in a price again. I'm saying this because we'd like you to explain to us why you don't give the instructions as to what the posters should be, that they had to be fixed before December in writing, Counsellor. I say this because you have to explain to us loudly and clearly whether you are going to ensure, in order to have a new social policy, that we are derogating from this suspension of Article 19, or if they do not tell us in writing what the conditions are going to be in which people who support a fundamental service in the 21st century are going to work, and who, I insist, are going to be sick. Therefore, Counsellor, we have, as you know, raised seven questions in the inquiry. The first of these is whether you're going to negotiate – we're talking about negotiating, we're not talking about what Mrs Mato has done until now – the cartels for this year. There's only a few days left...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u357	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u358	–I'm going to finish it. The second is that it will comply with the commitment of the new material, particularly the cranes, of those who have no knowledge to bid. As well as assessing that loss of quality of care derived, rightly, from that lack of precise material. If you commit this advice – now that you are new, to see if policies change as well – to cover all of the casualties, that we don't live what we normally live in these centers. Law 1/2012 will also be repealed and article 19 of the V Collective Convention will remain in force. And also, with regard to the sorry state of the center that I just showed you in images, if you are, you can commit yourself here today to tell us what you're going to do.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u359	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u360	And I'm done, there's only one question left in writing, and I hope you answer me. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u361	Thank you, Mrs. Díaz. Response from the Social Policy Adviser.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u362	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Mrs Díaz, just a month ago she was in this Parliament to answer a question from your group on the same issue. So I'm not going to repeat the arguments I used at that time, because we're in the process of moving forward on the issues that were precisely on that question a month ago, with a clear will: the Government's willingness to work with the workers' hands to improve the working conditions of men and women who serve in this office, and who have the peculiarity of doing so according to the shift system. We're talking about 365-day services, residential care services to people who need it most, and it's therefore essential to work through shifts. A few rounds on which it has been said here, on numerous occasions, that there are three judgments of the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia. Three judgments that come to say that only in the case of the province of Coruña, not in the four provinces, there was no negotiation; for the case of the province of Coruña. What he doesn't say is that there is no individual prejudice caused. It's true, and so we have to say, that there was a faulty negotiation in a territorial headship, but it's also true that the prejudices caused are not determined. Of course, the Government's intention is to have permanent negotiation processes with the corporate committees. This council, almost two months ago, had numerous meetings with union representatives of the council. Not only that, but the counselor himself had the opportunity to speak directly to workers who need an improvement in their working conditions; therefore, we are working intensively on that objective, which must be a goal of all. In particular, tomorrow there is a meeting with the various business committees to collect their claims in the turnover process of 2006, and we will therefore comply with the essential negotiating procedure that has to exist for the establishment of the turns. In the case of the Committee of the Coruña, the committee itself made some doubts and, as a result of these doubts, even yesterday there was a meeting for its clarification; meetings that are fundamental before, even from a negotiation procedure. We like this new formula, successive processes to try to reach agreements, not just formal negotiation. So, I think the will to negotiate is one thing that is beyond doubt, the will to negotiate which I hope will lead us all to be able to improve working conditions. Tell me about the equipment, I think it's also a fundamental issue with regard to working conditions: the first is the shifts, I say, that they're being negotiated; the second is the equipment, crane equipment, of what I was talking about, vital, very important, 49 cranes lifting to eleven centers, charged on November 30 for an amount of EUR 92,154.11. The deadline for delivery for fifteen days, therefore, I hope and wish all this material to be delivered perfectly before Christmas. Provision of beds, 415 electric beds, 287 sanitary facilities and 24 shower pads for a total of 19 centres; contract signed on 3 November 2015, amounting to 387,275,78 euros. This material is already delivered in the 19 centers; the signature is a month less than one day from the contract. Third, as you said, mattresses and pillows, 923 new sanitary mattresses and 1,322 pillows, which I hope everything is weighed before it ends this year for an amount of 209,798 euros. I also want to say that the process of dialogue with the workers is not limited to the shifts, but the whole investment of material that we're going to make next year's instructions, the technical staff of the council, that is to be consensual with the workers themselves. With regard to the coverage of absences, we must try to increase it by two ways: the route of increase of staff and the way of replacements, with a very important criterion as well, which is to cover the ratio of staff, which fortunately in the public centers that have a high quality is largely exceeded, but we must always overcome that ratio, and also considering that some centres, at least, are in their coverage ratio below the usual. Indeed, you taught me, Mrs. Díaz, a photograph of the CAPD of the Crown. I would like to inform you, at parliamentary headquarters, that we have already started the processing of the construction contract file for the demolition of building G and the reconstruction of the road of access demolished to the care complex for people with disabilities in Coruña. An act that will involve an investment of all the Greeks of 479,850 euros, which is expected to be executed from the 2016 budgets. I want to tell you that this photograph corresponds to the real state of the building and that that's why the decision to start recruitment is taken and the decision to make early spending is taken to make it a reality next year. So, all the provision of dialogue with the workers of the centres, to improve their working conditions, meeting the Workers' Statute, the number of hours these employees have to perform, and the appropriate staff ratios for the care of people living in these centres. We're working on improving the working conditions of the workers and workers in the centres of this council, but we're working, too, to improve the living conditions and comfort of these centres, because the important thing is that both the people working in them and their users enjoy the best conditions in a work and social environment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u363	Thank you very much, Counselor. Mrs. Díaz's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u364	Thank you very much, Counselor. I wanted to make some point about what you're talking about. Without a doubt, the center, the CAPD of the Crown, you speak of the bidding for demolition, which I understand is very urgent, but you must understand that the situation on the other side of the centre, in which it rains, which is the new part, requires equally urgent actions, Counsellor. This is like this, it's the new part, that is, you have the budget for this and, of course, it's a matter of care. It seems very good to us that they demolish the other part, and when we're done we'll congratulate you on that, because we've been seven years of the People's Party's Government that we've been unable to understand why you haven't done it, but we believe that the state of the new part, of course, the conditions shouldn't be these. We would also like, Counselor, to discuss some of the issues that we haven't had time to raise before, but which have to do with the cuts and the bad situations, for example the laundry service. I suppose you know what's going on in Oleiros' own residence, where the conditions in summer are absolutely unhealthy; that is, if you've had a complaint, or if you characterise the work inspection there for health reasons, because we would also have problems. They're absolutely unbearable, Counselor, and at the same time it rains. Or even the conditions in which we work in that laundry and in others, in which we can see how without any kind of caution, Counselor, and being people who are some of them sick, because they're manipulating all those clothes, I insist, in difficult conditions. So, of course, we do ask him to be interested in these issues, because they're pretty severe. As far as the deadlines of the materials are concerned, which we knew they had been biddened, and as far as the beds are concerned and so on, we're also going to follow up how they are incorporating themselves, and the fundamental thing, as you know, are the cranes, without any doubt, to improve the conditions of the staff. But if I may, Counsellor, we would certainly like to see what the negotiation sequence is going to be. We are satisfied that you say you are willing to negotiate, but as this negotiation will be; speaking of course, when we know that yesterday you talked about the past of the instructions, but that even tomorrow you will have a meeting to make claims, and we have first-hand knowledge – and they are here – that they do not have the document they need to make those claims in writing. In this I have to say it's a difference that you've had in the past, because in previous times they didn't negotiate, but at least they were given in writing the instructions or the proposal that the employer made then regarding their work shifts. So what we ask you to do is to comply with that legal obligation, which is to give up your conditions in writing so that they, in writing as well as how things should be done, can make all sorts of allegations. We know perfectly well that you made a proposal yesterday, but that proposal is absolutely indeterminate; therefore, what we want are guarantees of maximums – of course, the derogation from the law is Article 19 – but also that if it is not maximums that are met with the fundamental rights of workers; that is, they do not live what they are living, because they are unequal, Counsellor; they work on holidays and they are not compensated for that reason. We insist, this is a hybrid in the public administration, but they have rights exactly like the rest of the workers. And also in the clippings, Counselor. I told him about leather, but I could tell him about food and other things. We'd like you to pronounce on this, this is also real, Counselor, we don't bring things that aren't contrasted here. And they also need, if they can, the casualties, if they're going to be sure they're covered, because what I also told you about the assistance of a single assistant who stays on a plant with a lot of residents, because they're not the conditions, of course, enforceable for this service provision. For our band nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u365	Thank you, Mrs. Díaz. Mr. Counsellor's reply. Shut up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u366	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Mrs. Díaz, it seems to me from your account that there's a negotiation process going on, I think. At the meeting, at the meeting, at the meeting... I'm telling you, there were three judgments in which this negotiation process was not accredited. I have committed myself to this Parliament is that there would be a negotiation process, and we have held several meetings with that negotiation process. What they inform me and what I can move, therefore, is that the posters have been delivered in writing. I've already told you that's what they're informing me, several days ago. Tomorrow there is another meeting, if not delivered in writing, will be delivered in writing to complete this negotiation procedure. But, I tell you, negotiation is in progress and so what I hope is progress in that negotiation, because after winning the best that will be won in the shifts, the goal of the Government is to have new improvements in the working conditions of the public workers; but there are advances, Mrs. Díaz, the 2016 rounds at most will be five consecutive days. You know perfectly well, because you were also gathered with the representatives of the workers, who used to be seven days old. This advisor does not seem reasonable seven-day shifts, and the shifts delivered are less than five days. In negotiations we have to go step by step, and therefore I hope that in that new process we can continue to move forward, but suddenly achieving all the goals is very complicated. With regard to the material subject, I tell you that in the last two months we have activated three procedures of more than EUR 600,000. So we started an important phase of acquisition of material in residences, which we needed a lot, and I think we have a challenge for the year that has just been working with the workers, with the management of the centers, etc., to keep improving the material, and so on. With regard to the center of the Coruña, I have already told you that we have already started the procedure: more than 400,000 euros that we have already activated from 2016 as an early cost record, because we believe it is urgent. Actually, bring me some other picture from some area; well, that's just like everything else, Mrs Díaz, you don't want us to set up all the social policy centers and all the working conditions and everything, but I think we're from the creation of the board giving a very important boost to many essential actions. Then he talked to me about leather and other material. I personally asked several directors for reports on some improved material, and I'm looking forward to getting this matter going. So, I'm telling you, the fundamental object of the question was negotiation. Negotiation is under way, the material is already being received in the centers. And with regard to the center of the Coruña, what I hope and wish is that, throughout 2016, its conditions greatly improve with that investment more than EUR 400,000 than I've talked about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u367	Thank you, Counselor. We move on to agenda item 7, with questions from the Government. Question by José Santiago Freire Abeijón and eight other Members of the G.P. Most popular of Galicia, on the proceedings that will take place from the publication in the Official Journal of Galicia of the bidding of the Sanitation Plan of the River of Pontevedra
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u368	To put the question, Mr. Moreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u369	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, Counselor. In this Parliament, on 25 February this year, a non-legislative proposal was adopted by this parliamentary group through which the Galician Union was urged to deepen in the study of the sanitation and purification systems of the Pontevedra River, involving the municipalities of Pontevedra, Marín, Poio and Vilaboa, to facilitate and provide all the information and documentation necessary to know the current state of the network and, depending on its outcome, to determine the specific needs of action in each municipal term concerned. It must also be said that this proposal was adopted with the only vote in favour of this parliamentary group, not being supported by the rest of the parliamentary groups, and we have recently seen that the Territorial Environment and Planning Council has just published in the Official Journal of Galicia the invitation to tender for the Pontevedra River Sanitation Plan, in which EUR 1.5 million will be invested. According to the German Government, this document will collect and plan the necessary actions to improve the functioning of the systems and the quality of the waters of the Pontevedra River. The aim of this plan will be – according to the progress made in recent days – to trace the roadmap that will determine the steps to be taken by the various administrations to optimize the operation of the sanitation system of the municipalities that pour into the stream of Pontevedra, and thus improve the state of this stream. In view of the importance of this measure, I would like to ask you the following question, Counsellor: what are the steps that will be taken, from the publication of the invitation to tender in the DOG, for the development of this plan? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u370	Thank you, Mr. Moreira. You're being answered by the Territorial Environment and Planning Advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u371	Thank you, Vice President. Your Honor, good afternoon. The Union has one of its priority commitments to clean up our rivers and works day by day to improve the quality of our waters. This is a goal that is not now, it's a goal that we've been developing since 2009. In fact, it was about EUR 1 billion that have invested in the sanitation of our waters since then. If you can imagine, it was the greatest investment effort in this issue of the history of our autonomy, and it obviously included a special attention to our laughter. Already this same year – in 2016 – in the assumptions we are about to discuss right now, we will allocate about EUR 40 million to investments in sanitation infrastructures in our rivers, of which EUR 24.6 million will be new sanitation infrastructures that are already included in the hydrological plan. Those 24.6 million euros account for 146 percent more of the investment that was made last year in this matter, and they will be centered, Your Honor, in the river Pontevedra, obviously, but also in the creek of Burgo, Arousa and Ferrol. We will also invest 15 million euros, of course, to finalize another type of sanitation investment that is already underway. As you well pointed out in your question, we have now begun the processing of a local sanitation plan for the whole Pontevedra stream, which has an budget of 1.5 million euros for the drafting of the entire Pontevedra stream sanitation plan project, which is already being auctioned and published in the Official Journal of Galicia. The preparation of this document will take 36 months. However, as they determine what the actions to be carried out, which are the most priority actions, we will not have to wait for the end of this plan to start its execution. This sanitation plan will analyse, will allow planning, will allow projecting actions to be developed not only by the Galician Union. but by all administrations of the Pontevedra River, giving priority to those that are urgent. So we did, and we've already had experience in two laughs: the Burgo laugh, in the Coruña, and the Arousa laugh, which has already motivated remarkable improvements in water quality, so we consider that the local sanitation plan is the optimal and necessary instrument in the Pontevedra stream and in the rivers of Galicia. Once we know the current situation and what its impact on water quality, this will enable us to prioritize the set of actions to carry them forward. There will be eight different phases which I will not expose to not lengthen the answer, but ultimately, Your Honor, we are taking the right steps to achieve an effective and efficient management of the water and, of course, that also ensure the sanitation of the river of Pontevedra. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u372	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mr. Moreira.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u373	Thank you, Counselor. It is clear that there are serious problems in the Pontevedra River, one of them is the current debugger, which cannot adequately treat waste water, since its treatments are designed to receive higher concentrations of contamination but with lower flow rates. It's not like that, unfortunately. The neighbouring municipalities are sending large amounts of water, which includes rain, and that means the debugger doesn't have enough. Therefore, we are convinced that in that plan there will also be an improvement and an extension, in your case, of this debugger. On the other hand, we are convinced that this action by the Council of Galicia cannot be done without the collaboration of the municipalities, since the task of maintaining and renewing the network is not a matter for the Union, but for local authorities. So we trust the municipalities' collaboration with the Galician Union. We know of the good disposition of the Board and of the contacts that have been made, but I do not want to let a case go like that of the Pontevedra Council, which since the Board assumed in 2006 the exploitation of the debugger has entered more than 25 million euros, with which that administration – the council – could have renewed today more than 100 kilometers of urban collectors. Something similar to the Poio Town Hall, which has nowhere to pour and is sending part of these residual waters to the pleasureres debugger. In any case, Counsellor, I also ask you whether you can give us some indication of the timings that are being handled, that funds are managed for this investment of the sanitation plan, that management or collaborations are being obtained from the councils and that advantages will qualitatively assume the approval of this plan. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u374	Thank you, Mr. Moreira. Shut up. Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u375	Thank you very much. Your Honor, the quality of the water masses in our community has improved through the investment of more than EUR 1 billion that has developed with the latest hydrological plan, which has made our water quality now classified by technicians – 70% of them – as good quality and in good state. Obviously, 70% is not 100 percent, but the new hydrological plan has already been approved, and with a commitment for 2016 and next to over 600 million euros, it aims to ensure that 100 percent of the water in our community has good quality. Obviously, this will be the work to be done in the stream of Pontevedra, which is a wager of the Greek Government and which, of course, is one of the great challenges to develop. This row has a sensitive zone declaration, given its strategic importance in relation to the activities that are developed in it, and this declaration has higher quality requirements paired in its water. That's what we want to respond to with these specific actions designed, and that's why there's a roadmap, that there's a sanitation plan, a document that's going to be used to safely diagnose the problems of the stream. It is a plan that is necessary to study the functioning of the sanitation systems of all the municipalities of the river, and above all it is our roadmap to take the different administrations and thus optimize the operation of the sanitation system. It will also allow us to have an inventory of all the points of dumping in the river, which today does not exist. As he said, his bid was published last October, and now what's left is the adjudication of this project and the drafting of this plan, which will be in the first quarter of 2016, and the development of the plan, which will have 36 months. However, it is important for me to stress that the most priority actions will begin as they have been done, and this will allow us to shorten deadlines and act swiftly. And also the goal is that the water regeneration process progresses and does not paralyze during the drafting of the plan. The last step will be the application of the plan and the development of all the actions envisaged. In fact, for this particular laugh, there are EUR 40 million committed throughout the hydrological plan to be able to solve the sanitation problems of the Pontevedra river and the Lérez basin. Throughout the process and design of the plan we seek – as you said, lordship – the involvement of all the municipalities of the river, and regular meetings were held with them – with the municipalities of Marín, Pontevedra, Poio and Vilaboa – and also with the seafood industry. And so we will continue to do so, as progress is being made in drafting the plan. We count on the predisposition of all of them; they all showed their interest in collaborating in the drafting of the plan as well. We have always been aware that this collaboration is necessary on the part of all the administrations involved. It is important to remember that the Union with the State is the administration that has invested most in improving the sanitation and purification of the municipalities of Marin, Poio and Pontevedra, not now, in 2016, the budget is planned for work in the Marin municipality. This will start the works for the improvement of the general collector and the pump station in Lameira, an action that counts in the 2016 budget with 4 million euros. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u376	Thank you, Counselor. Question by Da María Monserrat Prado Cores and Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo, from G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the request for an extension of the grant of the factory of Ence in the district of Pontevedra
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u377	To put the question, you have the floor to Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u378	Good afternoon, Counselor. The Galician Nationalist Bloc has been sued for active and passive exercise by the German Government of its exclusive powers in spatial planning, and has issued unfavorable report to the extension of the "Ence" in the Pontevedra River. We demand that the unanimous agreement of this Parliament be put into effect, therefore an agreement voted by the People's Party, where they committed themselves to the transfer of the Encen factory from the current location in Lourizán. We demand that the Government of the People's Party fulfill its promises, first promises in the opposition, and here I make documentary contribution number 1: an extract from the electoral program of the People's Party that is already known in this House, but that I do not resist to present again, where the People's Party clearly says that in seeking to make productive activity compatible with the quality of the environment, and continue the policy adopted in relation to the situation of the company Ence in the river of Pontevedra, Ence abandons its current placement. And to meet your government agreements. I also deliver documental test number 2, where your predecessor in office, Mr. Hernández, insists that Ence should leave the river in 2018. He could provide a lot more documentary evidence regarding the position of the People's Party Government. We asked you to act as a German Government, not to act as an administrative delegation of the Government of Madrid. We told him that they would not let themselves go; that they would not allow the company to which they put the rules; that they would not act as colonized and exercise the German Government, because of course you should be the Greek Government. We also asked them to crash at the table, to have some dignity and to tell the company that there is a government here, because they also have skills to do so. We have already explained here, by active and passive, that they have powers which grant them the Statute of autonomy and judgments of the Constitutional Court, powers which are not repealed, which are in force. Despite that, it seems evident that the People's Party has carried out all kinds of actions, all kinds of efforts, in the totally opposite direction, to consolidate the Ence in the Pontevedra River. Ence is a company that was bought in 2011 at a balance price because it was due to expiry date, and the expiry date was 2018. I had a balance price because it was a downturn, a bargain, precisely by that expiration date. In this context, there is information, from which the media have echoed, indicating that your Government, Mrs Mato, has issued a favourable environmental report determining for the granting of the extension of Ence in Lourizán. Is it true you issued that report? What is the content of that report, Mrs Mato?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u379	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Response from the Territorial Environment and Planning Adviser.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u380	Thank you very much, Vice President. Ask Mrs Prado that we act as the German Government and, of course, that is what we have done, fulfilling our powers and, of course, as the Government too, fulfilling the laws. He knows that the processing of any request for an extension of a concession for the occupation of public maritime-terrestrial domain entails a strict procedure which is fixed by a law, and, of course, like all the laws that are in force, they must be complied with. The 2013 Cost Act provides for Article 2 that, in cases of uses intended for industries subject to integrated environmental authorisation, such as Ence, there must be a prior report from the environmental body of the Autonomous Community; as you well know, this environmental body is this Environmental Council. Article 177 of the General Border Regulation also states that, when it comes to an installation which already has an environmental authorisation, the report – and this is important here – will be limited not to whether it is favourable or unfavorable, positive or negative, but the Regulation states that it will be limited to determining the effects and setting the conditions which are compatible with the content of the authorisation. This is how it is in Pontevedra's laugh and, of course, also in the whole Spanish state. It's more of an administrative procedure than, without doubt, must be carried out. And I'm telling you -- it's clearer -- the environmental report has to say whether the factory's activity is adjusted or not adjusted to environmental authorization, not more or less. This is the case for the Ence, with a plant – as you well know – the plant of Lourizán, which has an integrated environmental authorization, which is the year 2008. It is a full authorization granted by the previous Government. The stage of the process at which we find ourselves begins in the summer of 2015, with the second request to the State, by Ence, to resume the proceedings for the extension of its activity beyond 2018. Following this request, and in compliance with this law and this regulation of which I have just spoken, the Ministry of the Environment requests a report on compliance with environmental requirements last September 25th to June; no favourable or unfavourable report on environmental compliance requirements. The Board's report is decisive but non-binding; the final decision on the extension is unique and exclusively to the State Administration. In response to the request of this ministry, the Government of Greece sent a report to the Secretariat of the Environment State on 13 November. This document is based on unique and purely technical criteria to ensure strict compliance with what the environmental authorisation granted in 2008 by the previous Government. In the report, it is noted that it respects the regulated and approved parameters in the environmental authorisation that is in force, and, of course,...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u381	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u382	...you mustn't look at anything else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u383	Thank you, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u384	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u385	Replica. Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u386	Well, it's obvious that the People's Party will be complicit, it'll be responsible, for the stay of Ence in Lourizán for another 75 years. Because look at one thing, Mrs. Mato, I told you before, you, your Government, have powers to act. He has the powers given him under Article 48 and 49 of the Constitution; he has the powers given him under Article 27 of the Statute of Self-Government and he has the powers ratified by the Judgment of the Constitutional Court; we have told him on many occasions. But, far from exercising them, you'd rather be company accomplices and hiding behind a legality that, by the way, is the legality of which you've been endowed; a legality that you've been modifying so that the company had instruments to be able to perpetuate itself in the stream of Pontevedra. I mean, if legality could be quite more powerful for that permanence, because it turns out you're changing it. They change a law on the back that they didn't oppose, which they theoretically sold as if it was going to solve the problems of the coastal cores. The problems of the nuclei of the coast of our neighbours and neighbours are not solved, but the theme of the Ence is solved. The truth is, it's awesome! At the BNG we deeply regret that you continue to perpetuate a company that destroys Pontevedra's river, a company that has installed franchise and that you have every intention of keeping it that way. It's obvious that corruption is more than just putting your hand in the box. Corruption is to use the DOG, use the reports, to facilitate the negotiation of friends, is to use the stage of the Bernabeu stadium... Mrs. Mato, I always have to fuck you, so here I take the fool out of an ex-Minister – Mrs. Tocino – this month in Santiago Bernabeu, sitting behind Mariano Rajoy, who I remember is a member of the board of directors of Ence. Casualties of life!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u387	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u388	So, the People's Party...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u389	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u390	...one more time, acting in the service of Ence...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u391	Thank you. [[Mrs. Prado Cores speaks words that are not perceived.]] Thank you, Mrs. Prado. [[Applause]] Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Shut up. Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u392	I didn't know that once we left politics, we had to ask permission to go to football, but from now on we'll ask permission to go to football. [[Applause]] Beyond that, of course, the exercise of the powers that the Statute gives it and that it has our autonomy is what the Government of Galicia is developing strictly. [[Applause]] And those powers, which give us the Statute, which in no way say they release us from compliance with the laws. I already know that nationalism – specifically, for example, Catalan nationalism – likes to escape from compliance with the laws, but, of course, not the Government of the Council of Galicia, and deals specifically with all the environmental regulations that exist with strict and strict compliance with the law that exists in this case. Norms might like it or not, but to legislate, Your Honor, it's not an act of corruption; to legislate is the power that Parliament gives to governments and which guarantees security in this matter. If you ever had the chance to get to the government, you could make laws, and then we'll see if you call it corruption by making a law. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] In the meantime, as long as they don't reach the Government, what is clear is that this Union will abide by the laws of the State Government and, of course, the laws of the Galician Union. I remind you that, indeed, Ence has obtained a concession in Lourizan for many years now, and since then things have changed a lot; environmental assistance has also changed a lot and improved law after law, authorization after authorization. All the updates were made precisely to be more restrictive and more environmental protectionist, and all the European directives transposed to the state, and even to the legislation of the community, go precisely that way. With our performance we comply – I repeat – with the laws that you believe can be breached when you want to, and of course that is not so. The Law on the Back and the Rules of Procedure allow the Government to request the Environment Council, in this case, to make a strict compliance report on an environmental authorisation. And I'm telling you again, integrated environmental authorization is an instrument that enables an industry for certain actions. That instrument – which is a legal instrument – granted it by the previous Government, the Government in which its political formation was an absolutely conscious part of what was being authorized in that environmental authorization. The document that came out of this council this past month is a document that is strictly limited to saying whether it complies with what the environmental authorization says – I repeat again – signed by its Government when its formation was in government, and it says nothing else. It doesn't say whether you like it or whether you don't like it, whether it's favorable or not; what it says is whether you agree with emissions to the atmosphere, if you agree to sound pressure, if you agree to the discharge limits.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u393	Thank you, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u394	In short, Your Honor, this Government will always abide by the laws.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u395	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u396	Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u397	Thank you, Counselor. Question by Mr Miguel Ángeldo Filgueira and seven other Members of the G.P. Popular of Galicia, on the evaluation of the Galician Union of future opportunities which the establishment of the gas hub may suppose for the economy of the region of Ferrolterra
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u398	To put this question, Mr Tellado has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u399	Thank you, Mr. President. Counselor, good afternoon. This morning we attended in this House of Parliament in Galicia in the debate of a non-legislative motion by the Left-wing Galician Alternative Group in which the dismantling of Reganosa's gas plant was literally requested. Direct jobs and indirect jobs that depend on that company are of no benefit to the group that proposed this initiative. That's why when this group says in this House they're worried about unemployment, we just have to say we don't believe them. It's a false concern, a concern, our view, set. [[Murmurs.]] They want to dismantle the gas plant and they want to dismantle the territory of Ferrolterra, because they're against the gas plant, they're against the thermal power plant of the Bridges, they're against the train to the outside port, they're against the marine windmill, they're against and they want to paralyze the sanitation of the Ferrol stream, they're against it too, and they want to close the Naron cemetery. Finally, they want to dismantle the territory of Ferrolterra. We, Counsellor, propose in this House, in this Parliament, precisely the opposite: that the Ferrol River be a strategic enclave for gas planning. And why? Because we want to be a reference in energy planning, in gas planning in our country; because the gas plant generates workload for the repair sector of Navantia Ferrol, that's why many gas tankers are repaired, and today Navantia Repairs has full occupation; because the gas plant is fundamental to the combined cycles, for example, of Endesa in the Bridges, and to provide competitiveness for the entire Galician industry. That's why we defend the gas plant. I, Counselor, would not dare go back to my city, to the county of Ferrolterra, if today in this chamber I had come here to defend the closure of a company in my district. Allah is All-Embracing, All-Embracing, We, of course, are never going to make those political positions. We work in the opposite direction, we defend the expansion of the capacity of the regasifier of the Ferrol River and we defend the constitution of the liquefied natural gas hub of the Ferrol River; a project in which the gas plant of Reganosa participates, the University of Santiago, the Harbour Authority of Ferrol-San Cibrao, the public company Navantia Ferrol and, like not, the Union of Galicia. A gas hub that will allow fuel to be supplied to gas-driven ships and that will undoubtedly open up new opportunities for the district of Ferrolterra and its economy. Given the relevance that the People's Party of Galicia gives, we grant, to the gas hub, we want to know, Counsellor, as the Government of Galicia assesses the opportunities that this project entails for Ferrolterra and, in general, for the economy of all Galicia. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u400	Thank you, Mr. Tellado. Response from the economic, employment and industry advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u401	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr Tellado, first of all, logically, thanks to the opportunity given to this Government to explain a project that we understand is strategic for Galicia, which is actually developing a LNG logistics hub that is part of the industrial policies of this Government, oriented mainly not only to the fixing of industrial fabric but also to the process of industrial diversification. In this case, logically the Ferrol River has a very important role, because this diversification is driving it from the naval sector to other sectors, such as marine wind, offshore wind, and in this case, indeed, the GNL hub. We understand that this is an opportunity and that Ferrol has all the elements to set off on a LNG bet as a clean fuel for shipping. We understand that Ferrol has all these elements, because they know it's one of the seventeen regasifying elements in all of Europe; in Spain we have six, one of them in Ferrol. In addition, we count on a yard that is a world referencer in repairing this type of boat. We have a competitive auxiliary industry also worldwide, capable of providing value for projects that can be developed in the wake of this hub. And we have a well-known operator, with extensive LNG handling and unloading, like Reganosa. So we are actually in a position to develop this project, because we have all the infrastructure. And proof of that is this project of the GNL hub in the northwest of the Iberian Peninsula, which aims to develop this project that will enable, around Reganosa, to develop this opportunity. As you know, this hub is one of six projects that is supported by the European Union within the TEN-T Programme; a project that emerges from the unit of action between Reganosa, Navantia, the University of Santiago, the Harbour Authority of Ferrol and the Board of Galicia, and a project that also bets on innovation. The chance? For the opportunity is not only to develop what is the supply of LNG, but also to build new ships, both LNG suppliers and those using liquefied natural gas. An opportunity also for the conversion of ships already built for the use of LNG, and also, logically, in the iodine of repair. We're taking advantage of these opportunities. The collaboration between Navantia and Reganosa is allowing the yard to offer an integral ship repair service, a service that is only offered at this time in Singapore and Ferrol. It is therefore an opportunity to deepen the industrial diversification of Ferrolterra. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u402	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mr. Tellado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u403	Thank you, President. Thank you, Counselor. Look, seriously, a group is coming to this House today to propose the closure of a company. We think it's pretty serious that a group comes to this full asking for the dismantling of a company in Ferrolterra, the dismantling of the gas plant. But from our position it is equally serious that this proposal for dismantling, closing, of a company in the district of Ferrolterra receives the abstention of the Socialist Party and the Galician Nationalist Block, which is what we saw this morning in this House. Abstention, from our point of view, is not a valid position, it is a genuine irresponsibility to the message that these groups send to the 60 workers of the direct template of Reganosa. PSOE and BNG tell them that their employment gives them exactly the same, and the hundreds of workers who depend on the auxiliary industry exactly the same. Because this gas plant supplies, for example, the combined cycles of the bridge power plant; it supplies Alcoa, that company that says they are concerned by the Socialist Party and the Nationalist Block Galego. They come here today because they want to close your gas supply. The Coruña refinery, for example, is supplied. We, understanding that AGE wants to close all these companies, what we don't understand is the position of the Socialist Party and the Nationalist Block of Galicia, of its indifference to that closure. We therefore understand that they share that decision. We're going to defend employment, we're going to defend the Galician industry and we're going to certainly promote the reindustrialization of Galicia, which is the project that the Economic and Industry Councillor and the Galician Union defend. In that sense, Counsellor, what I ask you to do in this second intervention is that it will affect this gassy hub, and the expansion of Reganosa's capabilities, to that process of reindustrialization of Galicia that promotes and pushes the Council of Galicia through its council, the Council of Economics, Employment and Industry. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u404	Thank you, Mr. Tellado. Shut up. Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u405	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Tellado, indeed, the development project of this hub is already being an opportunity for Reganosa for its international positioning. It is being an opportunity for Navantia because it is actually participating in the repair process of this type of vessel. It's also being an opportunity for our auxiliary industry. And we have to keep moving in that direction. That is why I can move you that, indeed, the TEN-T Programme, which was the programme that actually led to the development of this project, because it has continued with the initiative within the CEF Programme, the Connecting Europe Facility Programme, which will undergo the reaffirmation of European support. Because the support of the LNG hub has European support for Galicia's action in the implementation of the LNG as maritime fuel. A path that, among other measures, will include the opportunity to promote the centre of excellence that will enable the personnel needed for the development of this hub. It will also include promotion and dissemination actions within this centre of excellence. It will also allow a very important aspect of what we are working on, which is the conversion of the public fleet dependent on maritime rescue. It will also suppose to adapt the current docking, granting better technical conditions by catching new ships. And also the preliminary engineering work towards the construction of a new trap on the Mugardos terminal. In this context, I believe it is important to underline in this Parliament that the European Gas Planning for the period 2015-2024 was approved last March, including a number of infrastructures that will be presented and developed by Reganosa. We're talking about building a third tank in Reganosa. We're talking about building a second jetty for the plant and a new vaporizer to double the regasification capacity of the Mugardos plant. Therefore, Reganosa, ladies and gentlemen, has planned an investment of EUR 60 million over the next five years only to respond to the challenge of the deployment of LNG as maritime fuel. So it's a bet for the future; a bet that will allow us to consolidate industrial diversification, which will allow the turnover of the businesses of the Greek shipyards to increase, both by building new ships and by participating in their reconstruction, and logically also aspects that are already a reality for Ferrolterra. Reganosa generates 65 direct jobs and about 100 indirect jobs. At this point, there is a full occupation in the Navantia-Fene repair area and also in the investments that Navantia is developing in the Ferrol creek facilities. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, an impact on the economy and employment of the district of Ferrolterra that has no doubt whatsoever. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u406	Thank you, Counselor. Question by Juan Manuel Fajardo Recouso, from G.P. of the Alternative Galaga de Left on the concrete measures envisaged by the Government of Greece to avoid the loss of jobs in companies of the Tragsa group in Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u407	To put the question you have the word Mr. Fajardo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u408	The truth is that the People's Party has chosen a bad day to say here that they are the guarantors of employment in Galicia and also of legality, right now, when we have confirmation of the news of the prosecution of a new member of the People's Party. As you can see, there will be no people left on the lists, between imputations and resignations. And I'm saying you've chosen a bad time to talk about the job defence because they're flagging the defense of 60 jobs in Reganosa, but they're going to liquidate 160 jobs in the Tragsa group in Galicia, and in the state as a whole, 1,336 jobs. So that's our question. If you defend employment, how can the People's Party not do anything to prevent this destruction of employment in a public enterprise, especially when the reason for an ERE presented in 2012 for economic reasons, which has been overthrown by the High Court, and now the Supreme Court ratifies that if it can execute that ERE? So, if in 2012 there were economic causes that said Tragsa had to reduce the staff, if he was able to endure until today improving his conditions and his situation, already overcome, therefore, that situation, how do you defend that 160 jobs will be lost in Galicia? And besides, how this political decision is compatible, in a public enterprise, with firing workers with the supposed economic recovery of what you are bragging about. If we're out of the crisis, if we're in an economic situation that you think is brilliant, how can you agree that a public company that – I insist – has recognized to improve its situation with regard to 2012 when you presented the ERE, is going to fire 160 workers? That's all in a public enterprise that, in many cases, is used as a center for putting the People's Party into high office. We must remember that while 160 people will be fired from Galicia, they will keep wages of more than 150 in the entire state they charge more than Mr. Rajoy. Political salaries of the People's Party. They're going to fire more than 160 people in Galicia, maintain a position for their high office, which is the known "chupito," a sort of compensation for the execution of the works, which they receive above their wages. And they maintain, for example, an important part of the template, especially managers, the use of business cars for their particular tasks. So we, as you have just said here that you are defending employment in this country, we ask you: what will the Galician Union do to prevent these redundancies in Galicia and in the state as a whole, knowing that it is a public company from which the Galician Union is also part of its management because it is part of its shareholdersship, has part of the shareholdersship of this public company? So you have responsibility for this decision. What are you going to do about it? Could you give me the exact data of how much the Galician board owes to the Tragsa group? 'Cause maybe we'd have a formula to avoid these layoffs. If you're committed to employment, we ask you today to tell us what you're going to do to prevent 160 families from being fired in this country. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u409	Thank you, Mr. Fajardo. Response from the economic, employment and industry advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u410	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Fajardo, I would ask you a little bit of rigour, above all, in the use of the different verbs that you usually move to this House. The first one, to express the utmost sensitivity of this government to Tragsa workers and Tragsatec workers after that Supreme Court judgement. Maximum sensitivity and complete willingness, Mr Fajardo, to effectively act and do all that is in our hand to collaborate with the workers. The first thing I had to tell you, and which I should certainly ask, is that until now the unions have not yet contacted this government. First important fact. Perhaps it is, Mr. Fajardo, because the company has transferred them to trade unions who have not yet made a decision and who has shown their willingness to engage in dialogue and negotiation. Perhaps it is, Mr Fajardo, because today – I inform you – the meeting of Tragsa workers from all over Spain is celebrated just to request permission to negotiate the feasibility plan. So, trying to get here and try to accuse this government of liquidating jobs or not defending the interests of the workers, I think it's just a further inconcretion and an excess verbal that you're committing in this House. In any case, what I'm telling you is that this government is fully at the disposal of the company and the workers to listen to them and make them available to us in all those mechanisms that we have in the Government of mediation and labour arbitration. We do it with all the companies, and, of course, we're not going to do it with workers who are developing their work here in Galicia! Well through the Labour Inspectorate, well through the Greek Agreement on Extrajudicial Settlement of Conflicts, that's what we can do and what we will do. Because this government, Mr. Fajardo, always respects the autonomy of negotiation, which you see is not respectable; of course, we do. Having clarified this, which seemed important to me, I can only tell you that what you are doing this afternoon has a name – I told Mrs. Adam last week – is opportunism. You're the opportunists. In the case of AGE, in addition, an opportunism that doesn't look for any kind of solution, because you don't look for any kind of solution. You come here to talk about this government's intention to wind up jobs, and in no case. It is opportunism, lordship, impromptu of a parliament, that you repeat full after full because you are only interested in creating confusion, creating instability and simply finding a political income. I believe that using workers for this kind of strategy is not the case with this Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u411	Thank you, Counselor. Replica. Mr. Fajardo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u412	Surely you as Employment Counselor are quite sorry, not to say gross. And I'll tell you why. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] To accuse this opportunism group when today, this morning, the workers were at the door of this Parliament asking that they should not be fired; when there are mass assembly today asking that these dismissals be not executed; when they were denied reception in the Parliament of Madrid, by the People's Party, to union representation; when in this Parliament they were received by Mr. Balsairo and they told him neither yes nor anything else; and when they know that the Government has made a decision, which is to speed up the ERE until after election on electoral matters. That's opportunism! That's political barbarism! It's a way of working for the absolutely indecent People's Party. [[Applause]] Because you know why you want to bring the People's Party? Just to have a place to put theirs when they're out of the institutions or when they lose their jobs. So Tragsa, those who charge more than Mr. Rajoy, almost all are former mayors, former concelers or members of the People's Party. That's Tragsa's reality. I'm just telling you a question. It makes no sense to apply an ERE of redundancies when Tragsa 2014’s viability summary says: “The Tragsa group has reached a net turnover of EUR 625 million in 2014, resulting in an increase of 1.8 % compared to 2013”. It doesn't make any sense to dismiss 1,600 workers when they have reserves of 212 million euros, which would mean that to end these reserves they would have to have these workers for 276 years. What are we talking about, Counselor? We're talking about a political decision made, about dismissing workers from one company to place others; a political decision made that has to do with the lack of commitment. And don't tell me about mediation because you're part of the conflict. We're not talking about a private company, we're talking about a company that is part of SEPI, where the Galician Union has shares and is part of the company's management. Therefore, the Galician Union is an interested party, you don't have to look from the outside, you have to stand, and the Galician Union has to say that if there's economic recovery, if everything goes as well as you defend, there can't even be a single dismissal. I hope that's your answer, that you won't agree to a single dismissal, because if you don't, after the elections we'll see who was doing opportunism and who was doing cheap barbaric politics.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u413	Shut up. Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u414	Look, Mr. Fajardo, you don't need to be angry. We can have a debate with a great deal of measure. I understand perfectly that my ways...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u415	Quiet, please. Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u416	...don't be yours, which doesn't mean that...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u417	Mr. Fajardo, be quiet. Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u418	Look, even if my forms aren't his and he makes excess verbales permanently... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u419	Mr. Fajardo, I call you by order. Mr. Fajardo, I call you by order. It's the second call to order, the third you know you're expelled. Second call to order.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u420	Having said this, it doesn't mean, Mr. Fajardo, that I don't care what happens to the Greeks and the Greeks. Of course I'm interested, because look, I occupy 24 hours of my time and my life in defending the interests of the Greeks and the works of the Greeks. [[Applause]] And not only that, Mr. Fajardo, does my team in the council and also does the whole set of people who are part of the government. So what I can tell you is that you are not more concerned or more sensitive to employment and the situation of Tragsa and Tragsatec workers than this Government, I can assure you. He's got nothing more to worry about than this government. [[Applause]] Therefore, AGE lessons on defence and sensitivity to workers and to Tragsa workers, none. I would like to thank you, though, for having the same level of concern - for talking about employment - for the employment of the rest of Galician workers, because it seems to you that there are first and second workers. Because of course, when we talk about Reganosa – which we talked about this afternoon – when we talk about Elnossa, when we talk about Ence, when we talk about Meirama, when we talk about the bridges, when we talk about the marine wind, when we talk about the aeronautics of Rozas, it seems that these are not German workers. These are 15,000 Welsh people who would have to go to jail simply for an ideological and opportunistic decision of their parliamentary group. If you like, we also talk about mining. I'd like your group to show the same interest in mining, and I'd ask you to use the same approach you use in Andalusia with respect to Aznalcollar. It turns out that in Andalusia it is one criterion and in Galicia another, just to be against this government. And one last clarification, Your Honor, so you don't try to fool people. You know perfectly well that the Union has an action of Tragsa, which is a share of 0.003%, just like the rest of autonomous communities, and you know perfectly well that this Union of Galicia is not represented in the councils of Tragsa or Tragsatec. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u421	Thank you, Counselor. Question from Mr. Cosme Eladio Pombo Rodríguez, G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the measures taken or envisaged by the Council of Culture, Education and Universitary Order to ensure quality educational care for all compulsory students who cannot attend classes for long-term illness
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u422	To put the question, Mr. Pombo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u423	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, gentlemen. Mr. Counsellor, last October, he jumped to the press the report of Nieves Villar, a mother of Malpica who claims quality home education for her son Adrián. Home education for a leukemia-sick child who because of illness can't attend classes along with his companions. Counsellor, today you are with us Snows, I welcome this Greek Parliament, because she, two months later, is still a symbol of the struggle against cuts in education for claiming home care for her son. Snow's son, ladies, last year's grade was 5th grade, and he's been in the hospital for four months. Today he's still fighting leukemia under hard chemo sessions, and he hopes to be able to receive half of the educational hours he receives any child of his or her age so as not to miss his or her educational training as well. He runs today 6th of the Primary School, and he still has to fight six more months with hard treatment. Snow doesn't understand, Counselor, the very harsh behavior of the Education Council, which doesn't want to listen to a mother who claims for her son in half the hours her colleagues receive at school. Counselor, why so hard? To fight cancer and also have to fight for claiming a child's right to have educational attention at home so as not to lose on the educational aspect as well. The legislation of Junta states that home education will have as its aim the continuity of the student's training process that by illness cannot regularly attend the center for a prolonged period of time. How do you guarantee, Counsellor, the continuation of the training process with three hours of home care at home, or four hours a week? Counselor, Adrián maintains his illusion despite the fact that leukemia on January 8th put him to the test. But neither he nor his mother were defeated, even when he had stayed at 32 kilos; today he recovered already the 50, and Adrián and more snows recover life. Counsellor, it is an obligation of the council to maintain the illusion of all the Adrians in Galicia by maintaining home education that guarantees the continuity of the education process. Counselor, today we have a mother with us who claims that the council is looking at all the children waiting for quality home care. Tell us, Counsellor, what measures has the board taken to ensure quality home education for all...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u424	Thank you very much, Mr. Pombo. The councillor for Culture, Education and Universitary Order, Mr. Román Rodríguez, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u425	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. It's true that in recent times, in recent days, if you're talking about home education in Galicia, and that you're relating this whole system to a specific case of a Malpica boy. I also use it to greet his mother and also to wish him the earliest possible recovery of this child. But it's no less true, Mr. Pombo, that nowadays – and we've been like this for several months – there's usually an oscillating number of children between 30 and 40 who are in a very similar situation, which is that because of illness they can't attend their classes on an ordinary basis. For some time now – and it is also no less true – there is an educational service adapted to these situations, both in hospitals themselves, with a hospital care service, and with a home care service from which Junta intends to provide educational support to the children in this situation. For some time now, you have a legal framework in Galicia similar to other autonomous communities; that is, there is no autonomous community that has a specific law, if there are different decrees. Galicia also has a decree, in this case the 2011 Decree on the Care of Diversity, which regulates and collects everything that has to do with hospital and home education. To say, in this sense, in recent times, it has also been intended to give a new impetus within a global framework, within the global framework of the 2015-2020 Galician Strategy of Coexistence, to further promote these kinds of issues. And the fruit of this was made available in the educational community last Friday, precisely, a new protocol, which is the protocol of home education care, which basically what is being proposed is to formalize, regulate and give a rapid and agile educational response to these types of cases. This protocol – which I suppose you already know, Mr. Pombo – is based on four pillars. The first step is to ensure the allocation of the means, the resources necessary to address all cases produced in this matter, both in hospitals and at home; that is, to make available to families the necessary means to provide educational coverage in this case. The second is also incorporating technological resources, technology resources, to be able to implement processes, based on new technologies, among families, households and also educational centers, obviously with tutor supervision and with the supervision of teachers. The third is also to strengthen coordination between health and education departments, between education and health, to have maximum and minimum times of response starting – I understand – a priority in which we will agree, which is most important in these cases, no doubt, is to achieve a health exit...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u426	Thank you very much, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u427	...for our students. And the fourth – finally – is to articulate training measures for teachers. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u428	Thank you. Mr. Pombo Rodríguez's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u429	Counselor, it's true there's a protocol, but there's already a protocol. We already had a regulation that said that the continuity of the student's training process represents home care, and that there was a guarantee of resources for the maximum development of the student's potential. That was already on the paper, but it didn't really happen, because this mother who's here offered her three hours of class, and she's paying for more than 12 of her pocket so her son won't lose. So one thing is what gets on paper and another is right. Snow wants his son, who has recovered his life, to be able to recover the continuity of the training process at home, who has those resources that are on the paper, necessary for cancer to not be able to discriminate against his colleagues, so he can join the school next year, although – I say – he has to continue fighting for six more months against cancer. Snow came to Parliament today because there are many families, Mr Counsellor, in Galicia – and you know – with children who are ill with cancer who do not receive quality home care. You may receive an hour or two or three or four a week, but those little ones and those little ones need more real engagement from the board. Counselor, I, of course, take advantage to bless both the Snows and the Welsh ANPAs, who, thanks to their work, have made the councillor move and speak in a role of the rights that they are, but those rights have to reach the families. [[Applause]] That's why I'd ask you to take advantage of the last intervention, Counsellor, to tell that family there, and all families, that there will be enough teachers, with specific training, to cover the hours the student needs, because, after 13 years of a regulation that exists, I suppose you know that there are diseases and how many students are affected and what resources they need. Counselor, even I think you could use it to talk to this mother...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u430	Thank you very much, Mr. Pombo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u431	...to look into his eyes and tell him that...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u432	Thank you very much, Mr. Pombo, your time is up. Replica from the Councillor for Culture, Education and Universitary ordination, Don Román Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u433	Mr. Pombo, I think we're going to agree that a decent society must give you a proper response to these kinds of situations. We will undoubtedly agree. The Galician Union has done so, and with this protocol it will certainly do better. It'll do better. I'll tell you another question. I believe that the allocation of educational resources should not be done in an arbitrary way, it should not be done. It must meet the criteria of specialists, both health and education. Look, in this protocol, what's fixed and guaranteed are the necessary resources, and you said it. Specific resources, new training mechanisms and new technological mechanisms. You said it, and this protocol will do it. Look, we don't share – and I'm saying it clearly – is that we have to put a specific number of hours of attention. Why? Because every case is different. Each case, every child in that situation, has a different situation, and it is necessary to have an individualized program for each child, where it is fixed with the puppetry, with the guidance service, with the inspection service and with the medical services the concrete reality and the concrete necessity of each child. Each child is different, each case is different, and it must be approached in a different way, without saying twelve and a half for all or eight, why not eight, why not fifteen? I'll tell you a date that I don't know if you know it. There are children in Galicia who have over 12.5 hours of home care because from the health and educational point of view the technical services – not arbitrary, political, mine or anyone – say so. In that sense, I think we have to be a little more prudent. Anyway, what I'm telling you is next. The new protocol will allow you to specify, it will allow you to develop, a number of issues that will improve a system that was already functioning relatively well. Look, there's gonna be a maximum attention time since there's a fixed health situation. There's going to be a monthly follow-up, a monthly coordination between teachers and tutors, there's going to be a better teacher training, there's going to be a close-up of technical and technological resources to families who need it. There will also be an educational and individualized program, there will be greater coordination between education and health, there will be educational innovation programs. Now, what we have to do now is always from the technical criteria, the criteria that will be decided on by the Inspection Service, the Guidance Service and the Health Service, and, depending on each case, to make available to these families all the resources that are needed, because the most important, of course, is to ensure quality education. I'll tell you one thing, Mr. Pombo, on such a sensitive subject as this one, as sensitive as this one! it can't be worth everything. You can't mix interests outside the health or educational situation of a child like Adrián, or other adrians, with party political interests. It can't be worth anything, Mr. Pombo. I'm going to tell you one thing – and I'm telling you publicly here – I wish with all my heart that Adrian – just like all the children – has a rapid health and education exit.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u434	Thank you very much, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u435	But it can't be worth everything, and we have to put the resources that are needed on the basis of technical criteria. Nothing more and thank you very much. [[Applause]] Question by Da María Concepción Burgo López and four other Members of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the opinion of the Council of Health regarding the fulfilment by the University Hospital Lucus Augusti, of Lugo, of the criteria defined by the Spanish Society of Cardiology to open a unit of hemodynamics 24 hours
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u436	Mrs Burgo has the floor to ask her question.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u437	I don't have...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u438	Give Mrs. Burgo a voice, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u439	Now it is. Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon, gentlemen. Counsellor, you certainly know – if I don't tell you, Mr. Vázquez – that among all there are many promises that Mr. Feijóo has not fulfilled with the city and the province of Lugo. The biggest concern for all lights is the failure to implement the 24-hour radiotherapy, nuclear medicine and hemodynamics services at the Lucus Augusti Hospital; a promise made by Mr Feijó at the beginning of 2011 and not fulfilled at the end of 2015. You have to tell Mr. Counsellor, Mr. President that, as there are no liver transplants in Vigo hospital, there are no radiotherapy or nuclear medicine in Lugo hospital, because having a room is not to have the service. But today, of all these services that we don't have in Lugo, I wanted to talk about hemodynamics for 24 hours. We have a hemodynamics in office hours, i.e., open from 8 to 3, Monday to Friday; in a whole week it's open 35 hours and it's closed 133 hours. The Luminenses through associations, demonstrations, the Federation of Neighbors, institutions, and the Socialist Party have also been trying to make the People's Party understand that lives of lumens are being lost that could surely be saved. On this long way, the public party's health spokespersons, and even their predecessors in the Health Council, made all kinds of excuses for not having the service of hemodynamics 24 hours. One of the excuses was that there were no professional criteria; that is, criteria for cardiologists, to implant hemodynamics 24 hours, despite what Cardiologists said, but that there were no criteria. Today you can no longer say this – as you know – because the Incardio project, of the Spanish Society of Cardiology, which seeks quality indicators for the heart care units, has just published that there are basic criteria. One, that all hospitals that attend to 300,000 inhabitants have to have hemodynamics 24 hours and make more than 100 primary anxioplasties a year. All this is fulfilled by the province of Lugo, Counsellor, and as he meets all the criteria of cardiologists, I ask you: how do you value these criteria of cardiologists? How do you value it...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u440	Thank you very much, Mrs Burgo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u441	...the conclusions of the Incardio project?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u442	The health adviser, Mr. Vázquez Almuínha, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u443	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen. Good afternoon. We have to start with a fact that the network hemodynamics model in Galicia is effective and safe. I think it's the first thing to point out. I want to emphasize that Galicia is an autonomous community that, despite the aging of its population, greater than other communities, presents results in attention to acute myocardial infarction better than the average of the national health system, and in this it has much to see our Progaliam program, which you will know, the Welsh program of acute myocardial infarction, probably the best of all Spain for acute myocardial infarction. As far as the Hemodynamics room is concerned, according to the last report of the study Recalar de Sociedade Española de Cardiología, Galicia has a room for every 274,000 inhabitants, far superior to the standard recommended by society itself. You give a data of 300 and what you've published will have 400,000, the study Highlight. The governance model defined for the room set is based on network operation. Galicia has three Hemodynamic units providing care coverage to the northern areas – La Coruña, Ferrol and Lugo – centre – Santiago and Pontevedra – and south – Vigo and Ourense – with population distribution of 1,070,000, 750,000 and 950,000 inhabitants. This distribution involves the sufficient number of patients who guarantee the volume of activity needed to obtain the best clinical results, because the expertise is very important in these specialists, and this logically gives the number of interventions they perform each year. This organizational model thus collects the recommendations of regionalization and network operation, which consist of two of the main recommendations of this study. In particular, you ask for acute infarction in the ULA. As you know, the province of Lugo currently has a Hemodynamics room that has put this government into operation in January 2014. I don't think the term office service is appropriate, because with all regard to the administrative function, I think it's something much more important than what we're talking about. We respect the opinion of the professionals and we count on them in making decisions, so on April 17, a consensus document was signed with all the heads of Galician Cardiology Service – with all the heads – in relation to the attention of acute myocardial infarction, and agreed to have a yellow record that would allow patient information to be extracted and a prospective follow-up so that any decision-making can be based on objective and real results. It's not a political decision, it's a technical decision by the best specialists in the community. In the design of registers, in the definition of parameters collected in them, professionals designated from these services participated. The creation of this register was formalized through the publication in the Official Journal of Galicia of the Order of 11 May 2015, whereby the Greek Register of acute myocardial infarction is created.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u444	Thank you very much, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u445	Data from affected patients is included in the log...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u446	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u447	...by acute myocardial infarction with ST-segment elevation that are attended to in health centers belonging to the public health system. [[Applause]] One of the goals of the log...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u448	Counselor, the second round is over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u449	As you wish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u450	On second shift. Mrs. Burgo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u451	Counsellor, the Hemodynamics Service is effective and safe, I have no doubt, where it exists, of course. Where it doesn't exist, it can't be cash or secure, and in 133 hours a week it doesn't exist in Lugo. You know – I hope you know – that 60% of people with a heart attack in Lugo have to go to the Coruña, and that the average to receive a primary anxioplasty is in 178 minutes, well above 120 preceptive minutes by cardiologists. Actually, I'm worried that you don't know the conclusions of the Incardio Project, but they're published in the magazine of the Spanish Society of Cardiology. They're published there, you can read them, it's not 400,000, it's 300,000. And the averages are of no use to us, Counsellor, because it turns out that there is no such average hemodynamics 24 hours in Lugo for every 274,000 inhabitants because there is no hemodynamics 24 hours in Lugo. Therefore, you eat one apple half of yourself and I don't serve another one, Counselor. But if you want that unique record – that more than a single record is the endless record because it is never done, and that you always talk about it – it is not necessary to know – because they say the same cardiologists – that in Lugo there is 45% more mortality due to infarction at 30 days and that the mortality one year from having the infarction exceeds six times, six times!, the average of Galicia, Counsellor. You're playing with the life of the lumens, we've said it many times. They're spending lives that could be saved if you have the political will to put Hemodynamics there for 24 hours. And the neighbors, and ourselves, we're going to follow...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u452	Thank you, Mrs. Burgo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u453	...reviving...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u454	Thank you. The health adviser, Mr. Vázquez Almuínha, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u455	Your Honor, you'll probably know more than me about hemodynamics, possibly so. But, look, Mr. José Manuel Vázquez Rodríguez, Mr. Andrés Íñiguez Romo, Mr. José Ramón González Juanatey, Mr. Óscar Díaz Castro, Mr. Carlos González Juanatey, Mr. José Penas Cortés, Mr. José Antonio Iglesias Vázquez, among others, sign this document that says: "In any case, regarding the functioning of the Lugo and Ourense rooms on the 24 hour day, the majority opinion and the convenience of not modifying the current organizational model as long as no data is available from the log that will be implemented and that these should be advised." This six-month record, approved in this plenary session, was discussed for the decision-making evaluation of the results obtained. It will be valued by technicians – not politicians – and the decision will come out of these records. It's the only way we can do things right. What's the matter is that you disagree and deny that there's radiotherapy in Lugo. We've already got the gear on and it'll be in operation in very little time. What are you doing right now? Training of staff. The difference is one month up or a month down, but there's going to be radiotherapy in Lugo; just like there's going to be nuclear medicine, but already. What happens is they'd rather deny it and say that that day doesn't work. [[Murmurs.]] Come on. Together, we are convinced of the improvement of health care conditions and of course we will continue to fight. [[Murmurs.]] But I think it's important that you talk here about those who know, the experts, and those who sign this are the ones who know, these are the ones who know. [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] In addition, it has been approved in this Parliament – which I believe is free – the option of waiting for results to do what the experts tell us to do. [[Murmurs.]] And I think we should respect and deal with that which is an important service, a hemodynamic service that is working very well. [[Murmurs.]] Of course, we will abide by the consequences of a record that is in progress and approved in the DOG. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u456	Thank you, Counselor. Question by Mr Gonzalo Trenor López and eight other Members of the G.P. Most popular of Galicia, about the situation in which the Concello da Coruña of Space transfer is located for the construction of the health centre in the market in Santa Lucia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u457	Mr. Trenor has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u458	Ladies and gentlemen, in the last six months the Government in the minority of the Coruña, perhaps because of its inexperience, perhaps because of its sectarianism, has spoken ill of my city, our city, in all the forums it could. [[Murmurs.]] It has paralysed investments by over 4 million euros in the neighborhoods; it has blocked the investment of 10 million euros to expand and improve Alfonso Molina – who uses it every day over 100,000 citizens –; it has boycotted Indidex and its thousands of workers; it has doubled the taxes for companies operating in the port; it has also doubled the prices of sports activities, it has suffocated the Symphony Orchestra of Galicia economically; it has opposed the external port; it does not meet the payments to small businesses that do jobs for the municipality; it does not pay extra to officials and has raised municipal taxes for families, for commerce and for pemes. [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] In addition, this new government of minorities, sectarians, breaks with collaboration and institutional dialogue and puts poles on the wheels of all administrations that invest or provide services in the Crown...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u459	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u460	...blocking any state, joint or port project. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Mr. Vázquez Almuínña, in the neighborhoods of Falperra and the ensanche is necessary and a new health centre is demanded. [[Murmurs.]] The former mayor of the city, Mr. Black, worked for it, and reached the commitment of the Greek Government that, when all municipal proceedings had been completed and had done the transfer of space, the Board would execute the work. [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] Municipal procedures and assignment had to be a reality by the end of this year as late as possible. However, the mayor and his government team made statements to the media accusing the Greek Government of not wanting to do this health center and saying that the county has already done everything it depended on: processes, works and assignment of space. Even though my group doesn't record this, and we know that no assignment has been approved either in the government board or in the municipal plenary, both the mayor and his concilers insist on the contrary. You will understand, Counselor, that our perplexity is maximum, misinformation in the town of Coruña is maximum, and the concern of the neighbours is highest. For this reason, Counsellor, can you make clear what is the real situation today of the transfer of space to make the health center in the market in Santa Lucia? [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u461	Thank you, Mr. Trenor. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Please be quiet, please. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] The health adviser, Mr. Vázquez Almuínha, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u462	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen. Good afternoon. In fact, the Town Hall of Coruña has a compound that has been destined for the local market, called the market of Santa Lucia, located on rue Inés de Castro, with an area of approximately 4,315 square meters. In October 2014 it was signed between the Health Council, the Galego Health Service and the Town Hall of Coruña a cooperation protocol that aimed to establish a functional program to determine the new health uses of the compound, linked to the provision of health services in the municipal term. As could not be otherwise, the so-called functional programme for new health uses will include the following aspects: potentially reached population area, socio-economic impact, necessary minimum actions and infrastructures, potential health uses, competency distributions and joint actions, estimation of the assumed costs, justification for the advantages of the implementation of health uses, and also the establishment of viable alternatives. [[Murmurs.]] After the municipal elections, at a meeting held in our council with the new mayor, the commitment of health agreed with the previous corporation related to this center was reiterated, and he was reminded that an essential procedure is the assignment of these spaces. On 1 October, representatives of the Council of Health, the Sergas and the Council of Coruña held a meeting in which the foundations were laid for the feasibility study of the new health uses of this municipal office, and agreed to modernize the infrastructures of the primary care network. Logically, we want to do this in a sustainable way, to improve both the assistance given to citizens and the work environment of our professionals. We reiterate, however, that we need the assignment of the corresponding land. Even so, it is defined a roadmap agreed with the council and the deadlines initially set for the development of all actions, which are as follows: in 2016, the development and approval of the project and the bidding of municipal works by the council; and in 2017, the completion of municipal works and the commencement of the works of the health centre by the board. What remains as two key points for us is: Point one. The initial work, corresponding to the part of municipal use and the surrounding building, will be managed by the municipality after approval of a project previously agreed with the Health Council. And point two. Afterwards, a transfer will be made from the part of the building destined for the health centre and the same will be made available for the execution of the work corresponding to the counsellor's office. In this respect, I want to make it clear that there is currently no assignment to Sergas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u463	Thank you, Counselor. Mr. Trenor López's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u464	Counselor, we knew the Tide was paralyzing and blocking all projects and investments in the Coruña. But now we also know that the county is lying and is misleading citizens. His mayor, Mayor Ferreiro, lies and deceives the corruptes. [[Murmurs.]] Mr. Vázquez Almuinho, are you telling me that the assignment the Tide is saying it's already done isn't true? Counsellor, do you tell me that the same mayor who is criticising the Galician Union for not budgeting this year the health centre is the one who proposed it?, did that same mayor propose to speed up this infrastructure for 2017? Do you tell me that the tide welcomed for next year what had to be done in this one? You tell me, Counselor, if possible, that he went through with that contest of ideas that had to be resolved. That tide, the tide of paralysis, improvisation and blockade, has an obligation to pass from the dishes and interviews to the facts. [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] If you get to work to determine the space the health centre will occupy and make it available to the board, as urgently as possible, so that the work can be executed. [[Murmurs.]] I ask you, Counselor, not to be trusted, not that the inability to manage the tide prevents this project, which is a necessary project and is a project demanded by citizenship, is a reality. [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] And since the mayor doesn't see it for the benefit of the corrupts, I ask you, Counselor, to see you for the interest and health of our neighbours. [[Murmurs.]] Counsellor, so that there is no doubt, can you please remember the roadmap agreed with the Council of the Tide Crown? [[Murmurs.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u465	Thank you very much, Mr. Trenor. Please, let's hear it. The health adviser, Mr. Vázquez Almuínha, has the floor. [[Murmurs.]] Please, just give the word to the counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u466	Good afternoon again. Your Honor, I think this project is good for Coruña citizenship. It will undoubtedly allow for an improvement in population services, a potential increase and diversification of the supply of such services, as well as a dynamization of the area and its environment. This obviously implies the evaluation and study of the possibilities of the enclosure to achieve these objectives. This work, like so many works we're doing, is embedded within one of Sergas' strategic lines, which is to modernize the infrastructures of the primary care network. We want to do this in a sustainable way, to improve both the assistance given to citizens and the work environment of our professionals. [[Murmurs.]] We reiterate, however, that we need the assignment of the corresponding land. Even so, it is defined the roadmap agreed with the council and the deadlines initially set for the development of all actions, which are the following – I remember because I think they must be clear so that there are no doubts –: in 2016, the elaboration and approval of this project and the bidding of municipal works by the council. I want to remember that this is a market, and one part will be dedicated to the health center and another part will have other non-sanitary uses that will elect the Town Hall of Coruña. In 2017 it is when these municipal works will be completed and the works of the health centre will be started by the board. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u467	Thank you, Counselor. Ms. Da María Montserrat Prado Cores, G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the actions planned by the Government of Galicia for the inclusion of meningococcal B vaccine in the vaccination calendar
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u468	You have the floor to Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u469	Good afternoon again, Mr. Padre. Look, the chaos, confusion and alarm that they're generating with vaccines is monumental. I want to convey to you the concern of the Galego Nationalist Block, which is related to the concern of mothers, parents and professionals, because all the action carried out by the governments of the People's Party – that is, by the ministry and its council – with the vaccines is so chaotic and so unplanned that every day, far from normalizing the situation, it only increases the alarm generated around the vaccines. Look, meningitis B is a serious pathology that primarily affects children. That's up to me, which I don't have their spectacular level, I have that information. It's responsible for 7 out of every 10 cases of meningitis, and it causes a lot of concern because, as you know, it can leave serious sequels and cause death. Galicia is one of the most prevalent areas in the Spanish state of this disease; it occupies the third place, only behind two communities. And this alarm is perfectly justified because in the last year it knows perfectly well that there have been twelve cases that have occurred and five people who have died. There is alarm about the severity of the disease, but above all there is alarm about the management that you carry out; an erratic action, which, yes, no, only dispensation in hospitals for risk groups, pilgrimage to Portugal from parents and mothers. So the social pressure made them change their mind, and from 1 October they authorized non-restrictive medical prescription and free sale in boutiques. From there, you embroidered the chaos and the alarm. First, they create discrimination on economic grounds. The vaccine can be administered, but it can only be administered by those families who are economically available to buy it, because, as you know, each dose costs more than 100 euros. After that, there's no forecast. By giving that shop gun from October 1st, it turns out they didn't have the precaution to see if there was supplies or not. Consequence? Hundreds of people waiting lists. The information that still comes out in the media today is that the boutiques say that the situation will not be normalized until February because they're giving them a drop in their doses. Alarm at setting priorities, because you ask pediatricians to only pray for children under two years of age because they are a risk group. My question, Counselor, can you make a worse management? Why isn't it included in the vaccination schedule, and free of charge, the men's B vaccine, counsellor? Because all you're getting is distress, confusion, despair and improvisation. And what remains of manifesto is a total lack of...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u470	Thank you very much, Mrs. Prado. [[Mrs. Prado Cores speaks words that are not perceived.]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]] The health adviser, Mr. Vázquez Almuínha, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u471	Ladies and gentlemen. Mrs. Prado. The knowledge I'm going to expose here is not mine. I'm at the level that can be you, really. What's going on... No, no, what happens is that I logically rely on reports from technicians, public health people, people who know, especially in this case, about vaccination. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Junta was one of the ones who fought for the sale of men's B vaccine in pharmacies, and I have to remind you that authorization gives it to the ministry; it doesn't give it to the Galician board or the Health Council, it's the ministry. And Junta was one of the things that took him to Madrid, and he managed, with other communities, to be included in the sale in pharmacies. What I have to say, of course, is that we don't have to be afraid of the population either. The communication to the pediatricians, precisely, is talking about the actual indications of this vaccine. Very few countries are currently funding the B meningitis vaccine. What is done is a review of public health, pediatric services, in each country, at European level, at national level and by communities. The incidence of meningitis B right now in Galicia is the lowest in its history. Surely, when we were children, the incidence was much greater, and none of us are vaccinated from meningitis B. [[Murmurs.]] So when the technicians, the scientific community, inform us about the need for vaccination, we ask through the Interterritorial Council to be included in the vaccination calendar. Today it hasn't been included because it's considered that there's still not enough incidence for that. But if you say there's vaccine for all risk groups, which are very clear, there's no doubt about it. It is true that there is a shortage at European level, and it is happening because the demand has been far higher than the countries themselves have established. Logically, here we will have to deal with everyone – I think it is necessary – to give the right information. That's why it's passed on to pediatricians and public health doctors who provide adequate information. And the right information is that the most affected group is between 0 and 2 years, so we have to think about it. This information is so important because vaccines also have side effects, and the risks of side effects and the improvement in prevention of that disease have to be assessed. Therefore, at the moment, the scientific community is not clear – and in Galicia, of course – that it is necessary to include it within the vaccine calendar. But it's a subject that's constantly being reviewed, and the committees and the Interterritorial Council decide to review it every bit of time, as is the incidence of disease, in that case meningitis B, or any other.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u472	Thank you very much, Counselor. Mrs. Prado Cores' reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u473	Look, Mr. Padre, I ask you not to hide behind scientific arguments. The Spanish Association of Pediatrics ensures that meningocococcal B vaccine presents a profile to be included in all vaccine calendars. You've been hiding on the subject of scientific evidence, and it turns out that the European Medicines Agency has already reported where scientific evidence is shown that it immunizes the population, with which it is an excuse, because I suppose that scientific evidence... No, the scientific evidence would be the same a few months ago, when they decided that only in hospitals, that now, that they allow there to be sale in pharmacies. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] If the efficacy and safety of the vaccine is contrasted and ensured, if it is authorised by the European Medicines Agency, if it is authorized by the State Medicines Agency, if the effectiveness is contrasted, it must be included in the vaccination calendar, you cannot be discriminated against by the population of Galicia, the children and the children of Greece, among those who have resources or do not have payment resources. With this new one that just came out today, that they're going to be able to pay for the baby check, I don't know if you think that's what the topic is all about, but there's a lot of families that can't, with a baby check or without a baby check, face the cost of this vaccine. And if the vaccine is safe and its prescription is allowed, why is it only for those who can pay it? That's the question I want you to answer today, Mr. Padre, why is it only for whom I can pay? Of course, at the BNG we can't understand this way of acting on the People's Party Government. They make the decision to only dispose of it in boutiques. What's the goal? We have many doubts that this is no medical criterion, because the objective of a vaccine has to be to prevent disease, protect from disease, and if it is not guaranteed to the whole population that protection, what does that vaccine serve?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u474	Thank you very much, Mrs. Prado. [[Mrs. Prado Cores speaks words that are not perceived.]] Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Mrs. Prado. Time's up. [[Applause]] Replica from the Health Counsellor, Don Jesús Vázquez Almuína.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u475	When you say I don't look behind scientific data, then shut down and let's go! this would be the jungle. I think if there's a serious, responsible health system, it has to be based on scientific data. Otherwise, it could be the tribe chaman who did the treatment of the population. I don't think so. I think it has to be the specialists in every area that give us... and the people that we are in health policy who listen to the people who must influence us. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Look, I'm going to read you an information; you're in Spanish because you're not from Galicia, and you say, "For these reasons, the current official recommendations for vaccination against meningocococcal B refer exclusively to a few people at risk of invasive meningoccal disease, without the generalization of their use." And no text above says, "Information to parents on vaccination against meningocococcus B." The community, the Government of Aragon, drew on 25 November – four days ago – this information because what is happening in Galicia and what is happening in other communities is happening. There is unvalued information that is creating anxiety in the parents and mothers of these communities. It's logical, I challenge... Perfect! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I defend that parents and mothers ask and ask for information because it's the health of their children, and I think that's reasonable. So we have to give him the real information, which scientists recommend, people who know the topic of vaccination. And also say, when we talk about vaccination, we talk about caring for a population, not an individual. It's not a treatment; this is a population theme that will be seen as years go by. It's not a treatment that we can decide and we have the result in a week. That's not it, that's something else. We, for nothing, defend a unique vaccination schedule at national level. And, of course, we would study cases that may affect us in a special way when Galician data is different from other autonomous communities. Not at the moment, but just as yesterday's Galician commission of preventable diseases gave the recommendation that it was appropriate to vaccinate pregnant women for the tosferina, we took note and, logically, we acted. At that same meeting, it was not the same with type B meningite. So we're going to be there. We're going to be on the lookout for scientific reviews, and from there on we're going to act.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u476	Thank you very much, Counselor. Question by Mr José Manuel Beiras Torrado and six other Members of the G.P. of the Alternative Galga de Left, on the forecasts of the Government of Greece regarding the rescue of the grant of the Souto de Leixa Occupational Centre, Ferrol, for its direct public management
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u477	You have a word for Mrs. Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u478	Thank you, President. Good afternoon again, Counselor. On this occasion we ask you again for a social welfare centre, in this case the CAPD Souto de Leixa, which knows perfectly and even that has just visited recently, when you get to your post. What happens is that you visited the centre and committed yourself to a demand that the ANPAs from that center and also to a claim that comes out of the colors — if I may say so — to the Government of Galician Union by the former People's Valedor, in the demand that parents and mothers can, in short, use the therapeutic glass; but the grave of that centre, Counsellor, as you also know, are the conditions in which they have been privatized since it was privatized. We put the question to him on the central issue. He knows that even now that concession is exhausted and that we are in time, if you want, to rescue that center for the public. And we say rescue because we have found out by the staff that provides services in it, and also by the ANPA, that since it was privatized, the working conditions they provide have been brutally damaged and, on the other hand, the conditions of the users and users of the center itself. As far as the workers and the workers are concerned, more than we have ever formulated in our own interpellation. He knows it's the center that supports the most users and users in Galicia, 172 people. There are only 55 workers in terrible, abusive working conditions, for half of the ratios needed for the same, but, if I may as well, with restrictions on fundamental elements. For example, as you know, you share this center of residents with the day center. In the hours when they attend the day center, the heating is set, but I suppose you know perfectly well that, once the visits go and they become part of the evening and the night, of course, not even the heating is in place, and you have to work the people there who provide services with the anoraks themselves and in very bad conditions. Secondly, you also know, because of the cuts, even now residents don't have any kind of therapy in the afternoons. They are practically – let's say – locked in their rooms, without being able to do virtually anything. It's more than I told you before: they don't have transportation, they can barely get out, and what they're practically with medication, and of course, as the parents and mothers of the users and also the workers tell us, with a very high level of deterioration. So the question is, Counselor,
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u479	Thank you very much, Mrs. Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u480	...let's...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u481	It's written already. [[Applause]] Mr. José Manuel Rey Varela has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u482	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mrs. Díaz, first of all, I would like to make it clear that we are talking about equipment that is owned by this administration, so there is no need to make a ransom. The ransom theme corresponds to others. This is the title of the Galician board, and in this facility a public service is lent, regardless of the management formula. I was answering precisely last week about another public service, specifically the Child Caregiver, which carries this same management formula, and what I was asked to do was to modify the conditions of that service, which worked exactly the same way. I want to answer this too, I'll answer it in private later. We will improve the conditions of childcare centres in the new calls, according to what has been spoken in this Parliament on the question last week, but that is the same management formula. So we're talking about a public service. That's first. A public service that, as it cannot otherwise be, meets the conditions and parameters set by the council, ensuring the quality of attention of the workers working at this centre, and also meets the ratios set for users to have a quality service. As far as the staff of the Souto de Leixa are concerned, I want to put the emphasis, in addition to the magnificent work being done by the professionals working in this center. Mrs. Díaz, it's not 55, it's 80 professionals who are currently developing their work in that center. I also want to tell you that I didn't go on one occasion, I went on two occasions to meet both the staff and the parents and the users of the center, because the best way to see the way things work is to be there, to look at the workers' faces, to look at the parents' faces, to move forward in important things. So, I mean, we've advanced on two very important things, as you know perfectly well. One is the operation of the therapeutic vessel. Especially on day 4, after a long time without working, with an agreement with the Education Council, this therapeutic vessel will work, which is essential for treatment in centres with people with disabilities. I therefore believe that, satisfaction on the part of the community of the centre, especially the parents and mothers. And it's also a center, like the one I was talking about before, which requires improvements. We already have an estimated memory of those improvements for the year 2016. So...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u483	Thank you very much, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u484	...this is what I can answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u485	Mrs. Díaz Pérez's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u486	Counselor, I appreciate your sincerity, what happens is that I'm worried, in this case I'm worried. Because you were mayor of the city of Ferrol, and that you've gone to this center that... of course, if you know him, I don't tell you, I know even the users!, Roberto, who died, and so on... that he's been gone twice since he's counsellor seems serious to me because he was mayor of the city of Ferrol. This was the picture you took with Mr. Román, who is not present here, for the therapeutic glass that goes... you say it as if it were a big thing. They've been fighting for seven years for the therapeutic glass to be used three days a week. But look, Counselor, I know what the concession of a public service, and it's privatized, is a company called Clece. You're not able to tell me, nor can users say it out of absolute opacity, because you're in front of a private company, what's going on in that center. If not, tell me what happened, how many deaths there were of users! I know how many deaths there have been. Tell me, too, how much aggression. They just received the workers this month. I'll tell you how many workers, how many defendants have positions, how many have won, Counselor. It's not a minor thing. I appreciate your sincerity. You're telling me, we're not going to rescue the center and continue privatizing. But it's just that privatization... yes, Counselor, they're going to bid you out like this little bug we have here, and they're the only ones who've privatized this kind of service, Counselor. In addition, contrary to all the recommendations. Against all recommendations because there is opacity, I insist. Therefore, Counselor, very well, the first central question is clear to me, but, without doubt, the conditions of the workers, which, too, if you want, you can speak to them, with names and surnames... I can even tell you what conditions they are in, that they dare not claim or claim their services. Inquiring yes, who have a price. You don't even dare the company committee itself, Counsellor. So, I ask you to watch what's going on in that center as well...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u487	Thank you very much, Mrs. Díaz. [[Mrs. Díaz Pérez speaks words that are not perceived.]] Thank you very much, Mrs. Díaz. Mrs. Díaz, your time is up. [[Mrs. Díaz Pérez speaks words that are not perceived.]] Mrs. Díaz. [[Applause]] Mr. José Manuel Rey Varela has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u488	Look, Mrs. Díaz, the truth is to speak at the parliamentary headquarters of death... ...No, listen to me for a second, Mrs. Díaz. [[Mrs. Díaz Pérez speaks words that are not perceived.]] To talk about death and aggression seems very hard to me. Look, I know – like you – very well what happens in Ferrol, I can tell you that before the fork of these two centers... it was an entirely – as you call it – public. [[Mrs. Díaz Pérez speaks words that are not perceived.]] Are you going to tell me that in that center years ago, when it was fully public, there were no cases of deaths and assaults? Do we know perfectly well that these cases occurred in this center regardless of who ruled and management formulas? [[Mrs. Díaz Pérez speaks words that are not perceived.]] Is that true? Is it true that, as a result of these actions, it was very difficult to agree with the educational community of Social Policy and the educational community of Education? It's just that, Mrs. Díaz, I know very well what I'm talking about, and I think you know very well what we're talking about. The real importance is the users and the workers of the center, the real importance. I'm telling you, we've got important improvements in this center. Day 4, a very important service. I would like you to speak to the parents who talked to me, who are the representatives of the ANPA, and to convey the thanks to you because after a long time this situation had been unlocked. [[Mrs. Díaz Pérez speaks words that are not perceived.]] Who had also talked to them and explained to them the project we were going to develop in that center in 2016. Look, the projects have made us technicians of the Social Policy Council. But look, I like it because, in addition to doing it, the technicians, the parents and mothers studied the project and brought improvements to that project, because things have to be adapted to different realities. And look, I had government responsibilities in Ferrol, you too. Is it different? I'm not going to talk about the subject of minors, I'm going to talk about social policy, about a council like ours, about Ferrol; but look, according to you, the home help service in the county of Ferrol, which manages that same company, is a privatized service, and it's a quality service. So the question is, will you also recover that home help service in the municipalities where they rule? And the social dining rooms in the county of Ferrol also work under this same formula. So, are we going to change all the formulas? We, the Government of Galicia, in the social sphere, will change it, will modify the Law of Social Services of Galicia so that this does not happen in the Union of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-02-DSPG134.u489	Thank you very much. We're out of order, we're up. Good night, thank you very much.
