ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u1	Let us resume the session with point 7 of questions for the oral answer of the President of the Council of Galicia. He asked Mr. President of the Galician Council of Mr. José Luís Méndez Romeu of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the evaluation of the social agenda of the Government of Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u2	You have the word, to ask your question, Mr. José Luís Méndez Romeo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u3	Mr. President, today in an important paper he talks about a Nobel Prize in Economics, Joseph Stiglitz, and I'm going to read you something that says it's appropriate. He says, "It's incredible that there are people saying in Spain that the crisis is going through because unemployment has dropped something. In any context, Spain's unemployment rate would be considered a disaster, and the youth unemployment rate would be another disaster. I don't know how the Government can say it was a success. It's like you've got a guy who was almost dead and you're glad he's not dead, but he's almost dead." And in case it wasn't clear, he goes on to say, "Austerity is a failed policy." Mr President, I would like to remind you of some information on how unbearable the situation is for families. Poverty. Homes with difficulties to reach the end of the month or at risk of poverty, 21%, twice six years ago. It's 600,000 people. Home with all the members stopped, they doubled with their presidency. For long duration, 53%. As a result: unemployment recipients fall. In June there were 113,000, and 140,000 were benefit free; of them, less than one third received the Risk, with the degree of efficiency that characterizes the Union, which has a delay of 8 to 10 months, though the law says they would be 3. And the rest, Mr. Feijóo, how do those over 90,000 people live? Loss of social expenditure, EUR 1,450 million each year; 8 points on the budget. And in case it wasn't enough, the Work Council and Wellness Council doesn't run 1 out of every 4 euros of social expenditure. Housing problems. You don't have to worry, we've just built 6 percent of state public promotion at 0% with you. When this group introduces to them impulse initiatives, it rejects them all. We proposed creating a fund against poverty, they voted against it. But you voted and approved an inclusion strategy; yes, you forgot any financial commitment. And if in the face of the fight against poverty, the position of the Union is warm, in the fight against unemployment, the answer is indeed powerful: directly down to half the employment budgets. Unemployment increases double, public spending decreases by half, 194 million euros less each year, and in some parts it declines in a scandalous way. In this legislation, Mr President, Galicia is the third community in the destruction of working hours, equivalent to 147,000 net jobs. Mr President, there is still triumphalism and another social agenda is needed. Do you agree, if not with this spokesman, at least with Mr. Stiglitz?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u4	Thank you very much. The President of the Board has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u5	Your Honor, if at that Nobel Prize we would ask you in 2007 or 2008 if there was a crisis in Spain, the crisis you denied, obviously the Nobel Prize would say that there was a deep economic crisis, a deep financial crisis, a deep crisis in the electricity sector and that we were in the worst situation ever than a government country in Spanish democracy. Naturally, Your Honor, you don't want to talk about it. But indeed, the social agenda for the Galician Union has two objectives: firstly, it is to contribute to an economic policy that is reducing unemployment in the community; and secondly, to shield public services and, if possible, to improve public services in Galicia. Your Honor, in fact we still have 214,000 unemployed, is the first problem of the autonomous community. That's true, but we have 23,200 unemployed less than a year ago, and 43,800 unemployed less than in 2013, and 43,500 unemployed less than in 2012, and even 10,850 unemployed less than in 2011. If we go to the social security membership data today, we have 21,598 higher to Social Security than a year ago, and 32,100 higher than in 2013; and even 35,000 higher to Social Security than when this legislation began. So, Your Honor, we are aware that Galicia's first problem is unemployment. We are also aware that there is less unemployment in Galicia today than when we take possession of this second legislation. In addition, the second agenda for us is the social issues, indeed. In full economic recession, the Nobel Prize and you should know – I'm sure you know – that we have, for example, increased dependence by 75%. When you were in economic well-being, there were 14,000 people who paid; now there are 40,000 people who charge every month. We are the second autonomous community with a higher ratio of dependent services, and we tripled home help. Your Honor, you should know that the Greeks were able to have 7,800 public social services squares; that's 76% more than during the Bipartite period. And when you tell me about Risk, Your Honor, you should know that Risk, according to our commitment, is being processed in 60 days. Therefore, Your Honor, at the end of this year the risk waiting list will be around zero; never before had you processed Risk more quickly. [[Mrs. Sestayo speaks words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u6	Mrs. Sestayo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u7	Your Honor, we know of the difficulties that Galicia is experiencing, without any doubt.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u8	Mrs. Sestayo, you have a call to order.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u9	What if I can assure you, Your Honor, is that Risga, since 2009, has grown by 130%, and in case some of the Socialist Party bench has not listened to me properly, I remind you that Risga is on average 60 days.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u10	Finish, president.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u11	And the end of the year will be around zero days waiting list. Thank you very much, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u12	Thank you very much. Mr. José Luís Méndez Romeo, spokesperson for the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u13	Mr. Feijóo, the truth is, put it like you put it on, your data, after six years, are worse than the day you arrive. And what Stiglitz would say, because he has written it in several books, is that austerity policy has failed here as it has failed in the countries where it has been applied; and that countries that have chosen another model have emerged before the crisis and at a lower social cost. Of course that's exactly what you don't care about. Look, you approved a job reform three years ago, the goal was to create stable and quality jobs. Today, one third – one third! – of the workers in this country earn the minimum wage or less, and half of the workers in this country earn less than 1,000 euros. Mr. Feijóo, that is a direct consequence of your policy! We're talking about unemployment and youth employment. Most of Thursdays work on part-time or temporary jobs, or both, such as in the inn and in commerce. Minimum level of qualification and therefore interchangeable, without the ability to negotiate wages. Labour reform has not ended with precariousness, it's precarious half of the Thursdays they work. Of these Thursdays, 1 in 5 works less than 20 hours; 1 in 3 has temporary contracts; 1 in 10 training contracts; and those who are called fellows, without contract, no pay or social security, don't even count in statistics. That, of course, is another consequence of labour reform: employment statistics have spread. We'll talk about that another day! Only the tenth of the unemployed receive an allowance; 18,000 young Greeks do not study or work. Mr. President, it's a different trend from the rest of Spain, which is illustrating the despair of a whole generation of Thursday. With popular governments in Spain and Galicia, youth lost job opportunities and unemployment coverage. They were excluded from independence that gives a decent wage. Silently, you are inviting them to emigrate and accentuate the demographic crisis.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u14	Thank you very much, Mr. Méndez Romeo. The President of the Board has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u15	Your Honor, you have not answered me about the Nobel Prize opinion on the economic crisis that did not exist in Spain in 2007 and 2008. You remember, Your Honor, that it was a small slowdown. [[Murmurs.]] And that slowdown led to the destruction of 54,000 jobs in Galicia the last year in which you were counsellor. Your Honor, I think that all Galicia knows exactly what happened in Spain, and also, of course, what happened in this country, so I'm surprised that you take certain ratings from a Nobel Prize in Economics which, for example, says, "expandative measures have not been effective in creating employment." Not if you refer to the 15 billion euros you spent, with public debt, to expand the sidewalks, parks and gardens of Spain; the so-called Plan E. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I don't know if the Nobel Prize refers to that, but what if I can assure you, Your Honor, is that in Galicia today we have more public services than during the Bipartite Government and if we have more daycare facilities – about 50% more – and if we have more higher residences, and if we have more daycare facilities, and if we have more disability squares, and if we attend to more dependents, and if we do more hospitals, and if we do more health centers, Your Honor, we are trying to fulfill our work. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Applause]] Your Honor, what is obvious is that you won't listen to us saying that this was a little slowdown. Never had a Government to manage the economic crisis that the current Government of Galician Union had to deal with. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] But in addition, now that it is beginning to clear, we have just adopted the Social Plan against Economic Inequity. propaganda, Your Honor, is to avoid defeats in Galicia. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Propaganda consists, Your Honor, in having more textbooks and more public food markets than ever. Propaganda means, Your Honor, to help families pay their electric fares and their electric receipts more than ever.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u16	Mrs. Gallego!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u17	Propaganda, Your Honor, means that since it comes in – I have to reiterate – the Rising file at the Galician Junta, it is being resolved in 60 days. [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Your Honor, the Risga files send us the Town Councils. It would be good if the Socialist Party's Town Councils were to clear the risk files
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u18	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u19	Your Honor, you shouldn't tell Galicia the facts that are not true. According to Caritas, social exclusion in Galicia is the lowest, both in homes and individuals, in Spain; the lowest And if you want to take the National Institute of Statistics, in Galicia the percentage of poverty is among the four autonomous communities with the lowest percentage of poverty: Basque, Navarra, Rioxa and Galicia. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we have a lot of problems, but there's no doubt that we're giving, first, the face to solve; and second, solving a lot more than you left us. Thank you very much, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u20	Thank you very much. Ask Mr. President of the Galician Council of D. Francisco Jesus Jorquera Caselas, of the G.P. of the Galician Nationalist Block, on the defence of Galician interests
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u21	You have the word, to put the question, Mr. Jorquera Caselas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u22	Yes, the Nobel Prize was Stiglitz, Madam President. Thank you, Madam President. Welcome, Mr. Feijóo. Look, at the last control session, instead of answering our question about the dairy sector, you tried to talk about Catalonia. Well, I have to tell you that in these past days, I was surprised by your sudden linguistic immersion into Catalan, when it turns out that in Galicia you have not yet repealed the decree of shame, and even assumed before Mr. Jiménez Losantos that he is in practice guilty of several articles declared null by the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia. Look, I'm also surprised -- I have to tell you -- the sudden linguistic immersion into the Catalan of a lord of Pontevedra that is not worthy to say a word in English and not even respect our toponymity when he speaks. But above all, I was surprised that in the last few days you remembered the spirit of the outrage. He said that if the Constitution were reformed to extend Catalonia's rights, Galicia would be heard again, because you wouldn't admit that Galicia was discriminated against. I mean, you haven't heard yet that Galicia is already discriminated against by the Spanish state. And for you, Galicia doesn't have to be heard to defend her rights, it just has to be heard when others defend her. [[Applause]] Do you think what your president's German people expect is that he's a spectator of what other people are proposing that Galicia be heard again? Because, look, through your mouth, Galicia is silent. Unless, of course, it confuses itself to be heard by the litulists of Madrid's ultra-right media to gain their favor in their personal advocacy campaign. You're opposed to Catalonia's independence, and in your opinion it would be even an outrage that reformed the Constitution to expand and shield Catalonia's competences. But, look, the case is that since you've been president, you haven't achieved a single competition for Galicia nor have you defended the powers that you had or exercised. He made his Government a simple belt of transmission of the dictates of the Rajoy Government. Look, we just saw it with the milk. We have exclusive skills in agriculture but you're the only one who did it was to say amen what was decided in Madrid. And he even had the shame, instead of asking for explanations to the central government for letting our owners get away, for explaining to our owners...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u23	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u24	...to oppose the agreement. Mr. Feijóo, the outrage is your government, because you are using self-government institutions for purposes contrary to those that have been created, not to defend the interests of our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u25	Thank you, Mr. Jorquera. The President of the Board has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u26	Good morning and welcome, Mr. Jorquera. I don't know if you really want this to be the Catalonian Parliament, but I have no interest, this is the Galician Parliament. So I don't know what the problem is with Catalan independenceists; I don't know if you're happy with the results of the Catalan elections. Yeah, well, if you're happy, I, of course, won't bother him at all. [[Mr. Jorquera Caselas speaks words that are not perceived.]] [[Murmurs.]] But I'm still telling you what we're trying to do to defend Galicia's interests, which is what I quote us here today. First of all, Your Honor, rule; that is to say, fulfill the mandate of the polls. And to govern, for any democratic government, is to comply with the law, and to comply with the law is to comply with the Spanish Constitution and the Greek constitution, which is nothing other than the Statute of autonomy of Galicia. I know, Your Honor, that you don't care because you're against the Spanish Constitution and the Galician Autonomy Statute. But it does not matter to us, Your Honor, first because we voted for it; second because we accepted it; and third because thanks to them we are in this Parliament. Your Honor, the second thing we have to do – in our opinion – is, of course, to express our rejection when there is a decision by the Central Government in relation to Galicia's interests. For example, when the Socialist Party - which you supported - ruled in Madrid, decided, after deceiving the autonomous community and saying that he would have some money that he did not finally have, to pass us an invoice of EUR 1,200 million, that of negative liquidations. Mrs Salgado of the Socialist Party forced us to return 400 million euros each year. So today we're not returning a potato, not in 2015 or 2016. Therefore, Your Honor, yes, defend Galician interests. Thirdly, Your Honor, defending the interests of Galicia – in our opinion – is to be supportive of the autonomous communities involved; for example, with Catalonia, which cannot arrive at the end of the month, nor can it pay officials, drugs or doctors, nor can it exercise its self-government simply because it is intervened. And the room I think we have to do – and you're sure you'll agree – is not to accept privileges or asymmetries. I suppose, Your Honor, that you won't accept any privilege that prejudices Galicia, you won't accept any asymmetry or any treatment in favor, even if it belongs to your allies. Even if it's CUP, even if it's Bildu, you won't agree with it. Of course, we don't. So, Your Honor, don't ask us to participate in a confrontational strategy as is currently installed in Catalonia because we don't have any complex about Catalan politics or any complex about Catalans. We are Greeks and we have our own politics, and we have a stability and a solvency that you would like to see for yourself the public accounts in Catalonia. And that's why, Your Honor, we're not going to do that follow-up in any case. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Your Honor, we're called spectators because we don't defend what BNG stands for. But, Your Honor, we have to defend what most Galician defends. And if we stood up for what BNG stands for, we'd be with the minority, and since we're with most of us, we'd defend our road map.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u27	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u28	Your Honor, we are not going to exclude or isolate Galicia from the rest of Spain. Galicia is a historic nationality of its own, it will continue to be and will not accept any privilege that its allies propose to the CUP and Bildu. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u29	Thank you very much. Mr. Jorquera Caselas' reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u30	Mr. Feijóo, I think you didn't understand the question, or, better said, you didn't understand it. Because, look, I'm worried about Galicia, I'm not worried about Catalonia. The problem is that Galicia has a president who considers Catalonia to be a serious problem, but it is inhibited from confronting Galicia's problems. The problem is that Galliza has a president who cares about others defending his rights but stops defending the rights of the country. Gallica's problem is that he has a government in subjection. Look, you're talking about privileges. Today we have just published the Decree resulting from the agreement on the dairy sector in Madrid. Do you know what the decree says? Read it, please, Mr. Feijó. He says that the yellow cattle, in order to collect 300 euros' help, have to charge less than 0.24 euros per liter of milk, the Andalusian less than 0.31. Are you going to say something or are you going to keep quiet, and Gallia will go on without making himself heard by his president? [[Applause]] Look, let's talk about the country's problems. Galicia has lost 8,000 million euros with the new financing system. Other communities demand their review, they put their proposals into practice, but you are silent, you don't listen, Mr. Feijóo. Galicia is an electric power, Mr. Feijóo, but it turns out that there are companies that are at risk of closing because they cannot afford the energy costs. But you're quiet, don't stand for an electric charge in Galicia. You can't listen, Mr. Feijó. Look, the Banco de España has just published new data that continues to show that the savings of the Greeks are being spoiled; the per capita credit in Galicia is only half the average of the per capita credit in the Spanish state as a whole. But you're quiet, Mr. Feijóo, you can't listen. Navantia hires four oil tankers, but they'll do it in Cadiz, in Ferrol, just the crumbs. But you're quiet, you can't listen. The country, Mr. Feijóo, is on sale by plots: R bought by Euskaltel. PharmaMar transfers his headquarters to Madrid.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u31	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u32	But you're quiet, you can't listen. Look – I conclude, Mr Feijóo – as my companion Carme Adán said, the problem is that her legacy will be that Galicia will have its headquarters in Madrid. That's the legacy you're going to leave Galicia, Mr. Feijóo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u33	Thank you, Mr. Jorquera. The President of the Board has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u34	Your Honor, 74.8% of the Greeks – the last CIS – felt as Greek as Spanish. Therefore, Your Honor, you must look at exactly what they've been defending for the last thirty years. Because when you take your opinion and make a decision to support some, they assumed about smart cooperation. You'll wake up. For eight years they supported the socialist governments in Madrid, and drew a series of games in the amendments to the budget that filled the Greek newspapers with pages. A money for the AVE A Coruña-Ferrol, another money for the AVE Ourense-Lugo, another money for the Portuguese Vigo-frontier. Zero euros of execution during the mandate of the Socialist Party, and you support these budgets. He said, Your Honor, that it was important to have 8% of the state's investments in the state budget for the total of Spain. Your Honor, since we got to the government it's not 8, it's 13, 4, it's 12, 3, it's 13, 8, it's 12,3 and it's 12.3. Your Honor, that's the budget, Galicia's investment in the state. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Your Honor, when you tell me that I don't defend Galicia's interests, there's a professor – who I think he enlisted in the BNG, then in another party – Mr. Fernández Leicega, who says that Catalonia's independence would cost Galicia 1 billion euros. I don't know, Your Honor, whether you agree or not with that kind of approach. What I'm telling you is that you should explain exactly what your policy is to defend Galicia. Look, Your Honor, they first agreed with right-wing nationalism in Spain, with PNV and with Convergence and Union. Then they decided to deal with the independent parties, with the Republican Left, with the CUP and with Bildu. Now it turns out they're arguing if they're no longer engaged with nationalists, but simply if they're included in the lists of the United Left and of Podemos. [[Murmurs.]] Your Honor, what is true is that in the European elections you deal with the same Republican Left as with Convergence i Unió, with PNV or with Bildu. In the national elections, it seems now that you are no longer interested in nationalism, we will see it; yes, Your Honor, in Galicia, they always deal with the same, with the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party. [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] Your Honor, we deal with the Greeks and the Greeks every time there are elections, we don't deal with any of these parties, just because we know what we want and why we know where we are. [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Your Honor, they're not going to bring Galicia the problem that the Catalans rejected in the polls, they're not going to bring it in. [[Murmurs.]] I'll never take Galicia to the confrontation situation that lives in Catalonia, never! it doesn't contain with me for that. For me Spain is a sign of freedom, stability, of Europe; and, of course, of our nation five hundred years ago. Yes, Your Honor, if you want to count on me to defend Galicia, you always have an ally. Mr. Jorquera, why are you closest...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u35	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u36	...a director of Bildu or CUP than the president of the Greeks? Why? [[Murmurs.]] Mr. Jorquera, I am closer to you than Bildu's leaders and the leaders of the CUP, and for that reason, Your Honor, I tell you that I stand up for Galicia, I don't do independent experiments or bring to Galicia the problems inherited from other places. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u37	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u38	Your Honor, we'll talk about milk whatever you want...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u39	Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u40	...what happens is, if you want me to talk about milk, naval, navantia... Your Honor, yes, like nothing, Your Honor? [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u41	Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u42	If you haven't congratulated me on the ship yet!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u43	Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u44	Thank you very much, Your Honor. [[Murmurs.]] Ask Mr. President of the Galician Board of Da Yolanda Díaz Pérez, G.P. of the Gaga de Left Alternative, on the management of the Government of Greece in regard to public health
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u45	You have the word of Mrs. Díaz to ask her question.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u46	Thank you, President. Good morning, Mr. Feijó. The transfer to Vigo's private hospital is over and chaos has come to our country's public health. We, Mr. Feijóo, wanted to ask you what's going on in the Welsh public health. What's going on? Because, as you know, September 3rd, 200,000 people went out the street. As you know, today they're making a ten-minute stop. As you know, there will be a general health strike in Vigo. As you know, there'll be a strike in Ourense too. As you know, they just deleted the Urology Service at HULA. As you know, there will be a strike in the Coruña as well. And, as you know – I suppose – they're crazy and crazy about health professionals, and they're even rebelling, because they're idle. We'd like you to explain to us why all these people who work in public health manifest themselves. And we would also like, Mr. Feijóo, to tell us whether you reaffirm yourself in a public statement contained in an interview that gave you a means of state action, particularly the ABC. You said, "Give him food and make a bed to a patient is not health." In that interview – a very interesting interview – he also said: "Try to make the state's fourth pillar of well-being when they are reeling" – you said – "the three vigilantes, health care, pensions and education, are historical irresponsibility." I suppose you say this, Mr Feijó, for obvious reasons. He just showed not only that he doesn't believe in the social protection system, but that he has no idea how to deal with a risk, he has no idea! But look, Mr. Feijóo, let's assume that you keep thinking exactly the same thing, because we told you in the previous control session that you privatized everything, besides the cannon that we're paying for an inadequate service at Vigo hospital, except for the staff that treats the patients at Vigo hospital, and you said no. Look, Mr. Feijóo, here's a ticket, you can check it out, if you want me to hand it over to the president of this table. This ticket says a patient for exactly 8 hours and 18 minutes parking in Vigo paid 27.10 euros...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u47	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u48	Do you know how long the parking time is here, Mr. Feijóo? At 3,31 euros. Very economic for normal people, very economical and, above all, very succulent for those who do business. You said they didn't pay for anything. Look, Mr. Feijóo, there are some screens there that indicate the price of everything. No more water-free machines, no more water-paid machines. And besides, there are services for everything, for example: internet day bonus, 3.02 cents of euro; TV day bonus, more internet...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u49	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u50	...more radio, 7.26 euros. And the most serious thing, in your logic, is that this is not health, Mr. Feijóo. But, look, this picture that looks like you? A patient who has no blankets and is covered in his clothes, and is in this chair... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u51	Finish it, Mrs. Díaz, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u52	...because there are no shirts, Mr. Feijóo. Is that what it is, Mr. Feijóo? Is this public health or is it Zambia's health? This is real time...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u53	Thank you very much, Mrs. Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u54	Tell us if you reaffirm what you said in that ABC interview. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u55	The President of the Board has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u56	Your Honor, in the past I have tried to make an effort to rescue public health from the lies that were poured into the Journal of Sessions. Today you have made me reiterate this position. You said good-bye, literally, "The armchairs. It's paid for having a chair in decent conditions." There were members of the Socialist Party who won it. Are you going to apologize for lying to the House? Are you going to apologize for telling the patients in Vigo's health area that it's fake that health is charging for using escort seats? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Are you going to say it or not? It would be good, Your Honor, because that would be good for public health. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Look, Your Honor, we are satisfied with public health, first because we have excellent professionals, those we had at General Hospital Cís, Vigo, which had been 60 years like this, and now because they are in another new, public infrastructure, funded by public funds, and also because these professionals are improving public health. Your Honor, if you are alone with the Association for the Defence of Public Health – I believe this association is very close to your ideological approaches – you will see that Galicia at this moment – according to that association – occupies the seventh place in the improvement of public health. When we got to the government it was number eleven, and before, during the Bipartite, it was number thirteen. Your Honor, according to this association, 73% of the Greeks are satisfied with public health. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Your Honor, when you insist that this hospital is private, pick up the parking lot, which is a powerful thesis. Look, Your Honor, the parking skills, as you know, are from the municipalities in Spain. Now that the Vigo Town Hall realized that it had free parcels handed over to the hospital, and that it's even going to make a small parking lot of 500 squares... that's right, 500 free squares parking lot already is there, which is what we put in that hospital, but the Town Hall wants to match with Sergas and make another 500. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Welcome, Your Honor. But if you want to talk about prices, why not, let's talk about prices, actually. See, in the parking lot of the Coruña costs 15 euros a daily bonus, in Santiago, 15.4, in Lugo, 12.6 e, in Ourense, 15. In Vigo, 12. Your Honor, do you mean that the hospitals of the Coruña, Santiago, Lugo and Ourense are private? Your Honor, when you want to keep talking about the parking lot, a 5-day allowance is worth 4 euros a day, a 10-day allowance, 3.3 and a monthly allowance, 2 euros a day. How much is it worth to park on the surface in the county of Ferrol, Your Honor, or in the municipality of Vigo?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u57	It's over, president.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u58	Oh, all right, Your Honor! I'm glad they don't cover and even have money for the Holy Ferrol Week. That's very good, Your Honor, and I think that's an excellent news. [[Applause]] Your Honor, if you want to stop manipulating...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u59	Finish, president.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u60	...if you want to talk about conflicts, I'll explain to you any of the conflicts you pose. Is there a conflict with the janitors in General Cías? Yes, Your Honor. You'll have to see exactly what they propose. But if I'd like Galicia to know that there are 60 more cells in that hospital than in the previous hospital. Thank you very much, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u61	Quiet, please. Mrs. Díaz's reply... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Mr. Gallego, you have the floor to Mrs. Díaz. Mrs. Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u62	Mr. Feijóo, I'm trying to respect him, but I see that, as all his information is like those of the Ferrol Town Hall... it's just that we're in this country: we don't know anything about it. No matter how much you lie, Mr. Feijóo – I insist, like that of Goebbels – it will not really become. Look, Mr Feijóo, the report on public health – which is a revolutionary Marxist-Leninist – has here some very interesting paintings in which Galicia stands out as the third autonomous community of the entire state that carries the ranking in privatization. By the way, this report, which should be rigorous and actually managed, also points out that we are the first autonomous community that has cut most this year and the one that has cut most of the time since 2009, that you have arrived. The ESC also asserts this fact, Mr Feijóo. We exactly have in our budget 359 million less euros and we also have, Mr Feijóo, in that very small budget, that half, 1,624 million euros, go to private health, Mr Feijóo, to these businesses. And we have a private health care for which we pay services like in Povervisa, having the highest waiting list even in the public, Mr. Feijóo. But look, Mr. Feijóo, you're lying. Today several media outlets are telling us – and a well-known media outlet, The Voice of Galicia, today's news – "four surgeries are being replaced today for lack of material without sterilization". We were also passed here by the fellows: "Fillow personnel leads the Cunqueriro to divert the medulla transplants to Santiago." Mr. Feijóo, what are you talking about? What are you talking about? Are the media lying? He's doing business, paying a cannon for an inappropriate service. And, by the way, Mr. Feijóo, are we going to be aware of those Aspergillus tests one day, in which you have been an expert for those 20 years that's been privatizing health? Those evidence that denounces the optionals that have been kidnapped, Mr. Feijóo...?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u63	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u64	And I hope, Mr. Feijóo, that he will stop falsifying the data from the public health reports. And when he talks about things, he's well informed. Ferrol is the only city in Galicia...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u65	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u66	...that you don't have the parking lot privatized, Mr. Feijóo. Go and study a little bit.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u67	Quiet, please. Quiet, please! You have the word... Silence, please! [[Murmurs.]] The President of the Board has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u68	Your Honor, it seems that the Ferrol parking lot doesn't charge. When we take the car and park at the Plaza de España do you pay the invoice to the ferrolans and the Greeks? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Don't all the public parking lots licensed in Ferrol charge all the citizens, Your Honor? [[Murmurs.]] Please be serious. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Nothing told me about the armchairs, Your Honor. If I tell you, Your Honor... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u69	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u70	...that this case of what you're talking about is that it seems that a patient, or a patient's relative, actually parked in the emergency park of that hospital. He didn't realize it and parked in the emergency park. And, indeed, there is no limit to the tariff that I just talked about. As it went by mistake, the whole money was returned to him. Ma'am, why do you lie to the House again? [[Murmurs.]] The armchairs, the parking lots, the privatization... stop lying to the House, Your Honor...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u71	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u72	...because here you can't tell everything that comes to mind. You can't say, Your Honor. [[Applause]] Your Honor, this hospital that we are paying for the Greeks is three times larger – they have 120,000 square feet of hospital surface more than the old hospital – they have 567 rooms – more than 100% of the old hospital – and they have 67% more consultations; they have 36 more comprehensive and complete surgeries and, nothing more and nothing less than 45,000 surgical interventions there.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u73	Mrs. Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u74	Your Honor, you multiply by two the emergency surface; Your Honor, you increase the TACs, the magnetic resonance, the delivery rooms, the resuscitation stations... but why bother you that we make public hospitals in Galicia, Your Honor? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Can't you accept that the People's Party is the party that most public hospitals did in the autonomous community in their history, Your Honor? Can't you accept that we take seven hospitals during the economic crisis, seven new hospitals or reformed hospitals? [[Applause]] Your Honor, since the last control session, we've done two things: first, to bid for the extension of the Navy hospital, they look..., which I already know doesn't interest you; and secondly, to make the most complex transfer that has never been done in Galicia, opening 100% of the Álvaro Cunqueiro Hospital. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u75	Mrs. Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u76	Your Honor, congratulate the Galego Health Service, who is doing a good job. [[Applause]] Look, Your Honor, that hospital you're talking about has been carrying more than a thousand hospital discharges since the transfer; that hospital you're talking about has more than 50,000 external appointments; that hospital...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u77	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u78	...of what we speak is a pride of those we believe in public health. And speaking of Ferrol, Your Honor, but why does he never interest you in health care in Ferrol? [[Murmurs.]] Why don't you ever be interested in health care in Ferrol?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u79	Finish, president.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u80	Your Honor, we are interested in health care in Ferrol, and there will be news in the 2016 budget for health care in Ferrol. Thank you very much, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u81	We continue with the development of the agenda with point 5 of non-legislative proposals. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. on the initiative of Mr. José Javier Ron Fernández and two other Members, on the actions to be taken by the Government of Greece in connection with the cooperation agreement signed by the Council of Galicia with the Ministry of Defence for the establishment of a drone test base in the Rozas aerodrome, in the Town Hall of Castro de Rey
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u82	To this non-law proposition... silence, please. [[Murmurs.]] No amendments have been tabled to this non-law proposal. In order to formulate the non-law proposal, Mr. Ramón Vázquez Díaz, of the Parliamentary Group of the Alternative Left Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u83	Good morning, Mr. Feijó. Mr President, I would ask you, if possible, to stay on the scene. I intend to talk about something that directly concerns you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u84	Mr. Fajardo, you have a call to order.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u85	As usual, Mr. President leaves his duties. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] For the rest of the present, ladies and gentlemen, you will undoubtedly agree with me if I say that the lie has a myriad of variants, lots of possibilities: they are the pious lies, they are the useful lies, you can lie to yourself, you can even fool yourself by telling the truth. There was a famous politician who claimed without a face: I have to lie so that citizenship trusts me. There are lies and lies, there are deceits, there are hiding, there are contradictions, there are silences... I had a teacher who reduced all these categories to two. He always said, as far as lies are concerned, that there were two guys: big lies and small lies. Today we are going to talk about the first category, the great lies, the great lies of this government and the great lies of this absent president. Because, set to lie, our government mind always to great, doesn't go with small things. If we had to write a treaty of lie, surely our president and his government would do a great work; lies that go from what was going to end the arrest in 45 days, the 3,000 jobs that would be created in Ferrol with the naval, the floating dike, what Mr. Martial Dorado didn't know was dedicated to, nor the contracts that would be awarded to this famous narco... all that is part of that already famous deal of the lie that has been written by our president over six years on account of all the Greeks. In the last debate of the nation's state, in a forum as important as this one, held on 7 October, President Feijóo announced the bomb and plate the creation of a basis for experimental tests with drones for civil use in the Rozas aerodrome, for which nothing more and nothing less than 10 million euros of public money, all the Greeks and all the Greeks would be devoted. He did so at that moment, despite the fact that AGE had denounced, and even proved, that in Rozas they were testing drones of military character for military purposes. And we had an obvious proof in the Atlantic project, tested, developed and finished in the aerodrome, they lit up. Francisco Cano, director of the multinational armaments Airbus Defense, manufacturer of this model, of the Atlante, recognized his military character in public; he made it public and patent. Daniel García, general director of the MBDA missile manufacturer, recognized that he was working on the Atlante artillery process. So our president lied; the Atlante is clearly a military drone. But if these facts were not serious enough, in case they weren't of itself important enough, last week, in recent days, we knew that the Ministry of Defence was testing in Rozas, in Castro de Rey, the drone Searcher, an Israeli-manufacturing drone such as those employed by this army – the army of this country – in its aggressions against the Palestinian people; a conflict – to give some data – that only in 2014 caused 2,300 civilian victims, of whom 500 were children. 37% of these victims are caused by drones such as the Searcher drone. In fact, Israel captures 60% of the world's drone sales. It's very easy to be moved by the situation of the refugees of the war conflicts, but then they hang out, support themselves, and even participate in the invasions and conflicts that cause these refugees. So that ambiguity and cynicism are once again clear in this case. The Spanish Army bought four Searcher drones that were employed in Afghanistan. It's evidence, therefore, that this model is a military drone, it's a drone with a weight of 500 kilos, eight meters wide and a roof of 20,000 feet high. I imagine, in addition – I suppose, it is supposed – that the Spanish Army does not buy weapons for its civilian use, although it is, at best, valuing it. The Ministry of Defence has set up in Rozas the so-called CIAR, an airborne research centre in Rozas, and I imagine that the Spanish Army does not establish bases and facilities in the province of Lugo for civil purposes; it would at least be something to be feared. It is clear, therefore, that he lied; it is clear, therefore, that our president lied. All we need to know is why he's lying. And at this point, one question might also be asked: what does an autonomous government like the one who puts millions of euros of money from all the Greeks in order to condition an aerodrome and turn it into a test base for military drones? What does the German Government do by paying the perimeter of a Ministry of Defence base? What does the government do by paying for the construction of a new control tower? What does the Government do by paying for the installation of laboratories, security systems or computer systems? What interest does the German Government have in putting its resources in order for the Ministry of Defence to establish agreements with companies in the arms sector? What does our government, the Government of Wales, look like, investing 45 million euros for the capture of tech partners in collaboration with the Spanish Army? There are many of them, therefore, the doubts that the Greek Government has to clarify in this matter. AGE, for its part, has also requested certifications from the State Air Safety Agency. We're still waiting for these certifications today. We must remember that we are talking about proofs with unmanned experimental planes, which, of course, only have to be defined, pose a risk to citizenship, and that, therefore, citizenship has the right to know whether the Greek Government is prepared to have all the certifications necessary for carrying out these tests, but they are not delivered to us. I insist that there are too many issues for the Government to clarify in this matter. All that documentation has to be at the disposal of all the Galicians and all the Galicians, and that's why we, the Left Galaxy Alternative, have registered this non-law proposal, because we believe it must be in parliamentary headquarters where the Government clears this issue, make all this data and something more important, tell us whether it is intended to recover a minimum of its credibility, say once and for all truth, say that in Rozas – and recognises – if they are performing military tests and stop taking the hair of the citizenry and the whole neighborhood of the surroundings, that they should stop taking the hair of all the Galicians and all the Galicians. It's evidence that the German Government is lying to us; the only thing we need to know is, of course, why. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, with a lie you can reach far away, but the hard thing is to come back from that place. Clear the road and force the government to tell the truth. So...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u86	It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u87	...support this proposal not of law. Nothing else, for now.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u88	Intervention of parliamentary groups. For the Mixed Group, Mrs. Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u89	Thank you, President. Good morning to all and to all. The military base of drones that is being installed in the Rozas aerodrome, in the city hall shining from Castro de Rey, was born in mystery. Already, as the AGE spokesman said, the president of the board announced in October 2014 an investment of 10 million euros to adapt the facilities to a database of drones for civil purposes. However, the model of a crewed aircraft that has been tested, called Atlante, has lit up all the alarms in the fear that the aerodrome will become a military base attached to NATO. It wouldn't be the first time Rozas is for military purposes. During World War II, the aerodrome was used by the Germans, who installed several observation towers in Arneriros, and three hangars in Rozas. A few days ago, I had to admit that military drones... Excuse me? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u90	Don't talk, Mr. Castineiras. Please continue, Mrs. Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u91	A few days ago, Junta had to admit that military drones are flying over the Rozas aerodrome, claiming that the technology of unmanned aircraft has its reference in the military industry and that the ally in the project of the German Government to convert the luminous installations into a drone industrial pole is the INTA, dependent on the Ministry of Defence. The Union ensures that five military models have used the luminous installations with the aim of their conversion to civilian use. The German Government announced in August this year an investment that exceeds EUR 50 million to convert Rozas into a European referent in the manufacture of unmanned aircraft. The Galician Innovation Agency, which will be the source of the funds, explains that the 25.5 million are by project selected, with which the figure could exceed 50 million; that is, of the 10 million planned in 2014, we now exceed 50 million, and without a single explanation. UTE, UAP Galicia, Airbus or Boeing, and groups of Everis, Elbit Systems, AgustaWestland and Teleesspace aspire to be concluded with the contract. Adjudication requirements are unknown as to the creation of quality employment. The Greek people don't want to collaborate in any of the ways to maintain the wars that haunt the world and that bring only death, hunger, sickness and misery to the common people. That is why, above all, Junta must be fully transparent in the managements related to any situation that involves military activity in its territory. It is no longer a matter of transparency in the management of public money, which also means that the will of the people of Greece is not being violated again in a military intervention, as has already occurred to us when the People's Party put us in a war that had nothing to do with us -- an unfair war, an invasion of a people -- as has happened in Iraq. We can't trust the President's word so many times that it's not just words. Junta and Feijóo must present the necessary documentary evidence to ensure the exclusively civilian use of the Rozas aerodrome and all the research carried out there. That's why I'm going to give my support to this non-legislative proposal of the Left Galician Alternative and I hope, for the sake of real democracy, that the People's Party will not get us into arms without the permission of the Greek people. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u92	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. Mr. Pombo Rodríguez has the floor for the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u93	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, very good morning. The Parliamentary Group of the Alternative Glaga de Left demands from this Parliament, by means of this non-legislative proposal, the need to urge the Council of Galicia to report clearly on the agreement signed by the Union and the Ministry of Defence on the theme of Rozas, on the economic resources invested and to invest in this project, on the privatisation covered by the Research Centre of Rozas and more on the expectation of the Union in the field of innovative public procurement linked to the drone industry. In the name of the BNG I want to express our support for the need for clarity and certain information for several reasons: the first because we are already fed up with the BNG of advertising and propaganda by the Government of Mr Feijóo; advertising and propaganda that almost always coincide with pre-election or even electoral times. Indeed, in October 2014 10 million euros of investment were announced, two of them by the Board, for the creation of the ICAR, of the Aeroported Research Centre in Rozas, for the sole application of civil use and that it would convert Rozas into an international reference point that would integrate an air research platform with aircraft for scientific experimentation and also unmanned aircraft, especially designed as research platforms in the civil field. In May – in return for elections – 45 million investments announced by the Board in this ICAR, the Air Transport Research Centre, 25 million for the recruitment of technological partners who would develop an investment plan, which would involve a production centre, job creation, etc., and 20 million more for the innovative public purchase of technology and for a research platform for civil applications, which would all become a tractor for new investments, favoring the improvement of Galician industrial competitiveness. We're in the BNG full of propaganda in the naval sector, in the farm, in the forest, in the fishing industry and also in the industrial sector. We have an industrial policy regulatory law that spoke of a Greek investment plan 2011-2015, which is now over, but our country's industrial policy continues to fall dramatically. We will also support this need for information and clarity on this subject, because we are also fed up with the continued deceptions of Mr. Feijóo and Mr. Rajoy. BNG has also asked the State Parliament about the issue of Rozas, because public properties were being used for the benefit of private companies without the economic impact or contribution of these companies, because, in addition, the information appearing did not clarify the serious doubts about the use of Rozas airport on military-type issues. BNG's concern grows because on 18 this month there were press headlines like the one who said: "A military drone is flying for the first time in Spain from Rozas; a recognition aircraft like those used in Afghanistan, which has built-in camera, Israeli manufacturing, large dimensions and capable of keeping up to 10 hours in the air."
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u94	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u95	I'll be done. Of course, the BNG always defends the promotion of technological development, the development of Euronautics, the creation of employment, the generation of knowledge in communication systems, in the Euronautics, in the naval and even in the forest, and even the creation of a civil use industrial pole, but the BNG essentially defends the principle of anti-imperialist solidarity, peace and disarmament in the international concert. We don't want Israeli military manufacturing aircraft used in Afghanistan that can be considered terrorist targets, we don't want them in Rozas. Therefore – finished – we will support this LNP which calls for information and clarity on the particular issue. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u96	Thank you very much, Mr. Pombo. Mr González Santín has the floor for the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u97	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, very good morning to all. This is not the first time in this forum to deal with the theme of the Rozas aerodrome; an aerodrome which, of course, in principle, should not have any kind of rejection or problem by the people of Castro de Rey – where he is – but which, however, is certainly generating doubts. In principle, what they're telling us is that they want to turn the Rozas aerodrome into an innovation center of unmanned planes that the Union itself said it was for civil and commercial uses, and they also drop into some media -- not so military. I believe that, of course, this part – that of the military – is what concerns the population, and I think that the Galician Union has to give an explanation about this. Obviously, it's announced now, which is election time, an investment of 45 million euros, we don't escape anyone who can be for other reasons, but, in any case, an investment of 45 million euros in one place, as I told them, like King's Castro, it's always good. However, this investment, which will take place, according to the Union itself, by 2020, is causing some concern in a sector which, in addition to 2020, has estimated investments in Europe of more than 65,000 million euros; that is, an auxiety sector. Of course, not only do you invest here, but there are investments by the state as well. We were announced 10 million euros by the Ministry of Industry and Competitiveness and also by the INTA, the National Institute of Aerospace Technique, which would be dedicated to the construction of a new hangar in Rozas, the action on the control tower and the acquisition of more modern media. I repeat, all this that should in principle be good news is becoming a concern for people. What's the cause? For the cause is nothing but the lack of information from the German Government. It is also intended that Rozas be recognized as a member of the European Strategic Forum for Infrastructure and Research, and companies such as Boyeng and Airbus said they intended to participate in this project as well. We also need to explain how this participation is going to be done and how this private participation is going to be done. The possibility that in Rozas we have military drones is worrying about people, but there are drones in the Rozas aerodrome is something that, of course, we understand that you don't have to have problems, because everyone knows that drones can be used for civilian uses and that they must also be used in such a way that everyone benefits; by setting some examples, here, for Galicia, for example, for forest surveillance, for fire prevention, or for tracking or detecting those people who cause fires, for controlling fishing resources or for avoiding theft on their backs. They can also be used for maritime rescue, mapping or emergency and disaster events. Even today it appeared in the press that the Galician Board had planned to buy 60,000 euros for these kinds of uses. So what's the problem with the drones? Of course, for me, the only problem with drones is the use that's going to be made of these devices, what they're going to use, whether it's for military use or for civil and commercial use. If we're talking about civilian or commercial use, of course, it doesn't have any kind of problem; if we're talking about military use, I think we should have an explanation. We are also talking about the creation of 50 direct jobs, which is also good for this municipality, but I repeat that one has to explain what will be done. The initiative presented by AGE is precisely this: he wants there to be an explanation of what will be done in this Rozas aerodrome. And what he's asking is to make public the contents of the convention signed by the Galician Council with the Ministry of Defence for the establishment of a base for the experimenting of drones. It is also requested that Junta clarify what economic resources – as well as their provenance – will invest in Rozas. It is also requested to report on the specifications and authorisations of the European State Aviation Safety Agency for testing with unmanned aircraft in the territory of Greece. It also publishes documentation and studies that give reason to the privatization of the unborn and called the Rose Research Center. And finally, to make public the criteria for the Investment Plan associated with privatization and Junta's forecasts for innovative public procurement linked to these types of drones. So, from the Socialist Party, we believe that the request made by the Left Gaga Alternative is more than reasonable, and we hope that it will be supported by all groups. We, of course, will support it. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u98	Thank you very much, Mr. Santín. The People's Group has the floor Mr. Castineira.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u99	Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. Ladies and gentlemen, I assure you that it is not necessary to be a Nobel prize to see the Official Gazette of the State, and you, Mr Santín, have just said that you add yourself, just like Mr Pombo and other colleagues and colleagues who spoke before me, to be clarified by the Board, to give clarity and publicity to the content of the agreement. What is the greatest publicity to be published in the Official State Gazette the entire agreement? Bulletin published. [[Applause]] Like I say, it doesn't have to be a Nobel prize. But this is no longer the first time that the same ones who bring this initiative, having published the State Gazette the same things, claim the same thing. So this initiative is presented on June 2nd, the Bulletin is from May 16th. Full agreement, with economic data, however. And, by the way, in clause 5a, it says: "Design the project's equipment and research and applications exclusively – I stress, exclusively – for civil use." This is what's here. [[Murmurs.]] Who's lying? Who manipulates? And you, Mr. Vázquez, said -- I think they should count around 20 times -- and repeated, "ministers," "ministers of Mr. Feijóo," "Mr. Feijóo if he goes," "the Board and the Government of Together lie, lie, lie" -- here he is. If you want, I'll leave you a copy, I'll tell you why it's more comfortable, but, of course, when a mind comes here with manipulations, asking for what's already published, which is what you bring on the initiative, ask the content of the agreement to be made public... They call for the content of the following contracts to be made public. I can also give you the publication in the official newspapers... calm down. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Calm down, Nobel Prize I know there's only one, and that's you, but calm down, please...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u100	No dialogue, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u101	No, no, don't worry. Look, I say what you put here, and this is signed, among others, by you, spokeswoman of AGE. See, Official Bulletin of the European Union of 3 June. Can you read? [[Mrs. Díaz Pérez speaks words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u102	Don't talk, please, Mr. Castineira.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u103	... Official June 4th State Gazette, June 3rd, where the bids of the 55 million come; that is, the bid of the tech partner. What's the matter? What's the matter? What do you want? But if you were invited as deputies, you were invited to the presentation, and some of you were on the presentation of the project in Castro de Rey! Ask the questions you want. There's no doubt, and don't forget that, indeed, last few days, there were 4 drones that were used for military use, but that they need and require, to change them for civilian use, certification and approval. Those who are used exclusively for military use don't need that authorization, so they don't have to... If you know what to ask, then. [[Mrs. Díaz Pérez speaks words that are not perceived.]] If you know it yourself... of course, indeed... [[Applause]] You make it clear, what happens is it's much better to manipulate. Why? Because the project being done in Castro de Rey – in Rozas – is a reality, the works are being done. It's not propaganda, Mr. Santín, propaganda was when that gentleman went, do you know?, a gentleman called Pepe Blanco, and Orozco, Beaster and Ricardo Varela, taking pictures of Rozas, when they proposed that they would create 5,000 or even 15,000 jobs for the recycling of planes. Do you remember that? I do, and the lights, too, and those of Castro de Rey, too, you know? So, do you remember that I was going to create...? And it's in the press, uh, there's no more to look at the hemerothecs, year 2005; then it was indeed before the elections, and of that I never knew again. There was, there was, there was, but recycling was...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u104	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u105	...–Yes, I will finish, Madam President–. But things have to be remembered. No, look, the ones who say that in Lugo don't invest, it's funny that right now a project that can serve to take off our province's technology, a pointer project in technology... by the way, AGE gentlemen, yesterday said their spokesperson was causing the escape of talent, and even down investments in R & D+i in our country, and it turns out that yesterday morning he says something and today they're asking the contrary. We are clearly betting for the investment in Rozas, we are betting for that investment to be made in the province of Lugo, near Lugo. Why? Because we're convinced that in a few years, Mr. Vázquez, you're going to be the same as those of the BNG: years ago the Atlantic highway was a knife; yesterday they came to ask the transfer of the state to Galicia. I hope within a few years they come to apologize to you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u106	Thank you very much, Mr. Castineiras. Author group of the proposal. Mr. Vázquez, from the bench, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u107	I am pleased that Mr. Castineira has finally set his face for Lugo, because, after his prolonged absences, he is involved in a problem affecting the province, but throughout Galicia, it is something worth celebrating. We read the Official State Gazette, it was a document we requested in writing; only for once they answered us did not read it! But you realize your stupidity, Mr. Castineira: you recognize that Searcher is a military drone. He said it here, didn't he? He said it was a military drone, he said, and he said they were doing evidence in Rozas to certify him for his civilian use. Am I right? Well, therefore, you recognize that drone is now military, that it doesn't have the certifications to be a civilian drone, does it? Did you recognise, therefore, that in Rozas a drone of military character is being used without certifications today for your civilian use, yes or no, Mr. Castineira?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u108	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u109	...Yes or no, Mr. Castineira? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] You recognize the facts, and you bring the proof, you have the shame of bringing the test by teaching a convention that authorizes the Government to which Rozas is used with drones – with unmanned planes – of a civil character. You taught it yourself. You have the political torpedoes yourself...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u110	Madam Oubina!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u111	...to refer to this model – to this Israeli-made drone – as a military drone that will be converted into a drone for civil purposes. Fear gives me when it's authorized, but that's another debate. The concrete and the truth is that you recognize, the majority group recognizes, that in Rozas a drone of a military character has been tested and is in the process of being certified to turn it into a drone of a civilian character. That's right, and you have to take it. He was talking about lies. There are lies and lies, but there are disguises as well. Today I imagine that, by chance, on the cover of all the media, a drone of the micro class comes out – of course!, 1 kilogram, or less than one kilogram, 8 kilograms or less weight...–, yes, of those used to distribute books – Amazon delivers books with drones – and even pizzas are distributed, yes, and if they do surveillance work... that's what is being done in Rozas! For that, you need a control tower with all the security systems, a runway and landing of more than one and a half kilometres... of course, that's what the Greek companies in the sector need, so they recognized it in that act in which you were present – yes, Mr. Castineira – where they said that everything that was being done in Rozas had nothing to do with or adjusted to their needs, and, as it is logical, a small Galician company that does a drone that is handled with a remote command doesn't need all that kind of investment. You know that and you can't take the hair from us, and much less from all citizenship, Mr. Castineira. You know it's like this... Besides, we didn't just ask for the agreement...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u112	Thank you very much, Mr Vázquez. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u113	You suppose I'd read the proposal not by law.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u114	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u115	We've asked for many more things. Give us the aeronautical certifications..
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u116	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u117	...which allow you to do those... And, by the way, we asked for a visit...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u118	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u119	...to the Rozas aerodrome in person by the Euro MP Couso, our voice and myself.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u120	Thank you very much, Mr Vázquez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u121	We're still waiting for the answer.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u122	Mr. Vázquez, if I call you the second time... in this case, there were no amendments tabled. You have a turn of words, I only ask you to buy the times. Thank you very much. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo, on the establishment of a parliamentary commission of research for the analysis of the operation and management of the Fundación Camilo José Cela, as well as the action to be carried out by the Government of Greece in this regard
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u123	This motion for a non-law amendment by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia was tabled.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u124	You have the floor, to formulate the non-law proposition, Mrs. Pontón Mondelo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u125	Good morning. I would like to begin by pointing out two previous issues which seem to us, since the BNG, to be important in this debate. The first is that, in fact, Camilo José Cela is a very controversial person, precisely because of political issues, because of his franchise past, even some people pointed him out as a reportinger in the blackest episodes. He was also a person who for a long time characterized himself by underestimating our language, our culture, and therefore that is also part of his history and personality. And it's also obvious that he's an author who is not part of the Greek literary system but is part of the Spanish literary system. Cell always wrote in Spanish and was a Nobel Prize in Spanish Literature, it was not a Nobel Prize in Galician Literature. I mean all this because, despite the fact that we could discuss this issue, today we are not talking about the figure of Cell and its meaning. Today, through this initiative, BNG wants to talk about how a lot of public money has been allocated – recorded by us, but there are many more who have come through the state, from foundations – we are talking about how minimal, in the last decade, more than three million euros of the archives of Greek institutions that have been stopping at the Cell Foundation. We believe that it is fundamental, that it is essential, because of transparency and because we are concerned that the money of the Greeks and the Greeks was allocated, that we do a thorough investigation into the use of that money, because it is, of course, for us – and we always denounce it – bochurnous, unjustifiable and scandalous the treatment of favor that the Fundación Camilo José Cela has had on the part of the Board of Galicia. We have made it clear that it has no meaning at this time to continue feeding with public money a foundation that is in decline, a foundation that is not fulfilling the purposes for those who were created and that really in itself the Foundation ceased to be a means to spread the work of an author to become an end in itself. It seems that the Foundation's maintenance is more important than the service and activity it is currently doing. That is why we propose today, through this initiative, two points: that we investigate what has been done with the public money that has been devoted to this foundation and also that we disengage ourselves from continuing to fatten and maintain a foundation that we believe is really useless right now. We say that the Foundation, instead of being a medium, has just become an end to perpetuating itself. We also believe, therefore, that there is an objectivity in this which we are saying. We can take, for example, the number of visitors that the Foundation has. If we go to the Patroado minutes, for example, in 2005, we were talking about these records that the Foundation had 12,000 visitors annually. The last data we have is 2012; there are 2,267 visitors in one year; that is, from 2005 to 2012 there has been a drop of more than 80%. We also see how there is a very low level of activity, because the Foundation ends up spending almost all the resources it has. We also see how in recent years he has been much more known for his scandals than for his outreach activities: all the legal problems for inheritance, a manager who collected more than the chairman of the Galician Board, the accusation of using public funds to be paying for activities in Madrid in the private house of Cela and Marina Castaño and the last episode is the trial that is currently open and that also affects a member of the Board of Auditors, former councillor of the People's Party, and that for us, of course, had already had to resign. But I think it's interesting about the self of this trial, because it also explains the derivatives of the use of public resources and which, therefore, the Galician Union is directly involved in this case as well. We are talking in particular about this car that we paid with public funds the compensation of this manager, who had, of course, a very well-paid salary, which, for a foundation that was broken, of course, it is surprising that one could maintain a person's salary of about EUR 100,000 per year. In any case, in this summary what we are told is that dismissal was not such but that the manager had requested at a meeting, where were Roberto Varela Farinha, Jesus Vázquez Abad and also Dositeo Rodríguez himself, who had been stopped; and in this car this question appears clearly. Tell us also not only what appears in the minutes – which, by the way, we could not see the minutes in which these issues were being commented – but also if you tell us how Covadonga Rodríguez – who is the current manager, daughter of Dositeo Rodríguez –, Marina Castaño, José Luis Delso and Dositeo Rodríguez, on 4-5-2010, consulting the letter of termination, say that it would be convenient to turn to the mediation and arbitration service – this is the consultation that Covadonga makes. Marina Castaño answers that he has already told Thomas, as president, that he himself will be the one who will arbitrate the formula of his dismissal, that there will be no agreement with anyone, since he fires him under his presidency, and that he has to do according to him and she decides. And he says textually, it seems, Marina Castaño, so he puts in this car: "The services he has provided to the Foundation for so many years make it deserving of unlimited generosity." How easy it is to be generous with public money, gentlemen! This, in addition, is much more serious because we know that compensation has been paid for public resources. But we also know that there is a grant law that literally says that a private entity, like the Cell Foundation, cannot receive public resources if it owes social security. We also know that the Board was aware of the debts of the Cell Foundation in 2010. But instead of applying the legality – which today called for here the President of the Galician Union – what he did was to grant him generous grants, by the way, with agreements that had intervention repairs to be signed and that they also had intervention repairs because they understood that the justification made of them did not correspond to the content of the agreement. So we're faced with a very serious fact that puts the focus on the need to investigate this. In the minutes that we were able to see from the Foundation, for example, there is another fact that has called us very much attention: to speak at a meeting of the Foundation with members of the Galician Union present – to see if I haven't lost the roles, that I don't want to be wrong – in 2004, when it is said that there was an exhibition that was financed with money from the Xacobeo and with public money from the Standard Council – hence, a finalist grant – and in which the manager says that they made a box because they didn't spend all the money that was recorded in that subsidy – 9,000 euros that said they had to be exceeded in relation to the grant. We also find it shocking that in agreements that were in theory intended to cover cultural activities, in this justification for these subsidies, that with those cultural money they had paid the flowers that were sent to the Cell cemetery, that we would pay carpets worth 1,500 euros, armchairs worth 5,000 euros, that we would pay tables and cushions and that we would pay things that do not have any justification that could be of culture. And much less understandable is that the Fundación Camilo José Cela has to go and buy cushions in Madrid. The truth is, it is very surprising that in Madrid's decoration shops, the Camilo José Cela Foundation is being furnished with money that had to go to culture. A whole exercise, from our point of view, of irregularities about how these subsidies have been justified and that they are just a very small part of the great scandal of how public resources have been used in this foundation. We're talking, ladies and gentlemen, about something very serious. We're talking about a foundation that has had a privilege deal that the Foundation itself recognizes. It's also interesting to see in 2003 an act of the Patroado where Álvarez Cascos is literally grateful for his contribution to getting funds to restore a part of the house where the Foundation's headquarters is now housed. And also, therefore, here we would like to know what the bonds and the treatment of favor are, and if there really was trafficking in interests in relation to the achievement of funds for this foundation. We ask for transparency and we also ask that no resources continue to be squandered to maintain a structure, as it is a foundation, which until today the only thing I have supposed was scandal and shame that we have dedicated more than three million euros to it in the last years of all the Greeks and the Greeks. We believe that it is absolutely reasonable what we are requesting today and that no one who is going to vote today will be against transparency in the use of public funds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u126	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Vázquez Blanco.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u127	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, today, once again there is the debate from this House about the situation of the Camilo José Cela Foundation, a foundation which is being investigated for a crime of misappropriation, fraud and misappropriation. In addition, within the framework of this investigation, the former councillor of Galicia and current member of the Board of Auditors, Dositeo Rodríguez, is charged with his connection with the dismissal of the former director and manager of this entity, Tomás Cabana, for considering that the said dismissal was simulated and paid with public funds without the consent of the administrations that financed the entity. A compact simulation that led to a redundancies agreement of 96,000 euros turning into 150,000. Who today is account advisor and by that then member of the Patronate appears in the documentation as advisor to the person who, with executive functions in the Foundation, orders, negotiates and commits this allegedly fraudulent exit of the previous director. But in addition, this person who performs these executive duties turns out to be the daughter of who was then a member of the Patroado and today account advisor, Dositeo Rodríguez. But in addition, to improve this account, one must remember that they were members of that patronate the Councillor of Culture and Tourism by that time, which today is councillor of Fairy and who was until there was little adviser of Education and now mayor of Ourense; people who represented the interests of the Board of Galicia and who approved this action by the executive bodies. In the judicial car, documented conversations are explained between people with executive functions and the Patronate to resolve a situation more appropriately and serve certain interests; interests that have to do with dismissal that justice qualifies as simulated and of what the judiciary claims that the people mentioned above were aware that it was not a dismissal. In addition, the self-Judicial collected that this was done without consent by the administrations that financed the entity; a statement that contrasts with the version offered by the member of the Board of Auditors charged, who states that this action was welcomed by the Galician Board in accordance with the plan of viability funded by public funds. All opposition groups have already denounced the situation in which the so-called Foundation and the darkism around everything that corresponds to its management. We asked the Councillor of Culture, Education and Universitary Order about this situation just two months ago, with the result of always: there is an ongoing judicial investigation and there is a need to wait and respect this research. But there is no concrete answer to all the questions that are open about the activities and functioning of this entity. He didn't give us any answer to the question of whether an entity in the public sector would actually be monitored for who is charged with an offence as a pattern of that entity at an earlier time. We have to remember once again that this foundation has belonged to the public sector since 2010, but what is interesting is that it does not appear in the budgets of the Union until 2013. And from this moment on, there is no excess of information, since the information contained in the budgets 2013, 2014 and 2015 is exactly the same, a photocopy of the previous document, without the Board making any repairs. We have already denounced the fact that there has not even been a memory of activities on neither the Galician Parliament nor the Foundation's own website, and there is a escurantism which extends over time. The problem is that 80% of the budget now amounts to EUR 258,000, and contributed by the Galician Union. In addition, currently, this foundation dedicates 70% of the budget to staff costs, and within these staff costs, of course, the corresponding to the Foundation's seven public employees, something about which Junta seems to have delayed information. And I'm saying this because we have an answer from the Presidency Council on May 22, where it's said that the Camilo José Cela Foundation has a hired person, although budget information deduced that there are seven hired persons. In view of the result that none of this has been accomplished and for all I have just exposed, the Socialist Group again considers that the Greek Government has to answer all the questions that are planned on this foundation. It therefore supports the first part of the initiative presented by the BNG on the establishment of a commission of research on the analysis of the operation and management of the Fundación Camilo José Cela. But we tabled an amendment to abolish the second point of this initiative, which calls on the Council of Galicia to untie this foundation. We believe that there are sufficient reasons to open an investigation after the statement here and for the failure to respond by the Government of the Union, but we also believe that it is not now time to talk about the title, because we believe that, despite what is happening, despite the suspicions of fraudulent management, of judicial investigation and even of the loss of visitors, we must not forget that we are talking about a foundation that manages the legacy and heritage of the winner of a Nobel Prize in Literature, and that the Foundation has a heritage that the Socialist Party considers to be necessary to protect. And all this without prejudice to clarify the situation of the Foundation, and even to rethink the Foundation itself. So we hope that our amendment will be accepted or that we can vote separately on the proposals so that we can support this initiative, which also seems necessary. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u128	Thank you, Mr. Vázquez Blanco. Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Iglesias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u129	Good morning, ladies. Good morning, President. Thank you. I share and it's very common to hear that in many cases reality exceeds fiction. The narrative of Mrs Pontón's explanatory statement of this LNP could be included in that category. This is the chronicle of a spook. In 1986, Cell is the foundation that bears its name, and has the purpose and will to store all its manuscripts, books, personal documents, along with artistic-pictorial works and various collections of all kinds. So far, well, normal. The Foundation, moreover, is Spain's richest. It has 61,700 books, 95,000 letters from 13,000 writers, manuscripts from authors such as Baroja and Lorca and 529 pictorial works, including 12 Picassos, 7 Miros and 8 Zabaletas. In 1991 the author married Marina Castaño's wife, a former speaker and an assiduous press clerk and heart programs. The Nobel Prize dies in 2002, and from there the widow, Mrs. Castaño, makes the Foundation what we could say her cork. And to such a point he makes his cork this foundation which – I would say with great disdain – increases the salary of his Madrid chauffeur to the account of the Foundation, which is supposed to be a non-profit institution. We're still smart, because it's really amazing that a gentleman who is the manager and who's called Tomás Cavanna Benet animates the employees and employees of the Foundation to whom, if they have a dog, they take him to the hairdresser – that's true –. In addition, this staff denounces that the Foundation's facilities are in a dire state and that the work is suffering from significant deterioration, because there are floods that endanger the armored camera, which stores 58 handwritten works. So the manager, Tomás Cavanna, decides to cover himself with plastics. This increases the risk of accumulating moisture. So the manager manages very badly. In addition, 18th century tables are hanging above a radiator that withstand 65-degree temperatures. Please! This is the scandal, which transcends the doors of the Foundation, and a neighbor who lives in front, Lola Ramos, alarmed by what happens there with the legacy, sends for a decade dossiers to Mr. Fraga – if so – to Mr. Núñez and to the former head of state, the former Bourbon. Can't get answer. But she insists, even though her lawyer gives her advice to give up, because she says to her, "Quit Lola, that the Cells are very supported." Lola comes to sell his car to cover the expenses of his struggle for decency; a sterile struggle until a prosecutor named García Ortiz sees criminal material in the alleged manoeuvres of Mrs. Castaño, the widow. He accuses her of paying off, through an interposed association, the VAT of millions of aids that the Foundation had received. So it is such the state in which this story is found that the Board, in 2010, intervenes to rescue the Foundation from an accountant agony and strips off the title of honorary president to Marina, who in turn – shame! – is declared ungracious in the Pattern. In 2012 Junta decrees the Foundation's public character, becoming under the direct custody of the Administration, but this after having received a lot of public funds. Besides, ladies and gentlemen, one day the President of the Government has strongly defended the Board of Auditors, the Board of Auditors, the Council of... then there is a member who was the Government of Mr. Manuel Fraga, who is called Dositeo Rodríguez, who was the head of the Foundation when all these facts occurred. And there's another story. This manager I've named before, named Tomás Cavanna Benet, bid him farewell – that this is being investigated as well – with an impressive compensation. But it turns out the guy's not fired; he gets compensation, but the layoff's not real. So there's an imputation for this, too. Impressive! –You have a mania with that of the redundancies, simulated layoffs, fired...; well, those things that you do—... Mr. Dositeo is involved in the connection with the false dismissal. And the story splinters your daughter, too. This is going to support the BNG initiative as a whole, because it's amazing, it's juicy, it's indecent and it's entrepreneurial. Please, gentlemen of the Government, do something, which is a shame to everyone. Thank you very much. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u130	Thank you, Mrs Iglesias. Parliamentary Group of the Alternative Left Gallega, Mr Ron.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u131	Good morning to all and to all. When he came down there he said: of course, it's all said, they told very well the BNG spokesperson and the people who preceded me. With this initiative, we are placed in the cultural philosophy of the right, in the cultural philosophy of the People's Party and the Executive of Nuñez Feijóo. A cultural policy that speaks of obscurantism, clientelism and favor politics, cacicate and nepotism. All we have to remember is the initiatives that we defend in the commission on the management of the Archaeological Park of Campo Lameiro, delivered to friends, or other archaeological fields, delivered directly to people who have sheep of the People's Party. So that's the policy you have with regard to culture: we're going to make a policy of favors with those who have our sheep. The attitude of the Italian Executive was irresponsible, and so it must be said, before assuming it as a public foundation, because the level of help received from this foundation has not received it from any of the other foundations dedicated to relevant individuals of our language – I repeat, our language –, our literature or our culture, who received as much as received from the Camilo José Cela Foundation. So there was already enough evidence to prove that public money was being misappropriated, if it was being misused. Well, but you're not happy about that, in the year 2010-2011, they give you more than half a million euros – more than twice as much as you received the Royal Galaga Academy that year for works – to take you to the public era, to take you to the public sector, so that the people of Greece will end up paying for the falcaterous of the friends of the People's Party. That's reduced. Of course, it seems to us an action full of irresponsibility and in which they should, of course, also assume their responsibility, which they won't do, because we know perfectly well that with this action what you do is silence. So, as we have already said here, we ask Dositeo Rodríguez, accused of alleged embezzlement of public funds, fraud with subsidies and misappropriation – and his daughter being in the direction of the entity – logically resigned from the Board of Auditors, which is something he has to do. We also asked from the Alternative Gaga de Left to investigate, to monitor, to have the Board of Auditors audit the Foundation's accounts, but logically, with this person within the Board of Auditors, it's like asking the fox to look after the chickens. What we want is that, ethically and cleanly, this person cannot remain there and that, of course, if he does the work to be done, for the sake of Greek culture. So the two principles set out in the non-law proposition of the Galician Nationalist Block share them. We therefore share the need to investigate, to investigate the use of public money, to use public money, because since 2007 there have been more than three million euros in public aid, and we want to know where that money was: if it went to the armchair, if it went to the hairdresser, if it went to cosmetic operations, etc. We want to know clearly because the Greeks and the Greeks don't deserve to pay for the fallouts of the People's Party's friends and friends. We therefore call on that commission of inquiry, to know perfectly everything, to fully monitor and to clear up the responsibilities and to lay down the appropriate measures so that it will not happen again. And secondly, we also support disunculation, because the Greek people don't have to continue to bear these actions that only some people benefit. We asked for disunculation for the benefit of the Greek people. And, moreover, this must not be at the expense of the care of the cultural heritage, because the duty of the Galician Union, the Council of Culture and the General Directorate of Heritage is to ensure the historical and cultural heritage of all Galicia, including the foundations. So it's not necessary, logically, to be public so that the Council of Galicia can carry out its task of monitoring, controlling and helping all foundations that defend our language, our literature and our culture are well. So we also defend that disunculation. Our support for this initiative. We hope that the People's Party will take a step forward this time and that it will simply take forward the initiative which had already been presented here in 2010 by the Galician Nationalist Block and that the 4th Commission, through the amendments, would be unanimously approved. And that is what the House of Representatives of Galicia says: to investigate. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u132	Thank you, Mr. Ron. People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Baamonde.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u133	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good morning, gentlemen. Before we take this initiative into consideration, let me think about it, Mrs. Pontón. Yesterday you were supporting an initiative that called for the inclusion of an author in the public system; today they are asking for the release of the public administration from a foundation related to another author. I will not take into account the work of Castelao or that of Cela – two colossus and two immense persons of Galician cultural history – but if I leave record, as I said yesterday and repeat today, that it seems to you that ideological adscription is a reason for making decisions in this matter. Not for us. [[Applause]] In relation, ladies and gentlemen, with this initiative, we agree that here is an extraordinarily transcendent issue such as the control of public expenditure. We agree that it must be the subject of debate and also that it must be the subject of explanations – as did the counsellor and the secretary of the counsellor's office in parliament and we, on that criterion, also try to do our position. But I'm sorry that an initiative of this transcendence actually arises in this House accompanied by a lot of fuss, a lot of confusion, a lot of noise, a little symphony, a lot of adjectives and a lot of nouns. You see, Mr. Ron said that this was an example of the cultural philosophy on the right; what you just did here now is also an example of the political modus operandi of the opposition, that is to say: building fantastic stories about mere hypotheses, building accusations about adjectives and not about nouns. In fact, the confusion that has been raised here makes it difficult for me to know exactly why this commission of inquiry is being asked; because, Mrs. Pontón, an investigation commission has to respond to a situation of serious breakdown of an institution or has to respond to a situation, at least, of a rational indication of serious irregularities or illegalities; and what you are raising here are – part of mere hypotheses – questions such as a commission of investigation in the care of the expenses of hairdressing, travel, mobile... You see, the routine and routine functioning of any institution can raise such doubts, but in no case can you motivate such a powerful reaction as a commission of inquiry; and you support it, Mrs. Pontón – and it is respectable to me but, of course, it is not a basis of anything – in pure rhetorical evidence, it is a pure rhetorical foundation that has no real support from any kind. Look, it's easy to contrast from the opposite point of view what you say: I think you put that request on the basis of three basic arguments, the first one, some supposed sumptuous expenses; Mrs. Pontón, that responds to the application of the viability plan that had to deal with the previous situation that the Foundation had. You speak of administrative irregularities in the granting of grants; since the Foundation has been made and the plan of viability has not been implemented, because the Foundation has never been in a debt situation either with the Administration or with Social Security, and the intervention repairs to which you make reference know perfectly that these are processing warnings that can and must be remedied as has been done. In fact, the only argument that could give some substantial factual support to your request is the dismissal of the manager who gave rise to a judicial action. At the moment – and to the reservations of that action – the manager's dismissal was made to ensure precisely the viability of the high wage he paid, and the cost of compensation is determined by that salary. But precisely, the fact that there is an ongoing judicial action makes it impossible for you to make your request for the preeminence of the criminal proceedings, which does not admit any other action which could interfere with the personal situation of the persons concerned and in the judicial proceedings themselves. Mr Rodríguez's actions and the situation of the Board of Auditors: there is no interference; the Council has sufficient mechanisms to solve problems of incompatibility either through abstention or through refusal. And, about the personal situation of Mr Dositeo, I repeat the evangelical mandate: pull the first stone that is free of guilt. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are not going to vote in favour of this request for a commission of inquiry. And with regard to the disunculation of the Foundation, as you see the vote, the importance of the Foundation reflected in it to Mrs. Churches and I make my own words: the Foundation's constitution was designed precisely to save this extraordinary legacy that represents the work of Cell; it was carried out through a parliamentary mandate promoted by the Socialist Party; and look, it was made by establishing a plan of viability that made it possible for today the situation to be healthy, debt-free, with a structure of more rational and balanced and accessible expenditure for all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u134	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u135	So we also join the amendment requested by the Socialist Party in that case; we understand that it does not proceed to disengagement. And I end up reminding them of Quixote that sometimes it seems like we should remember when Sancho said to Don Quixote, "Hey, they're not giants, they're mills." You often confuse the giants with the mills. Thank you very much and nothing more.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u136	Thank you, Mr. Baamonde. Replica from the author group of the non-legislation proposal, Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u137	Well, we could also quote Don Quixote again and tell him, "what a good squire if I had a good lord," and it could also be a proper date for today. I think, Mr. Baamonde, that comparing the Cell to Castelao is so indecent and so absurd that you yourself disqualify because, indeed, there are two people who, in the plane of what they meant to this country, are the antithesis. And, unfortunately, today what we see is like the People's Party – imaginatively because of an ideological issue – defends that a broken foundation – not for a good management, but for the defiling of public funds – is rescued and healed against what the legislation says, I don't know why interest; not for the legacy of Cell, because a portion of the legacy of Cell is not already preserved in that foundation, you have already broken with the unit and transferred it to the City of Culture – where, of course, many public resources are allocated to digitize those funds. So, what are we talking about here?, we're not talking about the legacy of Cell, we're talking about why you're sanitizing with public funds a private foundation that, in addition, has so many resources that nothing has to do with the work of Cell – as I suppose it is the Picasso or the Miró –. I imagine this has nothing to do with the work of Cell, but with the private business of a family and the interests of a family and how it's saving itself with public funds. Look, we're not talking about anything here, we're talking about very specific facts. I have in my hand a document that is – all in Spanish, of course, not going to be – The agreement between the Galician Union and the José Cela Camilo Foundation to establish the Foundation's plan of viability, of the year 2010. You know what this deal says? It says: "in particular, the debt accumulated by the Foundation with suppliers of 2009, and outstanding payment, was at the end of the financial year to EUR 40,000." And there's a footnote: "In addition to the expenses for the December 2009 social contributions and the fourth quarter IRPF retentions" – which are in total more than 25,000 euros–. You know what the Grants Act says, it also applies to a private foundation and to the resources you have to receive in connection with agreements, because it says that in order to receive public resources you have to believe that you have no debt to social security. And do you think it's normal for this law to be ignored and that this year gives half a million euros, against what the Vigilant Legislation says? It just seems absolutely amazing to me. There is a summary – which today does not give me time to read what is left – that says there was no dismissal, but there was a pact in which the manager was going to leave the Foundation; and this is so no 2009, at a meeting where members of the board of Galicia – please allow me, because I believe this is relevant to the debate – the manager said: "On the same day of the inauguration he proposed his departure to Cell by considering that he had already successfully completed the work for which he had been hired, but Cela asked him to remain in office"; he said: "After successfully passing the evaluations required for the BIC declaration, he was convinced that his second personal commitment to Mr. Cela had also been fulfilled and was re-appropriate in the same conditions as last April rejected the employees who proposed them. He asked, in any case, that the decision should be delayed until he finished ordering the personal roles of Cell, since for many years he was very close to the figure of the founder, represented him in his family trials and received, after his death, his confidential roles...", "asking that he be released as soon as possible...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u138	Thank you. Thank you, Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u139	...of his responsibilities as managing director."
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u140	Thank you. Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u141	And we paid compensation with public funds, and we paid the Cell Foundation lawyers, and we paid absolutely the indecent waste...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u142	Mrs. Pontón, your time is up. Don't make me take your word.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u143	...with public funds. And they tell us we're talking about their position, what they're going to have to explain to us is why they don't want...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u144	Your time is up, Mrs. Pontón. It's over. [[Mrs. Pontón Mondelo speaks words that are not perceived.]] Thank you. [[Applause]] G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. on the action to be taken in relation to the economic crisis situation of the European Union
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u145	This motion for a non-law amendment by the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block of Wales was tabled.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u146	Mr. Beiras has the floor for the defense of the non-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u147	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. I must confess to them, to begin with, that I feel an enormously strange feeling; at the bottom I am ashamed, something as if I had to defend before the Inquisition court that is the Earth that is turning around the Sun and not the Sun around the Earth, or that the theory of relativity –partial and general – remains vigilant, or affirming and trying to defend the validity of the foundations of macroeconomics. Against whom?, in the face of all that gives him the turn and therefore also in the absurd situation in which we must be those of the opposition that we defend citizens while governments – against all logic, against all rationality, against absolutely the most fundamental scientific, social foundations, and against the evidences of the implementation of policies with the results absolutely at sight – because they continue to apply the slogans and dictates of plutocracy against the citizens themselves. So it turns out that we have to be doing what the Government should do, and the Government is doing what they're doing is what they send it from above – violating, insisting, any element of rationality. So I'm ashamed, because I have to defend this in Parliament, which is the House of Representatives, because it is frankly shameful, right? And I must also confess that, in the face of this situation last week, following the news from TeleSUR – the Latin American television station – and the broadcast of Pope Francis' travel, because I could hear Pope Francis' intervention directly before the United Nations, and then I've been crossed all the cables; because it will turn out that here, a party that is in the Government, confessionally – or almost confessionally – Catholic, apostolic and Roman, composed on average by a certain religious organization called Opus Dei, it turns out that he is applying what Pope Francis in the Nations denounces as absolutely contrary to the moral, ethical, decency and Christian doctrine, social, about citizens. I read to them: "The experience of these seventy years shows that there is a constant need for reform and adaptation to the times, moving towards the ultimate goal that is to give all countries, without exception, a real and explanatory participation and impact on decisions." "All countries without exception," that is, I suppose the countries of southern Europe, the lazy ones and so on, also in the decisions that the Eurogroup makes, for example. "This need for greater equity is especially true in bodies with real executive capacity, such as the Security Council, financial bodies and groups or mechanisms specifically created to deal with economic crises." "International financial agencies must ensure the sustainable development of countries, avoiding a suffocating subjection of those countries to credit systems that, far from promoting progress, subject populations to mechanisms of greater poverty, exclusion and dependence." Well, you will have to debate not with me, but with Pope Francis. I wish you luck because, of course, you have very good arguments. The situation is so terrible, and so absolutely irrational, that Oskar Lafontaine – who is not Marxist-Leninist – in an article entitled "What can we learn from blackmailing the Syriza Government?" he said, "I am in favour of a European currency system that takes account of the experiences learned from this monetary system, and that with its construction it benefits all the countries that are part of it. The European monetary system has worked for many years, not without difficulties, but better than the single currency. Despite the inevitable tensions, it has allowed commitments over and over again to help offset the various economic developments, and that is because the central banks of the Member States were obliged – unfortunately only for a short period of time – to stabilize the exchange courses of the partners of the European monetary system. Within the euro only Spanish, Greek or Irish workers and pensioners, too, the Germans of precariousness, "are charged with the weight of internal devaluation by reducing wages, cutting pensions and raising taxes." Well, all this is still like this, every time we say it from here – either from the Socialist Group, whether it's the Galician Nationalist Block, the Mixed Group, or the Left Galician Alternative – from there they come out saying that all this "it's okay!, it goes, at all!Ssh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh By the way Oskar Lafontaine is an idiot and you are absolutely wise, the man who was the finance minister of the SPD in the German Government until the time the SPD took the turn to assume ultraliberal policies, and Oskar Lafontaine naturally resigned and participated in the foundation of Die Linke. But in addition to that, it turns out that James Galbraith, in an article also, this even more recent, of August... Of course, James Galbraith I suppose they know all his lordships who he is, John Kenneth Galbraith's son etc., etc., and the author of the best study on the process of aggravated inequality in the 2000s – recognised by all the people who have talent in the world–. For in that article I wrote the following – I short the reading because, if not, I won't have time – "Last 8 June I had the honour to accompany that Greek finance minister Varofakis in a meeting with the German finance minister Wolfgang Schäuble", you know that Wolfgang Schäuble, this disguised Nazi, which we will be able to perfectly match mutatis mutandis with Walter Funk – they don't have to know who you are because you are not economists, you don't have to know economy, but Walter Funk was Hitler's minister of Economy and Finance between 1937 and 1945, made the most valuable things – of course, he saved himself from the tribunes of Nuremberg, which I know – because the next day, the second honour was to offer the chocolate coin – because they are offered to a third former finance minister – to Professor Giuseppe Guarino, the Dean of Constitutionalists and author of an impactant book on European treaties and the euro. Professor Guarino's thesis reads: "The first of January 1999 was a coup d'état against the Member States of the European Union, against their citizens and against the European Union itself. The blow was not delivered by force, but by fraudulent cunning through Regularization 1466/97. The role assigned by the treaty –Articles 102, 103, 104C – to the goal of growth pursued by the political activity of the Member States is eliminated and replaced by the result, namely: medium-term budgetary balance. Direct consequence of this: democratic institutions contemplated by the constitutional order of each country are no longer of any purpose; political parties can no longer exercise the slightest influence; strikes and industrial closures no longer have the slightest effect; violent demonstrations cause additional damage but leave intact the political defaults." These words were written in 2013. And Galbraith says, "Can anyone doubt today its accuracy and its perfect applicability to the Greek case?" I suppose they won't think Galbraith is an anti-democratic. But there's more, and I'm just doing monkey, ventriloquous characters that have a very clear international solvency, and they've been in this whole thing, right? Yanis Varofakis, in August 2015, was invited by Arnaud Montebourg – former Prime Minister of Government Industry of Holland, discontinued by Prime Minister Manuel Valls in August 2004 – to participate in the Rose Festival in Frangy-en-Bresse. All right. In that speech he says, he says, "The elections can't change anything." According to Mr Schäuble, that at the first meeting with the Eurogroup, he suggested reaching an agreement that would meet the obligations with regard to the Eurozone, but at the same time respect what had been voted on by the Greek citizens when they voted for the government in Syriza. And he says, "The German finance minister immediately intervened. Elections can't change anything, if every time there's a choice the rules change, the euro zone can't work."
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u148	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u149	Yes, I'm done. This means the abolition of democratic principles by a policy in which it turns out that the decisions of a Eurogroup, which has not been elected by anyone, who doesn't even have written regulations, which still works informally, but that's what it commands... If that's not a totalitarian regime within the European Union, what is the star? So I end by saying that, in view of that – although I could not explain more than one part of the issues that would actually be not of my harvest, but of this harvest taken from other important characters, they are not my arguments – there is a modest proposal of the year 2013 that goes on a line that would be perfectly applicable today, and we don't know if it would be acceptable for the Government of the State to assume it. If I may, I end with an appointment, this time by Jean-Luc Mélenchon, who simply says, "The discussion about the single currency is therefore not a technical discussion, and I don't in any way summarize the task that we have to perform. It's just one aspect of the problem that the key is somewhere else. Who decides in Europe and where we are?"In France, "The income or work, the people or oligarchy, the Central Bank or citizens, Germany or the free union of free peoples?"
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u150	Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Beers.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u151	You seem to be on the well-defined side that free peoples do not exist, and that citizens are not complicit in a political regime in the European Union that is loading the most basic principles of popular and national sovereignty.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u152	Thank you, Mr. Beers. Your time is up. For the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mr. Jorquera.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u153	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. We fully agree with the diagnosis that the group is proposing on the consequences of so-called austerity policies and, in addition, the diagnosis that Mr Beiras has just made about what is happening in the European Union. A policy of austerity which is totally ineffective for real recovery, and which, in addition, has only contributed to exacerbate inequalities, brutally accentuate inequalities from the social point of view, and inequalities also between the centre and the periphery of the European Union. We suffered from him, too, and possibly even more accused in Galicia. The gap between Galicia and Spain and Europe, our demographic and economic decline, has been sharply accentuated in recent years. We also agreed in support of the struggle of the Greek people, for something as elementary as the right to the future, because Troika's policies deny it all hope for the future. We regret that the Greek Government's negotiation with the Troika ended – as Varofakis himself said, one of the signatories of the reference documents of this proposal – in a coup d'état where banks were used instead of tanks, so Mr Varofakis has just said, in an article in "The Guardian", that Troika is the true winner of the Greek elections. A victory for the Troika that leaves several elements for reflection: are other policies possible without questioning the model of the European Union?, is it possible for the people of the periphery to have another exit without questioning the single currency?, is it possible for the Greek people, the Portuguese people, the Greek people – of course – to have a future right without renationalizing policies, without regaining sovereignty? –and, in our case, without the conquest of sovereignty?, for the Greek people have always been denied sovereignty. But as much as we disagree with the frame, as long as the frame doesn't change, we have to explore all the possibilities for making different policies. That's why we value the efforts of Varofakis, Hollande, Galbraith, to propose other solutions. Although we believe that without profound changes in the Maastricht Treaty, or with a thorough review of the role of the European Central Bank, the margin is enormously limited. But, when we come into this matter, some of the proposals contained in the modest proposal to resolve the Eurozone crisis offer us – and I say it with all sincerity – doubt, and others we believe that they are outdated. That's why we tabled an amendment with a very generic formulation to make the agreement possible. It must be borne in mind that the document referred to in the proposal is July 2013, which is why they lost proposals that lost vigilance, or even ended up being applied in a similar way by the European Union. And practice has shown us that they are totally insufficient; for example, with regard to the debt problem, the start-up of the quantitative relief – planned for March 2016 – has similarities with some of the proposals contained in the document. With regard to the Investment Plan, the Juncker Plan will go further, because in addition to being financed in EUR 5 billion by the EIB, it will also be financed by the Community budget and those countries that want to contribute. And different mechanisms have also been put in place in the social field, but all of these are patches, they don't solve the fundamental problems, because fundamental problems are not achievable until there's a radical shift in the orientation of economic policies. But, above all, we disagree with the proposals to solve the banking crisis; it suggests that states can give up their right to supervise and rescue banks in bankruptcy, and that banks that need recapitalisation of the MEDE become directly dependent on it. And this does not differ so much from what has been done, and the consequence for Galicia is well known: the loss of a financial sector itself and the acceleration of the expatriation process of our savings. For these reasons we have tabled this amendment, for many reasons – and I want to emphasize it – that we fully and absolutely agree with the substantive analysis of the proposed group, and I believe that we also agree with the need for radical change in the orientation of economic policies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u154	Thank you, Mr. Jorquera. Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Iglesias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u155	Thank you, President. Good day again. This initiative is based on an article on macroeconomics in November 2010, which Varofakis and Stuard Holland, a former Labour Party deputy and professor of economics at the University of Coimbra, published under the name of A modest proposal to overcome the crisis. They've spent five years since their publication, and yet they've changed a lot of things, I'd say the worst. In 2012 – three years ago – Varufakis publishes – this political charismatic – The global minotaur, in which it develops for many experts the best theoretical and economic explanation of the evolution of capitalism over the past six decades and in which it exposes in a broader way each of the points of the article mentioned above and which are the source of this initiative that we are discussing. The global minotaur, of which I have to say that I started reading it in the summer, surprised me very gladly because it uses all of it the female, the female grammatical. It was a pleasant surprise because in this work – according to me – Yanis Varufakis destroys the myth that financing, ineffective regulation of banks and globalization are the causes of the economic crisis, and consider them the result of a phenomenon that was born in the 1970s, the global minotaur. The gigantic and continuous flow of capital towards the US economy to finance its twin deficits, the public sector and the balance of payments, are one of the main features that define, according to Varufakis, the neoliberal period of capitalism. This massive recycling of capital that feeds the minotaur, in this case the United States, stood on the process of globalisation and financing. Both the Greeks and the rest of the world kept a steady stream of tributes to the beast, sending large sums of capital to the United States and Wall Street, turning the global minotaur into the engine of the economy. The crisis in Europe, the debates on austerity in the face of fiscal stimuli in the United States and the clash between the Chinese authorities and the Obama Government on exchange rates are the results of an unsustainable and uncompensated system. And it explains Varufakis what to do to return to a minimum of wisdom with an irrational system. Basically, the idea of Varofakis is to cure the European sick with a series of complex but uninvasive interventions, something like operating the European sufferer by arthroscopy, without modifying the treaties, without contravention of the laws and without seeking a programme of maximums. The European debate – according to this professor – was monopolized by false dilemmas: stability/growth; austerity/stimulation; national sovereignty/federalism. False dilemmas that hinder a change of perspective. Europe – according to Varufakis and the economists who support it – must decentralise itself and aspire to a quiet revolution, use institutions in a different way, granting the European Central Bank, the European Investment Bank and the new stability and financing mechanisms attributions: sovereign debt conversion programmes, a strong investment programme funded through the European Investment Bank, customised banking solutions, and finally a solidarity social emergency programme. What Varufakis and the accompanying economists have promoted, who share this theory, is: in the face of maximalist positions, a use of the European Union's internal rules, those that do it unfairly, but without leading to a real revolution that would lengthen the process to infinite. The proposals of this economist that AGE brings to plenary are realistic, focused on mitigating each dimension that identifies the crisis: the banking dimension, debts, investments and the social dimension. In addition, they are not proposals that can be classified as prophetic, ruptureist or revolutionary; they are more realistic and coherent alternatives to, if not to solve, if to mitigate the crisis of the eurozone. This could be the initiative that Europe needs, so that it can enter the maze of Troika until it kills that minotaur who in the euro area takes the form of austerity policies. That is why this honourable Member will vote in favour, but I must say that despite my personal disappointment with the Government of Tsipras. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u156	Thank you, Mrs Iglesias. Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, Mr González Santín.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u157	Thank you, President. This initiative presented by the Glaga Alternative of the Left calls on the Galician Parliament to call on the Government of the State to promote to the European Union bodies the adoption of a macroeconomic policy strategy to resolve the current crisis. To that end, he presented a study signed by three renowned economists, who also had political responsibilities: Galbraith, American, who worked on the Economic Committee of the United States Congress; Holland, who was British parliamentarian for ten years; and Greek Varufakis, who recently ceased to be Greek Economy Minister with Syriza. In the background, the study presented here is what you are saying is that the policies that are being pursued – these austerity policies that are leading to the European Union – are not the policies that have to be taken out of this crisis. It is the summary that, of course, I draw from this study. Many other studies could be used. And here too in this gallery we talked about articles by economists also of prestige that they said so. This study proposes a number of measures that can be taken within the legal framework of the European Union – I want to highlight this because we are talking about minimum measures, i.e. without modifying the legal framework – that what they are about to tackle this crisis situation. It speaks of a banking subcrisis that arose in the United States, but that has affected Europe more seriously than the United States itself. And he speaks of a situation that we have commented on in this gallery many times: that we have a Central Bank without government and a Government without Central Bank. And it proposes a series of measures to support this subcrisis, such as that the Central Bank and the European Stability Mechanism have oversight and, in their case, the rescue of banks with difficulties. It also speaks of a second subcrisis, of the subcrisis of debt, caused by the principle of maintaining perfectly separate public debts in the eurozone – something really curious. We're talking about a monetary union, an economic union, but debts are independent, with independent types each. Maastricht – as you all know – has allowed a limit of 60% of GDP, which has been widely used. Well, this study also intends that the Central Bank should pay its debt for the debt allowed in Maastricht, which assumes the bank. It also speaks of a crisis of investments that has happened. Curiously, in places where there are most problems, where the crisis affects the most, it should be where you invest the most. Interestingly, in all this process, the opposite has happened: that in the areas that most need that investment was where it was most uninvestted. And it is therefore requested that the European Union launch a new investment programme to alleviate the recession and increase the confidence of the private sector. In addition, they explain that the appropriations for financing these investments should not count as national debt from different countries. And finally, he's also talking about a social subcrisis. These years of austerity have led to a reality that no one can argue: that millions of Europeans have lost access to basic goods, that unemployment has been fired, that many have lost their homes, and that most of these people now depend on social assistance. The study therefore proposes a social emergency solidarity program to ensure access to food and basic energy needs. Well, the Socialist Party, of course, fully coincides with the analysis of this study and shares the proposed measures, although we understand that this is not new. In 2010 we presented a document – which I bring to them here – entitled Reactivate the economy to combat unemployment. Many of these measures have already appeared in this document, and others that we believe are necessary to get out of the crisis. That is why we will support this initiative, which we believe should include another series of measures applied directly to Spain which would, of course, improve what is happening here. For us not to get out of the crisis, but we have to get out – and this for us is very important – with the least possible inequality – something fundamental. We in this study that I was commenting on included some measures, such as that the financing of the European Central Bank actually reaches businesses and households, that specific employment and investment plans are developed with a specific plan for agrarian employment and a new youth employment policy, which involves a reform plan that sets targets and investments, but in a given time frame, do not leave it in the air, or forward the programme that derives from the new financial framework 2014-2020. Another of the measures we also believe is that the Emergency Fund against Poverty is distributed as fairly as possible through municipalities, autonomous communities or NGOs. Of course – I am finished, President – by setting an example. I'm telling you, I also recommend this study -- a study that I think can also be illustrative, although we don't present it on an initiative. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u158	Thank you, Mr. González Santín. People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Arias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u159	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have to make an explanation of what we are going to vote on, because Mr Beers has really not done it explicitly; that is, he has said that we had to adopt a modest proposal, but exactly the point we have to adopt is: "Request the Spanish Central Government" – that is, the Parliament of Galicia is asking the Spanish Central Government – "promoting before the bodies of institutional power of the EU" – that is, we address the Government, the EU Government – ", starting with its council of Heads of State Government" – for them – ", the adoption of a strategy of economic policy aimed at solving the current crisis, based" – based on what? – "in the diagnosis" – "and on the cardinal lines of economic policies contained in the document entitled A modest proposal to solve the crisis of the eurozone" – which is attached–. That is, they tell us that we use an article by three economists produced in 2013, version 4.0, to take it to the central government, the central government to the European parliamentarians – which, in some ways, we first disqualify them to say exactly what?, what does this document say?–... Well, in the operative part of the Glaga de Left what it says is that we have to fight against austerity, point one. Secondly, he argues, based on all the speeches of Alexis Tsipras – current President of the Government and referendum in Greece –, the justification, the diagnosis, the problem of Greece, the problem of Europe, etc. And secondly, they tell us that we support the modest proposal. A really minimalist title, Mr. Beiras, because the modest proposal is nothing more and nothing less than the proposal of a new deal for Europe. I mean, in a few small leaflets, in a number of leaflets, he proposed everything that was proposed in the United States in 1933 by President Roosevelt to get out of the global economic crisis, starting with the United States. It's a metaproposal; it's megalomania covered with literary minimalism, but it's really nothing. So, really, what does this say? There's one thing, he says, they'd like to do other things. But my attention is drawn to this: that, when it comes to an article – because it is a magazine article in some way – because we, the Greek Parliament, say, do not have three economists enough at the European Studies Centre, in the faculties, etc., to do a role that I will try to prove that it is very simple and wrong, technically speaking? Aren't there three German economists to bring here, Mr. Beers? Do we need to get an article from 2013 from Minister Varufakis, who is a professor at the University of Athens, with a professor at the University of Texas and with another English teacher? Don't we have enough English here? There are three Spanish economists? But if there are some professors at London School, for example, and even a lot of Greeks everywhere. But, well, I don't think it's very appropriate. And what he tells us is this: firstly, it's an internationalist article, not a nationalist -- what he missed me -- because what they're defending here is that they take away the powers of financial regulation from nations and states; they clearly say it when they say that they have to take out the legal powers of states and give them to Mede. Mede is the mechanism of financial stability that is formed by governors and in turn representatives of the state, but ruling in Europe; that is, denationalizing financial policy. I find it rather incoherent to me that we, a Greek economists, are going to say from the Galician Parliament, deprive Spain of financial competence in the resolution of the banking crisis. I don't understand how you can say this. Secondly, there is no analysis of why Greece is the most indebted, of second Spain, etc., of what is the process of indebtedness and how it comes out of a process of indebtedness. It is a document without quantitative and budgetary figures where it is removed. Only an institutional design is given, which is what is working, which has already been operating in the European Union, but has nothing new; it is really a pure media economy. This is pure media economy, not economic theory. It then says that it is financed by the European Investment Bank and the European Investment Fund, which is a venture capital fund, and that a system of validation of public government debt is produced; that the European Central Bank takes them, uses Maastricht mechanisms, converts them into bonds and, in addition, those bonds must be self-financed, which is the biggest problem. How? Usually, then to fund...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u160	It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u161	...all the assumptions... I've spent my time. Logically, it doesn't give me time, and nothing else. I mean, for these reasons, we cannot vote for this proposal, for this kind of scientific basis. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u162	Thank you, Mr. Arias. Replica from the author group of the non-law proposition, Mr. Beiras.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u163	Yes, briefly. First, I would like to thank the speakers and spokespersons, comrade Jorquera, Carmen Iglesias and González Santín who, of course, understood this matter. They didn't find out from there, but it's the usual thing. Besides, I appreciate the amendment of the BNG, which updates things, because what it was about was not making a detailed proposal for economic policy. There's a key here, but they don't know about it. The modest proposition already at the moment and then what Varufakis did in his management as minister was to play in provoking a paradox. The paradox consisted of the following: that precisely those considered rebels before the European Union were making proposals that defend the European Union – not as it is now – that they even defend monetary union and try to save the euro and the euro area, while Troika destroys the European Union and destroys monetary union. On the one hand, the modest proposal respects the rules of treaties, that is, it cannot be more considered, we do not intend to do anything; it shows that within the treaties we can do otherwise, and, on the other hand, the Troika violates its own rules, and of course, the Eurogroup lacks standards, as it is demonstrated when it turns out that it has become evident that it has not even had a functioning regulation, and it is those who make decisions. I don't know if Mr. Arias is worth something or not, but he wasn't worth it for a long time now and so on, and you're still as well. They're doing great. I believe it was a success that at least this debate on fundamental issues had been sparked, and not only took the radish by the leaves, which is what they usually do to some who cannot feed themselves. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u164	Thank you, Mr. Beers. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of Mr Ricardo Vicente Docasar Docasar and two other Members, on the actions to be carried out in Galician Union in order to slow down the implementation schedule of LOMCE
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u165	This motion for a non-law has been tabled amendments by the Joint Parliamentary Group and the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u166	Mr Docasar has the floor for the defence of the proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u167	All right, thank you, president. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. And thank you, Counselor, for being here, you always take care of those details and please yourself. The Socialist Group was tremendously critical throughout the process of developing and implementing LOMCE both in Spain and here in Galicia. We understand at the moment and we continue to understand today that this country has lost a magnificent opportunity to once and for all provide the education system with stability; a question which, of course, has long been demanding with great insistence the whole educational community of this country, with the illusion of preventing educational laws from changing each time a change of government takes place. The Socialist Group has always considered that, despite what has been stated with very little rigour, our education system has improved significantly in recent years, and perhaps so bad it should not be when our titles are so well received in foreign countries. During this time there have been several issues that have sparked great controversy in the educational community of Galicia: a precipitated calendar of implementation of the law and of the new primary curricula, ESO, baccalaureate and basic FP, and all that has entailed for the purpose of organizing and operating our educational centers; political chaotic textbooks; or the beginning of famous revals, for setting only a few very significant examples. The Socialist Group has also recently come up with some information from different leaders of educational institutions in relation to the rights granted to them by the new education law and which, curiously, are not being applied, giving the impression that the Greek Government applies the new law to it. And that's what I'm going to talk about during my speech, and more specifically about certain aspects covered by Articles 122 and 122a of the LOMCE itself and which have to do with self-management of the centres themselves. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Group, you have worked very hard to put in place this new educational law that almost no one wanted and to do – I insist – in a hasty, run-down and frank manner. And the objective data I'm sending, because they're in sight of the educational community as a whole. There is no precedent in our democratic history of the implementation of an educational law in such a hasty, chaotic and fearful manner. You've precipitated the past course of primary and basic FP curricula, and you've just done the same in this course with high school and bachelor's decrees. I mean, they started in just over a year the whole primary, the basic FP, almost all high school and first bachelor's degree. And you should know, because you have experience of government, that such a hasty deployment would put the whole educational community together in enormous difficulties, although that seemed to matter very little to them. The Socialist Group warned Mr Román Rodríguez in this same Parliament in June that there would be numerous organizational problems of such implementation, and the facts now give us a sad reason. The late adoption and publication in the CEO of the High School and Bachelor's Decree brought real difficulties to develop schedules, didactic programming and even for registration in the centers, generating even conflicts between the teaching departments themselves, because they did not have any material time to discuss in the clauses this new situation. Here we also have the chaos generated with the textbooks by cohabiting books of two different laws, by cohabiting booksbanks of the ANPAs and the Council itself with the so-called free solidarity model Feijóo. Ladies and gentlemen, I was wondering in June what powerful reasons there might be to subject the whole educational system to a similar situation, and I was only able, Counselor, to find an explanation: you were in a great hurry to implement LOMCE because you knew and know it's a law with a clear date of expiry. He was trying above all to leave everything tied and well tied before you lose your election in December. I asked Mr Roman at the plenary session of this Parliament, in June, to address the Government of Spain so that he would urgently convene the Sectoral Conference on Education, since all the new self-governing governments were already formed from the elections held on May 24. The idea was precisely to share with the new autonomous governments out of the 24 May polls what to do; to know whether the People's Party was willing to stop or at least slow down the LOMCE deployment schedule that were demanding 12 out of the 17 autonomous communities, or whether they were opting, as they chose, to continue with the dreaded implementation schedule, even knowing that this calendar was literally suffocating the entire educational community in the country. I also told Mr. Román in June, to try to convince him – I'm jealous of myself – that they had not forgotten that the autonomic map had changed radically, since the last elections had changed many governments by hand, and already you only ruled in 5 of the 17 autonomous communities; therefore, the change was substantial. Unfortunately, the People's Party didn't listen to me, it went through the middle of the summer, and here we're still going wrong with this dreaded LOMCE deployment calendar. You didn't do it, and now we have a general election at the end of the year, where everything points to what the government will change. It will be, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, the time to correct the folly that you have done. It will be time to make a new education law with broad social and political consensus, and with real ability to last over time – and I already announce to you that, if we cannot do so by counting on you, we will have to do it without counting on you. It will be time to start the way to reach an education investment of 7% of GDP in eight years, as we have promised in the Socialist Party. It will be time to start recovering the nearly 400 million euros lost in Welsh education. It will be time to start gradually re-establishing the working and professional conditions seized by the teaching group. It will also be time to start gradually re-establishing the lost squares of teachers, convening a powerful public job offer in 2016. It will be time to put in place a plan to improve the facilities of educational centres and to renew teaching equipment, mainly computer equipment. It's time to get to work to correct seriously and not by autobomb the digital divide between centers, according to their geographic location, as they are in cities or in rural areas. It will be time to provide with the resources promised to the educational centres that have implemented the basic FP a year ago and that still today, Counsellor, have not seen a single euro. It will also be time to guarantee and to know if we are able to ensure that no child or child of compulsory education assists the class without textbooks and school materials. It will be time to check whether the educational centres recover their departures for their operating expenses. And it's also time to find out if the three universities in Greece have a new funding plan that guarantees quality and public service. I have always supported – and I support today – that there are no magic recipes in education. In education there is constant and sustained work in time. We need resources, but above all, we need to look after and respect our teacher, because without him there is no miraculous reform that improves the education system. I'm the one who thinks that, despite what has been stated with very little rigour, our education system has improved in recent years. What's happening now, which we are already Southern Germany, is gradually recovering the educational budgets that have been lost during the crisis. You were meant by the new law's implementation to reach even more privatization quotas in our educational system, and to blame the same thing as little or nothing has to do with it. Or is the current education system responsible for the country's unemployment or for not properly trained personal skills for our productive tissue? Just look at how our foreign titles are received to realize that this is a real fallacy. I want to finish, ladies and gentlemen, by saying that LOMCE has suffered a direct attack on the floating line of this country's public school. For socialists this is clearly a red line that you have passed without complexes, and you have to know that the Socialist Party will remember. So, what do we ask for today? We ask them to slow down – and I insist on the word ra-len-ti-zar – the implementation calendar of LOMCE, to negotiate with the rest of autonomous communities this matter, while there is no new law. And we also ask them to comply in the meantime with certain aspects of Article 122 of the LOMCE itself if they want to seriously promote the autonomy of management of the centers, which both proclaim with their small mouth, and do not limit that supposed autonomy to manage the temporals in winter when cycles of cyclogenesis come. So, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, they have an opportunity to do the educational community a favor, to listen once in a while, even if it is sometimes – I think it's not wrong – what we say from the opposition benches, what the Socialist Parliamentary Group says. If they don't, there'll be you, and they'll tell the Welsh educational community. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u168	Thank you, Mr. Docasar. Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Iglesias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u169	Thank you, President. We have discussed in this Chamber many initiatives because of this law, LOMCE, and the results of the last election calls announce that... well, it's practically already a sterile debate because there will be a change in educational policies. This shows us the election results of the last calls. Bipartisanism is ending, and the People's Party is in total pendant. So there's little left for the PP governments and for LOMCE too; it's a non-consensual reform, accompanied by budgets that cut an investment in education, undermine the teacher's conditions and diminish the quality of public education. In addition, it is a commercialist law when it represents – intercommitted and textually – "a bet for economic growth and for acquiring competitive advantages in the global market", and in this drift it submits educational centers to the essences of the competitive market, classifying the centers into rankings or submitting them to external tests at the state level to offer a classification of schools according to the public results of the ranking where they will be ordered, as if a football league were being treated, lordships, turning education into a career of multiple revamped obstacles and opting for the recentralization and control of the curriculum by the Administration. It is a classical and segregating law, through selective and early itineraries, which cuts funding according to results, thereby progressively eliminating equal opportunities and common training during the mandatory stage and also laying down that "educational quality options should be competitive". It establishes, consistent with this model of competition, the payment for results, which are peculiar to the business world and not the educational field, because LOMCE is committed to the business management of educational centres, undermines the democratic participation of the educational community and encourages the business, in addition to the dubious constitutionality of giving concerts to centres that segregate by sex. So, honourable Member, we must paralyze her, so I present... the first part of my amendment says that she must be paralyzed already. And point 3 of the resolution of this LNP calls on the Government to comply with everything referred to in Articles 122 and 122a of LOMCE. I share the application of Article 122, which refers to financial and human resources, totally, but not Article 122a, which refers to sections designed to promote the quality of educational centres, because the application of this article is intended to manage the centres according to the revenue of the private enterprise, through greater financial autonomy which requires private sources of financing due to the lack of public. External financing of sponsors, who impose their logos and demands, introducing private interests and commodities into public education. To this is added the specialization of the centers to offer a competitive offer – again competitive – and differentiated to the clientele and supposes a specialization of the centers in the curriculum, functional or by student typology. This legally condemns the exclusion of certain types of students, who are immigrants, minorities, who have difficulties in learning... Furthermore, it implies this law, for the director, autonomy for its execution, both from the point of view of the management of human resources as well as material and financial resources, which translates into which the director or director may lay down the requirements and merits for official staff positions and may reject interim staff from the lists. This article therefore addresses the principles of transparency, merit and equality in the formation of teaching staff and deals with the privatization of management, public education centres and their financing, so I present this amendment. Agreed that the Government should hear the cry...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u170	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u171	...of the education community of Galicia...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u172	Quiet, please. There's a very big whisper in the room. Please, shut up! Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u173	Thank you, President. I agree that they should hear the call, because I believe that it is paralysing it or, in their case, articles of dubious benefit to improve the quality of education in public education, among which, according to the honourable Member's view, is Article 122a. Thank you very much and nothing more.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u174	Thank you, Mrs Iglesias. Parliamentary Group of the Galician Nationalist Block, Mr. Pombo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u175	Thank you, President. Good morning, Counselor; Good morning, gentlemen. The Bloc Parliamentary Group has always defended delaying the implementation of LOMCE in Galicia to avoid the negative consequences of this law being introduced into our educational system. The majority of the education community in Galicia also asked to postpone this law because of the great controversy that caused the implementation of new curricula, the normative development or the revals of frankism that come back, and which only applies, let's say, the negative imposition. The BNG has always fought against the approval of LOMCE because we understand that it invaded the competences of the Board in education, and the Board itself has done nothing to defend its own competences. It is no novelty, therefore, that by means of an amendment we try to collect once again the application of LOMCE in our country as the only way to avoid the application of a lethal law for public education in Galicia; a law that, in our understanding, prevents the right to education of all students; a law that forgets our language, privatizes and commercializes education, which destroys equal opportunities, strengthens confessionality, which even promotes the segregation of the student and reintegrates the famous revals of frankism. Even the Galician School Council called for delaying the application of LOMCE, called for its withdrawal to prevent improvisations, fears, defects and chambonades caused by the hasty implementation of this law in our country. He even claimed the postponement of LOMCE in primary, secondary and undergraduate schools for most of the educational community, which is already full of rushes, improvisations, cuts, etc. The Welsh educational community doesn't want to repeat a course any more of the defects we've already seen in the past course. For all this, the Bloc has tabled amendments which I hope will be accepted by the rapporteur of the Socialist Group. We support, indeed, the request of the entire educational community to slow down the implementation of LOMCE, but we believe that it is fundamental to the amendment we tabled in the second point, which says that Parliament urges the Galician Council to take action before the Government of the State to establish the mechanisms that allow the implementation of LOMCE to be postponed in Galicia. BNG argues that LOMCE must be paralysed, as is already happening in other territories; in other territories where the educational community has claimed, but rather than the new governments if they know how to listen to these educational communities. The BNG claims from the Council that it ceases to behave as an instrument in the service of the ideology of the People's Party and assumes its responsibilities, ensuring that it is best for the Greeks and the Greeks, which in this case necessarily passes through the paralysis of LOMCE. But the BNG also claims to the Council that it has responsibility, consistency and respect and an act that prioritizes the quality of education. For that reason, we are presenting a new drafting of the third point of this non-law proposal, in which there is no more or less than management before the Government of the State to ensure that all the Greek public centers have educational, human and material resources necessary and sufficient to provide quality education. And another thing: that all the public centers in Greece have the tools needed to develop quality educational projects. I hope, Mr President of the Socialist Group, that he will accept the amendment of the BNG for the good of public education in the Italian Republic, for the improvement of the quality of public education in the Italian Republic and for the postponement of a totally negative LOMCE law for the interests of public education in the Italian Republic. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u176	Thank you, Mr. Pombo. Parliamentary Group of the Alternative Left Gallega, Mr Vázquez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u177	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good day to all of you again. I believe that from the Alternative Galga de Left we have said everything possible, everything mentioned, about LOMCE, about its consequences and about the consequences that it would have for our country the application of this law, but unfortunately even the predictions of AGE are being overcome: in the revalidas, that would be presented their results at the end of course, in July, they were finally presented few days ago, in September, with statistical data even contradictory that also generated a lot of confusion; the presentation of the curricula late; the implementation of the basic FP in an absolutely bumpy and chaotic way; the curricular materials made in all haste, accumulating the administrative work for the centers; and above all something in which the Alternative Galga de Left leads to stress from the beginning, in a segregatory model, which we had in Spain for decades, during the entire phase, a segregation educator model that separated the children from their function, not only in terms of their sex, not only in terms. We will achieve a model of integrative education along the transition. Our big challenge was to achieve inclusion, understand the difference as a wealth and not as a problem to solve, which was at the point where we were. Well, that's all dynamite, it's flown through the air, and now we're not just staying in the integrator model, but we're going back to segregation. That's the great tragedy. All that we warned him, but, as we said, our forecasts are being exceeded. We said that LOMCE was attacking the student's educational rights, but what we're seeing, what we're realizing right now, is that it's paying attention to the most basic fundamental rights of the student, not only the right to education. We recently made a visit to a centre, Vite, which is two kilometers away from this Parliament. We spoke there to the families of the children and commented on them as children with special educational needs that were making progress, for example, in the field of their needs, in the field of driving, that they were beginning to take their first steps and being able to walk, they had to be reduced to a chair, to a wheelchair, and therefore they did not have the necessary support to continue making those progress. Or children who were progressing, for example, in the control of sphincters, and who therefore no longer needed to use leathers, with the necessary support, used leathers again because they had no needed help. This does not only affect their academic progress, their personal progress, their social progress, their dignity as individuals. That's the real setback in which we're fully involved. We are not only paying attention to educational rights, but to basic human rights, and this is happening less than two kilometers from this Parliament. So we defend and say that the consequences of LOMCE reflect on an unprecedented retreat to our country which will be very difficult to recover even if that law is finally repealed, which is what we defend. Regular resources are missing, which are the best tool for working and caring for diversity; diversity understood in its broadest sense: diversity of interests, diversity of motivations, tastes, skills and rhythms, and ordinary resources that allow us to meet that diversity, but also the specific resources and extraordinary resources, as I have just said at this time. That's why from the point of view of the Alternative Left Galeg what's needed is to work for LOMCE to be derogate, not just for its application to be postponed. However, we understand the Socialist Group's initiative, because, from our point of view, we have to work to be insubmitted to this rule, and we say it publicly. But we do not agree with the third point of the non-legislative proposal of the Socialist Group, because in everything referred to in Article 122a, especially to 122a, where it is intended to advance in the autonomy of the leaderships, directions which achieve almost plenipotentiary powers, which are practically designated by the administration itself, not only to deal with the democratic functioning of the centres, but rather to provide a purely economical and entrepreneurship. It is intended to give autonomy to the Directorates to adapt human resources, to establish the requirements and merits for the coverage of teaching posts, to reject or elect the interim professor destined for the centres, to request, for example, an extension of a commission of teaching services to the centre. We don't want that to be the director's powers, and less exclusively his; it would be, in any case, the organs of the center. We believe those are the powers of the Administration...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u178	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u179	...and that giving these Plenipotentiary powers to the leadership does not benefit the improvement of the quality of education. So we understand that the amendment tabled by the Galician Nationalist Block improves writing. If we are admitted by the Socialist Group, we will support this initiative; on the contrary, we would have to abstain. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u180	Thank you, Mr. Vázquez. People's Parliamentary Group. Mr. Flours.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u181	Thank you, Mr. President. Let us debate today, ladies and gentlemen, again, the application of organic law, and, Counsellor, bis, bis, bis, stribillo. We are always debating here, turning to the same mill, without reaching any conclusion, without giving any new argument, absolutely none, always the same canteen and for the same purpose: criticising the educational policy of the People's Party, polota point, the argument ended. But this time we have been introduced with an argument that until now we have not come to the Socialist Party of Galicia, which is the pure and harsh contradiction. There is no more to read your proposal and listen to Mr. Docasar to see that this contradiction is constant throughout the explanatory statement and even in the operative part of this non-law proposal. I recognize that it is very difficult to maintain a criterion when that criterion does not exist or does not go much further, as I said at the outset, to oppose everything the democratic, legitimate, majorityist government does that represents most of the Greeks and the Greeks in a country called Galicia. But look, you're asking at the same time to slow down, which was the word Mr Docasar used, slow down the application of LOMCE, but it's at the same time asking you to break 100% one of the parts of the same law. Then slow down a bit, but at all, according to the recipe you like most each in every case. But that contradiction, Mr. Docasar, has to clear, because we really don't understand it. And besides, if you go with the slowdown in the application of the LOMCE calendar, because man, you know: what happens is that one of the fellows through that sectoral conference that you asked for – which, by the way, asks again to celebrate but has already been celebrated in August; like some of them were on vacations, but it was in August, Mr Docasar – of course, and at those sectoral conferences was one of the first achievements of the Council of Culture, Education and University Planning of Galicia, it was precisely the flexibility of the calendar in its application of an organic law, as I said before. But today, asking for this is a waste of time, because at the last sectoral conference all the advisers from all the autonomous communities also committed themselves to comply with the law and apply it. At this time it is being implemented in all autonomous communities, also in Galicia, because of institutional loyalty, of course, but through institutional loyalty, the same institutional loyalty that this parliamentary group and the Government of the Union had when it was to comply with the laws of the Socialist Party and other fellow governments that it had in Madrid, the same institutional loyalty. To obey the law, which seems to excuse having to say so in a legislative chamber, to comply with the law. And it's the same institutional loyalty that could be asked of you, but you don't have it. [[Murmurs.]] They seemed much more busy in supporting theses, not Galicia, not the Greeks and the Greeks, not our Greek education system, more concerned with defending the theses of socialist advisers from autonomous communities of the rest of Spain, or perhaps that of the Secretary of Education of Ferraz, because those are the theses that come to defend here, for nothing the Greek education system. They also ask for the debate. But it's funny that they come here to ask for the full application of 122 and 122 bis, when precisely the cut in professorship is being produced because they were, with their law, those who reduced the replacement rate to 10%, and now they ask for it to increase, when they already know that this year is approved the 50% replacement rate, and that it is announced at the same sectoral conference – if they usually get up and go, mostly the socialists – it's approved that it's 100% for the next year. [[Murmurs.]] By the way, the sectoral conference from which the autonomous nationalist communities, Mr. Pombo, came out with a "positive value" – the pet-quota. Here it seems that it's not so valuable positively. In any case, ladies and gentlemen, the Greek education system works towards that 122 bis, providing quality to the Greek education system, not to go back, which is the story that comes here to overthrow the law no more come. They will not arrive, there will be no derogation, but, in any case, it is not responsible, it is not responsible to try to return to an educational system that in the last reports belonging to the time of its government said: "Spain suspends, Spain below the OECD average...,"
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u182	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u183	..."and indicates that the system..." – ended, Mr. President – "was lost in equity". About 35% more unresponsive spending, little autonomy of the centers, more differences between the rich and the poor, little evaluation of the teachers, low percentage of excellent and too many repeaters. That, Counselor, is the proposal for which they come here to propose this: to derogate. And with regard to privatization, you remember LOPEG and what the class unions and the directors of the centers said, which was the first step towards privatization. By then we were like this, with privatization, but then it was...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u184	End, end, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u185	Mr. Pertierra...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u186	It's over, it's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u187	–Finished, Mr. President – after the success of Mr. Touriño, which was what put free books and solidarity in the hands of a private company. [[Murmurs.]] Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u188	Thank you, Mr. Fariñas. Group author of the non-law proposal. Mr. Docasar.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u189	All right. Counsellor, Mr. Farinas, I see them delighted, you are delighted, you think that when one speaks here and speaks from the experience of being a professional in the world of education and telling them things that are happening in the education system, you interpret that we are telling them a story, there you! Obviously, I do not ask for the insubmission of LOMCE. You know perfectly well what the Socialist Party's stance on the theme of LOMCE has been clear from the very first moment, there is no doubt. We have always made it clear that if we have government opportunities, it will be repealed. That's clear to them. We always say it, and we also put very precise phrases, saying, "It will last what Rajoy lasts in Moncloa." There's no doubt in that. Of course, what time are we now? Now obviously I am a responsible person, the Socialist Group is a responsible group, we are a ruling party, that has ruled and wants to govern again. I cannot ask Parliament right now to paralyze itself, at the moment when the course is under way, to paralyze LOMCE. I'm not assholes, said so, eh! I'm a responsible person; therefore, what do I ask of them? [[Laughter]] That they slow down, moderate that application, that application that is suffocating – taste it or not listen to it at parliamentary headquarters – the educational communities and that is suffocating the teacher. Or do I tell them a story if I tell them right now here, right now, Counsellor, in parliamentary headquarters, solemnly – you are the highest person in charge of the Education Council –: are you clear today that the educational centres delivered on September 15 in high school and graduated the teaching programs? Do you make it clear? I tell you here today not, that they are not delivered, because they don't know how they have to do them, they haven't received instructions, they haven't been told since the Educational Inspection how to do them, and I use it to give me data -- if you have them -- what percentages of didactic programming were delivered in time and form. [[Murmurs.]] And that's the result of a time-honoured implementation schedule, and you may like it or not, there you are!, but there's a huge goat in the educational community has no doubt about it, Mr. Farinas, it is so; and you too, of course, who are also an education professional – I know it, too, I'm not going to discuss it. But if you look elsewhere and let the educational community suffocate, there you are! They speak and make decisions, they make decisions to control these issues that I just told them. I put them on the table. At this point, the Socialist Party is not responsible for the government, but you do, and you have to look every way to ensure that the system works, and they're putting it in danger. And I also tell them they're putting -- and I'm not saying insubordination -- the education system and the teacher on the edge of insubordination -- they like it or not; and parents, on the subject of the chaos of textbooks. There you are! They're still there. They don't contain us. I'm not going to accept the amendments, because I don't want to give them any chance of being told that I want to paralyze LOMCE, right now I want to slow down its application. And Article 122, it would be to discuss long and tense. All I'm asking is that if we talk about self-management, please...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u190	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u191	...a thing that gives management to centers and directors, please don't paralyze them, because it gives the feeling that management autonomy means that they manage when there's a time. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u192	Thank you, Mr. Docasar. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da María do Carmen Acuña do Campo and two other Members, on the entry into force of the National Plan for the Approach to Hepatitis C in the National Health System and its application in the field of prisons in Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u193	No amendments have been tabled to this non-law proposal. Mrs. Acuña has the floor for her defense.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u194	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies. I'm sorry I can't give good days to the Health Counsellor, but I do want to give good days to the representatives of the Affected and Affected Platform of Galician Hepatitis C. Good morning, thank you very much for your work. The Government is denying the prisoners and prisoners of Galicia access to the new treatments of hepatitis, and the People's Parliamentary Group seems to agree with this barbarity, since the 5th Commission voted against the request that in order to remedy this problem it brought us to its own Platform of Affected and Affected by the Hepatitis C of Galicia, ask that today the Socialists present to give the PP the opportunity to end with the greatest injustice that can be done in politics: to discriminate against people in access to health care. It is clear that an ethical government, a social government, as President Feijóo assures us that it is yours, cannot consent that the imprisoned population of the Greek prisons has no right to be cured, has no right to receive the medical treatment indicated; in addition, medical treatment indicated for a disease such as hepatitis C, which can kill, lords, or cause serious and irreversible injuries. It's incredible to have to remember that we're talking about people who are serving a sentence, and that's why they are deprived of freedom, but of course they still have rights. But besides, why is this treatment denied to prisoners and prisoners, so if they are denied the most fundamental right, the right to health, to those people, it is not, ladies and gentlemen, another than between the Ministry of the Interior and Sergas do not agree on who has to pay for that treatment. And of course, as they disagree, they decided to initiate a dispute in the courts, without taking into account that, while they argue, prisoners can die. Cruel quarrel, lords, cruel quarrel when it comes to people's lives, for I insist: we're talking about healing or dying. But besides cruel, absurd litigation, because we're talking about public money, because both the budget of the Ministry of the Interior and Sergas comes from the same place, comes from citizenship itself. And certainly incomprehensible litigation, because it turns out that in the National Plan itself for the approach of the hepatitis of the National Health System, which was approved late, ill and dragged by the PP Ministry of Health, the huge impact this disease has on the imprisoned population. It is estimated that more than 20% – exactly 20.3% of the prisoners – may be affected. And the plan reminds us, in addition, that almost 27% of them may be co-infected with the hepatitis C virus but with HIV. In addition, the plan identifies precisely, ladies and gentlemen, precisely as a priority population to receive treatment for internal persons in prison institutions, in order to be able to prevent and reduce the incidence of hepatitis C, and also determines that co-infected people will also be given priority attention in the implementation of the plan. By the way, I don't know if the PP wants to repeat the political ridicule made when it was the plan, because I remind you that at that time they also voted here in this House against what we were asked by the Galician Platform for Affected and Affected, which was exactly the same as it was collected in the plan that was approved by the Government of Madrid – and welcome, by the way – the bomb and plate by the Ministry, just a few days later that Galician PP had voted against that proposal. Besides, ladies and gentlemen, there is a judgment, still in force, that obliges Sergas to facilitate these treatments to all prisoners and prisoners who need it, while the discussion continues in the courts between the Ministry and the Sergas. And I want to emphasize two things: that is for everyone and all and not only for those who have claimed judicially. And I want to emphasize something else: that sentence is still in force. It is true that there is a Ministry-Sergas agreement to regulate the health care of people in Greek prisons, but it is also true that this agreement has not been renewed since 2010. Prisons have their own primary health resources, but hospital care and the specialized who are in need of the imprisoned persons is proportional to Sergas, and then Sergas can and should also bill the expenses to the Ministry of the Interior. We do not know the reasons why Sergas himself, who has been taking years, years, ladies and gentlemen, without billing those costs to the Interior, if he now, however, refuses to provide these medicines to prisoners; medicines that are hospital dispensation and which, therefore, should provide – as he does with other drugs – to Sergas himself, regardless of how later he billed them to Madrid. What we also don't understand is why people who are trapped in Madrid prisons do have access to that medication. I mean, if you're in prison in Madrid, you're treated; if you're in prison in Galicia. No. No. So now the People's Party intends to propose as a solution to this problem that people who need to be treated must be transferred to Madrid prisons. I mean, in addition to the disease, the uprooting, because we can't forget that their families, their people are still here in Galicia. Nor do we understand the reasons for this measure, since the price of medicines has to be the same here and in Madrid. But, no doubt, the cost of this measure will be higher, since at the cost of treatment we will have to add to the cost of the transfer. It is true that the People's Parliamentary Group in the Commission has sought to make us believe that prisoners and prisoners in Galicia do not want to be treated. No, ladies and gentlemen, of course they want to be treated, not if they want to kill themselves, they're not suicides; what they refuse is the transfer to which they are obliged to treat themselves. Ladies and gentlemen, it can't be that in Galicia they're only being treated about a dozen people in prison when it's estimated that about 750 people will be infected. This doesn't have any justification, something has to be missing. So, ladies and gentlemen of the PP, by justice, by ethics and by common sense, we hope that today we will support this initiative on which we once again ask for the same thing as we have already requested and the same as we request the platform of people affected. Point 1, that the Government of the Union shall proceed to extend without further delay the new drugs for hepatitis C to all, to all internal persons in the prisons of Greece, as the plan is drawn up and as the courts are mandated. And that once and for all – and this is of absolute common sense – is coordinated by the General Directorate of Prison Institutions and Sergas to resolve this matter. We hope to have the support of the other groups. And for now, nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u195	Thank you, Mrs. Acuña. Joint Parliamentary Group. Mrs. Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u196	Thank you, President. Good morning and a greeting to the people who accompany us today in this debate which has a great deal to do with the government's social responsibility, with the human quality of the government itself. So I already announce the Joint Group's support for this non-legislative proposal, which is born on the initiative of people affected by the hepatitis C and Esculca virus. The National Health System has integrated the entire population except about 65,000 people scattered throughout the state, internal people into prison institutions. The General Health Act of April 25, 86, has as its fundamental objective the constitutional right to health protection, which should include – and explicitly – prison health. But, in addition, this assistance has the general constitutional objective of protecting the health of the population, which exceeds the prison scope itself to enter the field of public health, in order to prevent and break the chain of transmission of multiple diseases, on the one hand, and to carry a strict and necessary supervision of the treatments of some others. And also – I understand, even though it does not seem so – should have as its objective the prevention and abolition of torture in the penitentiary field. Suicides are the third cause of death in prisons, far higher than deaths from heart problems or drug causes. From time to time, we have seen ongoing complaints about the conditions of unhealthy living, malnutrition, abuse of power and torture in Greek prisons. Representatives of Esculca and New Lawyers of Vigo report difficulties in being able to investigate from outside these events that are commonly declared suicides. They report cases like Javier's, a Lama prisoner, who started a hunger strike last December because he couldn't undergo surgery on a kidney because on that day there was no police vehicle available to transfer him to the hospital. They don't talk about ambulances, you see, inmates don't deserve to be transferred to ambulances. The BOE of 22 June 2006 published the instrument of ratification of the Optional Protocol to the Convention against Torture and Other Cruel, Inhuman and Degrading Treatment or Punishment, held in New York on 18 December 2002. In its preamble it says: "Article 2 and 16 of the Convention obliges each State party to take effective measures to prevent acts of torture and other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment throughout its territory under its jurisdiction." And, of course, denying a medical treatment that can suppose to cure a person's disease and allow the progressive deterioration of their health with the only argument that it is necessary to negotiate before those who are going to pay it is an act of torture, cruel, inhuman and degrading. It is therefore a matter of fulfilling the legal and moral obligation to protect a fundamental right such as the health of persons deprived of their liberty, a right which can never be limited by economic criteria or by virtue of the crime committed, age, ethnicity, ideology or any other discrimination. And the health of the imprisoned population is a responsibility of the Galician Union. We live in a rule of law, a democracy is not compatible with lynching, beatings, torture and denial of help and medical treatment. Prison cannot be conceived as a revenge of society, prison must be conceived as a means of reintegration. In prison the human being loses his freedom, not only the freedom to go out and act in the world; he loses the freedom to be himself, to decide, to communicate with the world. In a real democracy, where human beings are the foundation of their right, the imprisoned population enjoys the same rights to health as the rest of the population and the same level of protection of their privacy and constitutional rights. In addition to the fact that at plenary session on 6 May this Parliament unanimously approved a request for the transfer of health skills from the imprisoned population, assuming Sergas himself, it is clear that Sergas has to take over this treatment. By not adding what has already been said by the spokesman of the Socialist Party that the Board is currently violating a judgement by the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia. And I believe that any government must, and you so assume and always say that they will comply with the judgments, and when the corruption is being investigated, they speak of the need to let the judges act and then to comply with the judgments. Because they have no ethics to act ethically and give such treatment for an ethical, democratic and purely dignity issue, they do it at least to comply with the judgments of the courts. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u197	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u198	Good day to all and to all and, in particular, to the members of the Hepatitis C-affected and Affected Platform that accompany us from the rostrum. I would like to begin by saying that, of course, the Galego Nationalist Block will support this initiative, and not that it will support it, but that we did it ourselves at the time when the platform itself brought it in, just as we made the claim itself at the time when the treatments that existed on the market for the cure of hepatitis C were dispensed. I also want to bless them because they do important work in defence of public health and in defense of the right of the people to receive the best public health on equal terms. And it seems tremendous to us that it has to be the affected and affected themselves who have to become – so to speak – lobby pressure in the face of the insensitivity of governments, in this case of the Spanish Government and the Greek Government itself, who, in their pursuit of converting health into business, leaves aside the suffering of people. Because what we're talking about is not improving the quality of life, it's not having a medication to feel a little better. We're talking about medication that makes the difference between life and death, we're talking about healing or not doing it. And so we're talking about people who actually suffer and governments who refuse to give these treatments to end this suffering. And they deny the coldness of people who have total insensitivity to the suffering of others, of people who think that they or they will never be affected, nor will they ever see themselves in that situation. And the tremendous thing is that right now that I should be brought here through this initiative, we really find it scandalous to the Galician Nationalist Block, and that there are still people who are denied treatment and that there is a treatment that can cure them can only be qualified because of indecency. And we say once again that it's not enough to put things in a paper, an agreement to get the media pressure out, to get the social pressure out of the top, it's not enough to approve the plan for the approach of hepatitis C, but then we have to put it into practice, we have to implement the measures that are envisaged there. And you have to do it proactively, it can't be the blow that you have to be pressing to meet what you put into a plan that theoretically has the effect that it has to be done. And the Public Administration cannot follow in this situation that, considering in that plan for the approach of hepatitis C that the prevalence of hepatitis C in staff in prison institutions is very high, far above 20%, looking at it specifically in that plan, then actually does not put the mechanisms to put it into effect. And I must also say, loud and clear, that public administrations must pay special attention to those groups that are most vulnerable. And within these vulnerable collectives are persons deprived of liberty, imprisoned persons, and very especially those who because of their social conditions, because of their economic conditions, because of their socio-cultural situation have less opportunity to access certain resources. They are deprived of liberty for having committed a crime, but that deprivation of liberty cannot increase more condemnation, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party. They are deprived of liberty, but that cannot increase a double sentence of deprivation of the right to medication. Persons imprisoned in Galician prisons cannot have equal access to the right to health than those who are not in that situation. In a recent 5th Committee on Health, the People's Party voted against this non-law proposition, in a new exercise of cruelty, in a new exercise of cruelty, and under a few arguments, Mr. People's Party that defended it on that occasion – which I do not know is going to defend it today –, of course not justified under any prism. It is not justifiable to say that this Parliament cannot urge the Government of Greece to establish a commission with Penitentiary Institutions. This Greek Parliament is sovereign to demand that such measures be taken. You can't say there's a high percentage -- you said more than 40% -- that they refuse that medication. He insults the intelligence of anyone who says that there are inmates who do not accept this medication. You know that's not the case.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u199	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u200	You know that what you don't accept – said the voicer of the Socialist Party – is that they have to be moved to Madrid for months for that treatment, which, in addition, is what? That prisoners don't want to heal? You certainly justify your ideological position can't lead to saying these kinds of questions. So the question is very clear. There is a court ruling that establishes precautionary measures which say that, as long as there is no liability between Prison Institutions and Galician Union, there is a minimum of decency and attention to humanitarian issues, there are complaints put and admitted to the proceedings in the People's Valedor, and above all there is a minimum of decency and attention. I mean, there's no excuse not to answer...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u201	Finish it, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u202	...this request which seems to us the fairest, the most elementary. I hope that, indeed, as you did on another occasion, the People's Party will rectify and have the decency of today to vote in favour of this initiative. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u203	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Parliamentary Group of the Left Galician Alternative. Mrs. Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u204	Thank you, President. Welcome to the companions of the Hepatitis Platform. Many months of personal and social struggle and suffering have had to endure these people and the sick people of hepatitis to achieve it, because they and they have succeeded in their struggle, which the Ministry and the Council decided to facilitate access to new treatments against hepatitis, which had rejected the actual and legal possibility of producing it as generics by asking for a mandatory license, after voting against games that would cover drugs, after shameing their total lack of empathy for themselves and strangers. In the Spanish state, about 65,200 people were arrested, 50% died before they were 47 years old. It is not precisely the Spanish prison system an example of absolutely nothing. 21% of prisoners suffer from hepatitis C and the Government denies treatment, although, after approval of the strategic plan, they have a right, as do the rest of the population in states F2, F3 and F4. And yet of all those thousands of people infected, only 2.8% are receiving treatment in the state and 1.4% if we talk about Galicia. Mr. Rajoy's government and Mr. Alonso's government, and also the Union of Galicia, are trampling on human rights. But in addition to this sacred Constitution of his, in particular, articles 14 and 43. Yes, article 135 continues to fulfill it scrupulously. They also violate the General Health Act, 14/1986, of 25 April, violating articles 3, 6, 10, 12 and 46 in particular, and obviously also violate the Galician Health Act. The valet of the people, Mrs. Becerril, of the People's Party – but it seems that with more lights than you all – said in the 2014 report: "There are a certain number of inmates who have been prescribed these drugs by specialists in the corresponding public health system that are not receiving them, because the prison administration considers that the economic amount must be satisfied by the autonomous communities, whenever they are dealing with hospital benefit drugs. In the face of the autonomous refusal to bear these costs, the prison administration, through the State Juridical Services, initiates judicial proceedings; in the meantime, sick inmates do not receive the prescribed treatment and their state of health deteriorates." Well, despite this warning, which they have the right to, they appear to be in the prevailing legality, but human rights are being violated. The central administration, the People's Party, and the autonomy, of the People's Party, continue with quarrels to avoid paying the treatments. A lamentable spectacle. The treatments of these people are obviously not a whim, but they have the right and they need them to improve and to be able to cure. Nothing matters when the foundations of the State stand on wear. And I contradicted the decision of the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia to which reference was made here, which says that the right to health prevails over the economy, and condemned us as in this case even to pay the costs and to take care of the treatments while the economic part is mine. On September 1, 2015, Santiago's Dispute Tribunal failed in the same sense, according to which we moved the platform. And Junta still doesn't take care of the treatments of sick people. The Ministry, of the People's Party, and the Council, of the People's Party, that governs politics and economics what they need, but this is a matter of human rights. You can't let a person die or seriously deteriorate your health status because you or they, who are from the same party, don't want to take over the budget needed to pay for these treatments. Nor can these people be forced to move to Madrid to be treated, because this violates human rights, not only of the prisoners, but of the families, who are already serving enough condemnation. Again, of course, we will support the initiative and demand that it be supported – we do not ask, we demand – by the People's Party itself, because you have no right to violate human rights or the right to health, which is contained in all laws, even in this sacred Constitution to which you claim to defend. Nothing else. The treatments must be for everyone, including the imprisoned people.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u205	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. People's Parliamentary Group. Mr. Núñez Centeno.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u206	Thank you, President. Good morning, gentlemen. Greetings first of all the people who are attending this debate. This proposal was discussed with the same text, as has already been mentioned here in Commission 5a two weeks ago, the proposal of the Joint Group, and defended by Mrs Martínez. And of course I've said it that day: we agree with you that disease has a very important incidence in the prison population and also, as we've also said, a co-infection in high rates of HIV virus. I didn't say 47% of the prisoners refused treatment, said the Spanish Journal of Prison Health. A study conducted in eight state prison health services related to the hepatitis C treatment deficit reached this conclusion: 47.5% refused treatment due to lack of motivation or awareness of inmates. In addition, in the case of co-existing HIV infection, which is also a high percentage, drugs may not be used for toxicity or even for rejection or fear of the patient. Since Decree 190/96, health and prison administrations should formalize assistance agreements, defining criteria for coordination, protocols, plans and procedures. The Royal Decree does, however, indicate that pharmaceutical benefits will be effective by the Prison Administration except for medicines for hospital use and pharmaceutical products that are not marketed in Spain. As far as the drugs used to treat chronic infection by the C virus are concerned, the Ministry has been informed, as most autonomous communities have done, that they are not hospital-use drugs, Mrs Acuña, but hospital-dispensation drugs, which you, as a professional, know is not the same. The Galego Health Service provides the necessary health care for patients in prison with digestive pathologies, including the evaluation, treatment and follow-up of patients with chronic hepatitis C virus hepatitis C. And I want to add here that Mrs. Acuña said that since 2010 the agreement has not been signed by Penitentiary Institutions, but Sergas continued to attend all inmates in hospital institutions, and treats Sergas with new drugs everyone who needs it, being enrolled in hospitals in our network. As set out in the Strategic Plan for Addressing Hepatitis C in the National Health System, the indication of these treatments is the responsibility of specialists who attend the pathology consultation, but, once treatment is indicated, the administration is carried out in the penal centre itself, where the blood extractions necessary for proper monitoring of the treatment are also carried out. This is the case from the date of the entry into force of the said plan. With regard to transfers, which were mentioned in the Committee on Transfers of Jurisdictions in Prison Health, a non-legislative proposal was adopted in this Parliament, but which included a transaction on dynamic adequacy for the provision of the service both in economic and material means, and our group continues to demand such a transfer. In May 2003, with the Government of the People's Party in Madrid, Law 16 on the cohesion and quality of the National Health System was approved, which additional provision 6 called for the transfer of criminal health services in the autonomous communities. In a period of 18 months, 18 months, since May 2003, by a royal decree, these services would be integrated into the National Health System. I will not remind you, Mrs Acuña, who ruled Spain from March of the year 4 to December of the year 11, times of economic kindness in which nothing has been done on this subject at all. And going to the points of the proposal, with regard to the first point of your proposal, I have to say that the Galician Health Service has fulfilled the High Court's judgment, as it could not be otherwise. But I also told you in the Commission that there is already a judgment of Santiago's Comptensive-Administrative No. 1 which gives the reason to Sergas based on the jurisprudence of the Superior Court of Castile and León, which has also appealed, which reiterates that the medication of hepatitis C is not of hospital use, but of hospital dispensation. Sergas prescribes treatment but it's Penitentiary Institutions who have to make it easier for him in prison. Any internal or internal person who needs it is hospitalized in Sergas centers. Logically, all the medication they need during admission is given in the hospital. The outpatient medication corresponds to the Ministry for any pathology, not exclusively, for any pathology. But the Galician Health Service serves and treats all the prison population you need and asks for hepatitis C disease and prescribes all the medication you need, just like for any other pathology. Since last August, it has been publicized that the Ministry of the Interior has recorded economic amounts to finance the purchase of hepatitis C medicines to administer them to the prisoners who need it, and in addition to the health services of the Greek prisons they already have the instructions and protocols of use...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u207	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u208	...–remato, president– conservation and storage of last-generation medicines. There's no prisoner in Madrid either. We believe that collaboration between the two administrations should be desirable for the development of what is established within the framework of the national plan and for what we also know in this parliamentary group that Sergas is obviously willing. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u209	Thank you. Group author of the non-law proposal. You have the word to Mrs. Acuña do Campo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u210	Thank you, President. Well, first of all, thank you for the support of the opposition groups. With regard to the People's Parliamentary Group, it is clear that the People's Group, the People's Government, Mr Feijóo, neither ethics nor aesthetics nor justice nor common sense, and also of the Social Government, born or born. Look, Mr, the only thing we ask you to do on this initiative is to comply with your plan. The only thing we ask of you on this initiative is that you comply with what the courts send, that they put before, as is logical, health to economic litigation. All we ask of you on this initiative is to listen to the people's defender, to listen to the valet. The only thing we ask you about this initiative is what the Spanish Society of Prison Health asks you to do. The only thing we ask them to do on this initiative is to ask the Galician Platform for Victims and Affected by the Galician Hepatitis C, which we ask all groups of the opposition to this House, the same as all NGOs working with the imprisoned population, and of course, gentlemen, the same thing that, although they do not listen to them, they are asked by the prisoners and the prisoners of Galicia, who if they do not ask for it, is because they are not well informed. Look, the prisoners and the prisoners, sir, are deprived of liberty but they are not sentenced to death and you, with your verdict vote, will do what is to turn that sentence of deprivation of liberty into a death sentence. Look, sir, ladies and gentlemen, I seriously believe we have to ask ourselves a question, the question we have to ask ourselves is that it will really happen in the Greek prisons so that the Ministry of the Interior of the PP denies public representatives entry into prisons, ask us what is going on in the Greek prisons, gentlemen, so that the Sergas of the PP deny them the right to care for their health, deny them access to the medical treatment they so much need. Sir, I don't know if the solution is to ask Sergas professionals to enter the entire imprisoned population so they can access the treatment, I propose another solution: if you bother the second point because you don't dare speak to your Interior Minister, I propose a point vote so that at least this House by ethics, by aesthetics, by morals and by common sense...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u211	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u212	...and by a minimum of respect for that inmate population voting in favour of the medical treatment needed...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u213	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u214	...to live or not to have irreversible injuries. I hope I can count on your support. Nothing more and thank you very much. [[Applause]] G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. People of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr José Manuel Balsairo Orol, on fishing for boarfish in the ICES zone IXa, adopted by the Sectoral Commission for the Research of the Galego Fisheries Council
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u215	Amendments to this proposal were tabled by the Joint Group, the Galician Nationalist Bloc and the Parliamentary Group of the Left Galician Alternative.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u216	You have the floor, to formulate the non-law proposition, Mr. José Manuel Balsairo Orol, of the People's Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u217	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen. The Rural and Sea Councillor, who leads the advisor Rosa Quintana, maintains a permanent contact and dialogue and is working in collaboration with the representatives of the search sector in the development of joint initiatives and proposals that allow better management of strategic fisheries resources for this fleet; as a result of this process, we have important steps. The rise is effective at 52% since 2009 in the fishing quotas of the main target species of the fleet of siege – we're talking about the jury, we're talking about the yard and we're talking about the anchor – which went from 64,964 tons in 2009 to 98,772 in 2015, with an increase of 52%. We also promoted a model change in the management of quails, passing an uncontrolled Olympic fishing and giving rise to sanctions for exceeding the quota to a different model that allowed Galicia to land in the last year more than in the previous two years, generating savings in our ports, in the ports of Greece, and generating 37% more in the discharges compared to 2013 and 25% more in the discharges compared to 2012. And finally, an agreement also to achieve improvements in profitability and marketing with commercial tops by limiting the number of catches and discharges in periods of time. Today, ladies and gentlemen, we want to focus in particular on the fishing of the bonnet, a highly migratory species that has appeared in abundance for the last two years in our waters after ten years almost without showing up. At the meeting on 13 July 2015, the Sectoral Committee of the Galego Fisheries Council agreed unanimously on a number of proposals relating to the possibilities of fishing for boar in ICES zone IXa, i.e. in waters south of Fistra to the Gulf of Cádiz – I repeat, in ICES zone IXa, that is, in waters south of Fádiz to the Gulf of Fádiz – in waters south of Fádiz – in waters south of Fádiz. In its fundamental lines, the agreement called for the reopening of the fishery and the fulfilment of the commitment acquired from the Ministry's General Fisheries Secretariat to enable sufficient quota for the Greek fleet, taking into account the emergence of abundant resource of this species in waters of this area, in zone IXa. More specifically, the Sectoral Commission proposed an annual reservation of 10% of the Spanish quota in this area so that it could be taken advantage of by the siege vessels with base port in our autonomous community, with base port in Galicia, in case, as happened this year, if it was estimated to be present in waters north of zone IXa, it would be reserved at least until October 31 of each year. And since the above agreement welcomes the take-up of the Greek siege sector, we must – or we understand it from the People's Group – strengthen this claim by means of an agreement by the political forces present in the Galician Parliament, an agreement which first serves as a support to the negotiations that the Greek Government must push before the central administration and, secondly, with regard to the autonomous communities and in particular with the Autonomous Community of Andalucía, which defends positions contrary to the German theses. Many, ladies and gentlemen, we have talked about the fleet of the siege in this House, sometimes to re-incidence in what separates us – that yes, it is true that there are things that separate us – in what we do not agree with the various political groups, but it is true that today we have the opportunity to show to the field of the siege what we should coincide with, a demand that we should share and an aspect in which we should all agree. It is true that other autonomous communities, including the ministry itself, are waiting for the pronouncement, too, like this institution and in this case of the Galician Parliament. It is true that if we make this agreement today unanimously, we can give an example of unity, we can give an example of support to the fleet of the siege in a demand that is not from the People's Party, gentlemen, in a demand that is from the professionals of the sea and that is from the sector itself; the only thing that makes the People's Party move that agreement from the Government of Galicia – from the Galician Council of Fisheries – to the Galician Parliament, but we have no interest in making this proposal – I repeat, a proposal brought by the People's Party, but a proposal that is not from the People's Party and that is from the sector. The agreement states: "The Galician Parliament urges the Galician Council to take up the proposal as its own in relation to the fishing opportunities of the boar in ICES zone IXa, approved by the Sectoral Commission for the Research of the Galician Fisheries Council, so that this is the reference document to defend the interests of the Galician fleet in front of the autonomous communities and the central government". Waiting for support, because here we all agree: the Welsh fleet has to fish, here we want the Greek fleet to fish and fish nearby, we don't want to send it to the Azores, we want to send it to the south of Fisterra; we want to fish where it can fish, where the boats in the siege have the means to fish. We hope that you will also be responsible and support this initiative. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u218	Thank you, Mr. Balsairo. Intervention of parliamentary groups. Joint Group, Mrs. Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u219	Thank you, President. If it wasn't for the dramatic situation, Mr. Balsairo, I'd have to say that of "you vote for me to laugh." Mr Balsairo, do you think I should like to come to this Parliament and propose that we vote for an agreement from the Sectoral Committee on Fisheries Research? You have a recurring action with this council and its dictates, and so, when the sector makes them fed – and I am allowed the colloquial expression – to you and the Galician board that support inoperators and incompetents, they come to wash their faces in front of it by bringing to this Parliament a non-law proposal that only applies to refer to the agreement of the Galician Fisheries Council of July. And I wonder at this performance of the People's Party, do you trust that the Board will comply with the agreement or that the advisor, in that already seen that she has with the sector, forgets to do something until the next piece of paper comes up to them? They are consistent, once and for all, present a proposal or force the board to submit a strategic plan to enable the sector. You stop washing your face whenever there are problems, you act, you take courage, you take measures as a group and from Parliament you approve my amendment, but you stop running away from reality and start being consistent, you stop being winners. The meaning of my amendment has already been explained, for I have already explained it sufficiently in this Parliament and for its defence I repeat yesterday's arguments in the motion of the Socialist Group on motions. Listen to the confession of part that Mr. President of Galician Union made at a conference at the Economic Forum that took place in Coruña last week. There, Mr. Torcuato Teixeira's questions recognized that it was a mistake to join agriculture and fisheries councils and that it was a prejudgment for both sectors and their proper public management. It's justified with the crisis and the cuts, it's raining in Havana! By austerity he said he committed the austerity of harming the two most important primary sectors of our country. Well, help him, correct the mistake – it is wise to correct – that they are consistent and proceed to the unfolding of the Agriculture and Fisheries Council in two councils, the primary sector of Greece will thank him and especially the area of the Greek siege. The siege workers are losing their future with incomes that do not allow them to cover even the costs of exploitation. That is why I am presenting this substitution amendment, I believe that the text of the initiative makes no sense, if there is an agreement in the sector with counseling, the normal thing is that I would advise on it, it does not need this Parliament to parabenice it. I therefore believe that the resolution party can be perfectly replaced by another text, so I say: "to submit within one month, before Parliament, for its debate and approval, a plan for the fisheries of the craft fleet and for the lowering, in particular the fleet of the siege, which guarantees its economic profitability by ensuring the viability of this fleet. The advance plan will include a study of the necessary quotas and also a policy of withdrawal prices and its implementation will serve as a basis for all the negotiations and demands of the Galician Union against the Government of the State and the Community bodies." This amendment does not require any abnormal, no scandalous amendment, it calls for a plan for the future and the viability of the search sector and calls for the price policy measures to be taken into account in this plan to ensure the survival of the fence sector. Let's hope you accept this amendment. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u220	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. For the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mr. Rodas Chapela has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u221	The truth is, they want to cry. You come here today, after three years without doing anything at all and having a sector every weekend on the docks with demonstrations, throwing out the mouth, showing the drama what they're going through, making it valid that at the meeting they had in the Sectoral Commission of the Circle on July 13 they prepared a document to claim the right of the Greek fleet to be able to fish for the borough. The reference, Mr. Balsairo, cannot be a role, must be the management carried out, because you, in addition to being the majority group, are a government and therefore must exercise your capacity; capacity that has not been exercised throughout all these years, since 2012, in which they have reached agreement with the Secretary-General, nor in 2013, where they corresponded to us and where that division was consolidated indignant and miserable, which corresponds to Andalusia's 98.86 % and to us the misery of 1.14%; this was 53 tons in 2013, 73 tons in 2014 and 52 tons in 2015. But you also have to see your commitment when the BNG has brought up a proposal to recover this right and you voted against it. As is also seen every day in the ability to intermitrate, for example, in the quota transvasion with Portugal, or in how other countries like France were able to exchange from the ninth to the eighth, and it turns out that you, when the exchange is made, the pope absolutely all Andalusia and we are making the ridiculous. As is also seen as closing the VIIIc, and it turns out that they close it just when the mouthpiece is in our waters, just when it has an extraordinary price and also when it turns out that the Government of the State has to pay the excess of fishing for the 2009 and 2010 yards with 10% left of this year's garden. Just now we are also currency of exchange, and the Greek Government comes back mute, instead of demanding that the lawn pay really who caught it too much, which wasn't exactly our Greek fleet. So, Mr. Balsairo and the People's Party gentlemen, they come here to stage a political pharisaism; they preach one thing, but every day in reality they do just the opposite, they make our fleet lose rights and they also cause us to lose our ability to manage and engage, and I have to remind you once again that we are the majority fleet of the whole Iberian Peninsula. But they also make us feel absolutely ridiculous about that 1.14% distribution, and, above all, what they do is they face the sector and they systematically, they don't make any other communication that they're on the street, that they're on the dock, claiming fair quotas. So stop political pharisaism and get to work. To that end, we put the BNG as an alternative, which is, firstly, to reject this ridiculous division altogether; secondly, to denounce that the Union has been watching them come for three years...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u222	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u223	...without making a single management that defends our fishing sector; and, thirdly – as not! – not to admit to anything this division of supposed historical rights, which, whenever applied, will carry us, both the Basques and the cantabs and until now also the Gulf of Cadiz. See that you've already ordered the situation to which you lead us!, the majority fleet of the Cantabrian and the Atlantic, and being completely relocated throughout the world thanks to their excellent managements. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u224	Thank you very much. Mr Fajardo has the floor by the Parliamentary Group of the Gaga de Left Alternative.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u225	Good day to all and all. Basically today we are back to a debate that took place yesterday in this House, and where it became clear how much commitment some people have to deal with the situation in the search sector, in particular with the species that is brought about today. I say this because every time there is an obvious problem, the People's Party is proposing in this House as a clear example of its ineffective motions for resolutions that mean nothing, because the People's Party believes that the only thing it can do to improve the situation in the sector is to move the House to ratify an agreement from the Sectoral Council is something like saying that the People's Party is left and that the Government is left. Let the Sectorial Council rule directly because it is clear that the People's Party has no initiative in this sense but to disarm the fleet of the siege and the fleets of Galicia. And he does it, besides, a spokesman who yesterday, on such an important subject as that, he used half of his intervention to talk about a typographical error, and he did that the center of his intervention. And it turns out that today, in your proposal, they're talking about a fishing zone that doesn't exist, because they're not talking about zone IXa, because IxA isn't zone IXa. That doesn't exist, it's something else, it's going to be 1xA, or LxA or La Caixa, which is the closest thing you can put, but of course not zone IXa. So you have a little humility when you talk about others in those terms, because it's you who always have nothing to consider when making proposals that serve something. If we approve this, we will approve you to fish in the La Caixa area, which is what the People's Party wants. We're going to put a question on the table that the People's Party should explain. In the state as of year 21,000 tons of boart reached the markets – 21,000 tons of boart – and only 6,800 fish in Galicia. How do you understand that? How can you explain to me that this is your great action on themouth fishing? How is it possible that the markets of the state as a whole are infested and also the Germans with a mouthpiece and it turns out that, of the 21,000 tons that were fished in the state as a whole, in Galicia, only 6,800 kilograms? That's the people's party management, that's the only reality. You can shield it in the percentages you want, but reality is another, the fact is that the People's Party is condemning our fishing and our fishermen to absolute misery. So what are the commitments that the People's Party holds with the rest of the state? Why do they use our fishing as a currency of exchange for another kind of political interest that Mr Balseiro should explain? Look, look through the papers because I think it's going to be hard for you to explain clearly, and especially honestly, why they always sell Welsh fishing in exchange for other interests. How is it possible in Cantabria, that in Basque Country, that in Andalusia are able to draw more and more skills and we always end up losing? It doesn't matter what species it is, it doesn't matter what art is, always our fishermen, our sailors, end up losing these negotiations. But what happens! when one speaks of the lack of commitment of the one who has been head of fishing in the state, who has committed himself to a question that is now in question, you should explain how it is possible that this person is now an official, ambassador in Thailand, in Asia, on one of these borders that is bringing fish to our markets – what chance!, it seems that things have nothing to do with anything, but sometimes things have enough to see – and how a person who attacks the Greek fish, the Welsh fishermen, with a diplomatic position precisely on a continent where the fish on this continent is being used to invade our markets and expel the fish that is fishing on our coasts, or what is fishing for our sailors. So, we're not -- we said yesterday -- in the face of an error and a lack of capacity, we're faced with political decisions made by the People's Party, which means we're done with our fleet and we're done with our model of life, they're trying to end our agriculture, end our livestock and end our fishing, so Galicia ends up being what you want it to be: a colony. Of course, in front of you will find all the AGE efforts to prevent this from being possible. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u226	Thank you very much, Mr. Fajardo. For the Socialist Group, Mr. Val Alonso.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u227	Good day to all and all. Thank you very much, Madam President. Today we are once again attending that game that the People's Party has used to us, which is to bring to Parliament initiatives that want to demonstrate proximity and support to the sector, but that are simply in this, in a mere facade, without any background and without any kind of content. The People's Party, without complexes, as demonstrated by the spokesperson of the People's Party on yesterday, trying to ridicule a proposal from this group, and making the ridicule itself, because the PP, after the counselor appeared in the past full of this House to talk about this issue, and after recognizing that they did not do anything to meet, or to demand that the commitments, after saying that for this year of reopening fishing, nothing at all, after they did nothing to achieve that distribution of 1.14 % had changed and on the day of yesterday to throw against demanding the Government of the State the fulfilment of the fisheries agreements established in the ICES zone IXa, today the People's Party brings an initiative – they did – justly solemnize what is evident: that the Government of Galicia, which the Council of Galicia, assumes as itself a proposal already approved in the Sectoral Commission of the Galego Council of Fisheries. Mr. Balsairo, smoke, behind all of this there is nothing, nothing of nothing, a temporary commitment, not a single requirement for reopening the fisheries, nor for fulfilling the commitments acquired in the past, nor a request or change in distribution figures; nothing at all, ladies and gentlemen, only that the Government assumes as its own a proposal adopted by the Sectoral Commission of the Circle. Look, we, from the PSdEG, are already full of these issues, that one day the People's Party, when it's a government, says one thing and another when they come to Parliament and say the opposite. Yesterday you made the ridiculous, Mr. Balsairo, looking for a childish argument and schoolyard about a mistake I myself recognized. I gave you the chance – as you said in your speech – that you would be willing to vote in favour, but you didn't, and you didn't do it just because today you brought this initiative to talk about the same subject, and that has a name, it's called sectarianism, or that you're making numbers to keep your saddle in this Parliament. Look, the people in the fence are sick of the treatment you've been giving them in the last three years; they're being naïve, treating them like criminals, leaving them without fishing possibilities, in a limited situation, and I repeat that you're forcing them to play in the razor's thread. We really want the matter to be solved, but we believe that with initiatives of this silence and the depth that Mr Balsairo brings today, we are not going to solve anything at all. If you really want this matter to be solved, you exercise your powers as a government. The rest, Mr. Balsairo, nothing but theater. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u228	Thank you very much, Mr. Val. The author group of the non-law proposal, Mr. Balseiro Orol has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u229	Thank you very much, Madam President. I was talking about the Socialist Party's voice that we made the ridiculous yesterday. Man, if you did the ridiculous thing yesterday, I have to tell you it was you, and it was the Socialist Group. And what we voted for... No, no, but wait a minute because maybe you keep him standing, what we voted for yesterday, which we were talking about in an area of XIa... well, you can talk to him... [[Mr. Val Alonso pronounces words that are not perceived.]] [[Mr. Val Alonso pronounces words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u230	Silence, Mr. Val! Mr. Val!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u231	What you have to do is consult the House's Juridical Services, and tell them what we voted for yesterday, because you have to correct it, which can be corrected by means of a bug correction, before the debate, but not after the debate. So yesterday, we didn't vote for IXa at all. [[Murmurs.]] [[Protests.]] You won't think that because you were given the word, you did the correction, you didn't... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Well, I said this...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u232	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u233	That said, Madam President...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u234	Excuse me a moment, Mr. Balsairo. I'm asking you to listen, please. Mr. Balsairo has the floor. [[Murmurs.]] Mr. Balsairo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u235	Having said this, Madam President, there is a group – I will not waste my time – that I give you the same answer I gave you yesterday, because I said exactly the same thing as I said yesterday, which is the AGE group. [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] With regard to the amendment of the Joint Group, man, you seem to be trying to change an amendment, the replacement of an agreement, which is from the sector – I said it was not from the People's Party – by an agreement you proposed. At least in our group we're going to believe much more in the sector than we're going to believe in you; at least, that's why we're not going to accept the amendment. And you're talking about withdrawal prices in your amendment, but there's already a trade regulation agreement establishing the sector itself and talking about withdrawal prices. I don't know if you know that deal; if you know that, because I don't know how to put it in an amendment. And with regard to the amendment of the Galego Nationalist Block, which you speak of the quota percentage in the Atlantic, man!, you know that the mouth is a migratory species – you know it, I know it; of course, I know that it does – that it does not always appear in Galicia, that the average discharges between 1997 and 2013 was only 145,000 kilograms, that in 2014 it went up to 2.3 tons and that in 2015 we have risen to 3.3 tons. [[Murmurs.]] And at your request I have to tell you, Mr. Rhodes – which I know you know – that is a dangerous request, because if we question the distribution, as you ask, other autonomous communities will discuss that Galicia has, for example, 98% of the jury in the same area – that we have; in that area Galicia has 98% of the jury. And we put the distribution of the main species at risk. The main species of the fleet of the siege is the jury, which the fleet can fish every year. But you say...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u236	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u237	...—end, Madam President—what are we going to do about fishing for the mouth? And I say, how can you say that without getting colored? Because if we haven't made any progress today, what was going on in 2009? Because today we have 608% more in 2015 than we had in 2009.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u238	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u239	I'm done, Madam President, let me give this data nothing more. In 2009, 3,826 tonnes; in 2015, 27,118 tonnes...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u240	Thank you very much, Mr. Balsairo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u241	What did they say in Galicia, who ruled with the Socialist Party, and who said their group in Madrid, who supported the Socialist Party?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u242	Thank you, Mr. Balsairo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u243	I'm done, Madam President. Thank you. [[Applause]] G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. People of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr Miguel Ángel Tellado Filgueira and eight other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in relation to the management, operation, maintenance and maintenance of the sewage treatment plant and complementary facilities of the Priority cable
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u244	This motion for a non-law amendment was tabled by the Joint Group, the Left Galician Alternative and the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u245	To formulate the non-law proposal has the word Mr. Miguel Ángel Tellado Filgueira, of the People's Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u246	Thank you, Madam President. Environment, Transport and Infrastructure Adviser, Members, Ladies and gentlemen, very late for everyone. The healing of the river is an old claim from the city of Ferrol, an aspiration that they made of theirs and for which they have worked since the early 1990s various municipal corporations, from the head of the socialist Manuel Couce Pereiro, followed by the president by the popular Juan Blanco Rouco – who achieved the Declaration of Work of General Interest of the State in 1997 – and by all the mayors who followed them: Xaime Bello Costa – of the Nationalist Block Galego –, Juan Juncal, Vicente Irisarri and José Manuel Rey Varela. All of them, without distinction, converted the sanitation and purification of the laugh into one of their top priorities. And that's why everyone – I'm sure – celebrated EDAR's running post in September 2014 as a collective achievement, a achievement of all those who always wanted to serve the city of Ferrol. As you know, June 1, 2014 began the start-up and start-up period of the debug system, a period that still remains to date pending completion of the construction of all collectors and interceptors to increase the flow of waste water that reaches the Priority Cape EDAR. Despite this very advanced situation, but still unfinished, the new mayor of Ferrol, Jorge Suárez, has just announced several weeks ago his intention to disengage from the management of the Priority Cable Debugger Station under the pretext of the appearance of a series of alleged defectes in the own debugger station that up to the date were not warned by anyone. The decision announced by the local government was supposed to cancel the agreement that the local government signed with the autonomous body Waters of Galicia in June 2014, so the county of Ferrol assumed the order of the exploitation, maintenance and maintenance of the system of clearance of the right margin of the river, which includes the submarine emissary, the Priority cable EDAR, the terrestrial emissary of the Malata and the crossing and impulse of the Malata, which in turn includes the pumping of the Cabana. The cleansing and purification of the right bank of the river, which had been declared of general State interest in 1997, is therefore what we are talking about. By virtue of that statement, the work was executed and financed by the Northern Hydrographic Confederation between September 2003 and August 2010 by an amount close to EUR 98 million, of which the Galician Union contributed around 15. In particular, the works expanded between 2003 and 2010. On that date they were received by the Hydrographic Confederation. Four years later they would be handed over to the Council of Galicia and then made available to the Council of Ferrol. Despite the importance of this infrastructure, the new mayor of the city has announced his decision to disengage from the management of the debugger, forgetting that it is the Ferrol Town Hall who has the competences in sanitation and debugging, in accordance with article 25 of the Local Plans Act. It seems that the new mayor forgets that the sanitation of the river is vital not only in environmental terms but also in economic terms, as 500 families live from the seafood in the railroad. It is important to remember that the debugger was launched in August 2014 by the municipal company Emafesa with which the Town Council subscribes a concerted execution protocol for the management, operation, maintenance and maintenance of the sanitation and purification system, as approved by the Full of the municipal corporation of Ferrol on May 29, 2014. In the municipal reports issued by the municipal company Emafesa, dependent on the Council of Ferrol, it is indicated that the treatment of purification that has been in operation up to this time consisted of pre-decantation and airing during the seven kilometres of terrestrial emissary, in the tamisation of fines in mechanized grids, in the desirate, in the degreasing and in the dilution of the submarine emissary. Therefore, technical reports from the municipal company itself dependent on the Town Hall confirm that the mayor's claims are false when it claims that the debugger did not purge a single cubic meter of water. In all the progress reports of the debugger, it was warned that this start-up and start-up period would be conditioned until the works of the interceptors and the collectors planned for within a few weeks. Only at that moment can the debugger have the minimum flow required to complete all stages of debugging, with the set-up of biological treatment, which is the final phase of debugging. That's why it's undeniable that since September 2014 – a year ago – they've stopped pouring into the middle of the 2.2 million cubic metres of faecial water stream, dealing in the debugger and pouring after the treatment of debugging outside the river through the submarine emissary. It is therefore believed that the new mayor falsely denounced that the water had reached the debugger and that it was not treated, with the only incentive that to desist from the difficult task of the process and put in place of the debugger and thus to be able to justify the fulfilment of a candidly irresponsible electoral promise, from our point of view, that it was not to charge the rate of sanitation that obliges the law. In short, it is the Ferrol Town Hall that has the responsibility to develop, exploit, maintain and maintain these debugging facilities that have already been made available to the Town Hall. However, the new heater is demonstrating that EDAR is not working properly by the existence of filters in the installations. There are several reports about these defects: one from the Hydrographic Confederation, which was the Administration that executed and received the works. The Hydrographic Confederation has indicated that the debugger possesses in the debugging processes the necessary duplicates to be able to perform repairs, alternating the operation of the equipment and warehouses, so that the installation set is not stopped from starting and the dimensions of the filtrations in no case prevent the plant's activity. In addition, a few days ago, Galician Water Technicians conducted a inspection visit of the facilities that resulted in a technical report gathering the actions to be carried out by the Ferrol Council so that the debugger is in a position to give adequate treatment to the entire flow – which will arrive in the coming weeks in October – and can comply with the sequential start provided for in the protocol signed by the Ferrol Council with its municipal water company. Furthermore, through the press, we were able to know that the AEOPAS association, the Spanish Association of Public Water and Sanitation Operators – which was invited by the mayor himself to visit the debugger – also indicates that these filtrations – and I read textually what their representatives said – are very minor problems that do not affect the operation of the plant and that "the concrete is good; there are cracks that can be solved in three days". They point that out from the entity, pointing out, by the way, that the Priority cable debugger is an infrastructure of the best existing in Spain. I mean, the Priority cable debugger has the capacity to treat fecal fecal water from the feces and now it's the Ferrol Town Hall that's responsible for getting to work: repair the cracks, finish the setup and continue completing the start-up process of the installations started a year ago to get everything running full performance when the works of the collectors and the intercepters are finished within a few weeks. So things, and in view of the attitude that the new municipal government is maintaining with respect to the sewage treatment station, is why we have introduced this initiative; an initiative with which we intend to ensure that the administrations involved ensure the operation of EDAR, where 98 million euros have been invested. What we demand is to ensure, with all legal instruments at our disposal, that the Ferrol Council fulfils its acquired obligations in relation to the management, operation, maintenance and maintenance of EDAR and complementary facilities, at all times ensuring the sanitation and purification of Ferrol's waste water according to its own competences and that it collects in Article 25 of the Law of Local Regime Bases. And we also urge Together to cooperate from the technical and advisory point of view on all kinds of matters to the Ferrol Council to complete this process of connecting all the clean-up network interceptors to complete the phase of the sanitation system, according to the planned plan. Sanitation and purification of waste water is an undeniable goal for all ferro-lanes – it is for all previous municipal governments – a common task that is shared to date by Junta de Galicia, the Government of Spain and the various municipal corporations. The time has come for the completion of the debugger's implementation, everyone must comply with their obligations: the Union, the Hydrographic Confederation and, of course, the Council of Ferrol. That is what we demand with this initiative, and therefore we ask for the support of this House's group. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u247	Thank you very much, Mr. Tellado. Intervention of the groups. Joint Group, Mrs. Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u248	Thank you, President. On May 29 of last year it was approved by the Council of Ferrol that Urbaser, the private partner of Emafesa, had managed the ferrous EDAR with the inconformity of several municipalities. A year later, the new mayor of Ferrol, Jorge Suárez, and the local government concellers came in to denounce that the Priorino cable-clearing station has not cleaned up a cubic meter of water since August 2014. The Council will take the case to the courts and will require that the Urbaser Group, the ACS Group, the technical manager of the municipal water company, return the money charged to the railways and pay compensation, since although it has not covered the sanitation it has paid citizens between 40 and 70 per cent of euros per receipt. According to the local government, some of the facilities managed by Urbaser were not working and the waste water coming out of the sea through the submarine emissary was not cleared. The local government reports that the labs in the enclosure were unused, the instructions manuals within the apparatuses, and the water coming out of the sea was completely black. The Emafesa water company admitted to the Town Hall that since January the plant only worked from 8 to 15 hours in very timely moments and only for the disposal of solid waste, which is recognized by the company itself, but the People's Party doesn't recognize it. However, in March, the former local government – of the People's Party – and the Environment Advisor ensured that the facility had already cleared 1.5 million cubic metres. Lies. And then they ask us to believe them! The Consistory's complaint is based on the report made by the municipal technicians who conclude: "On this inspection visit, we were able to verify that the Emafesa company is not managing and exploiting the EDAR sanitation and purification system, as waste water leaves the plant without debugging. In this situation, for the purpose of assessing the responsibilities that Emafesa has with the Council of Ferrol under the Agreed Implementation Protocol for the management, operation, maintenance and maintenance of the sanitation and purification system, I propose that the company Emafesa document, believe and justify its activity in EDAR since the date of entry into force of the said Protocol." In theory, treatment should meet three phases, as the People's Party recognizes in its initiative, before returning to the sea through a submarine emissary. Waste water is only receiving the first treatment – considered pretreatment to eliminate solid waste –, the second and third phase of sludge and methane decantation and biological filtration are not being affected. That's why there is no sense of justification or lack of institutional respect for the mayor of Ferrol, which the PP expresses in this non-law proposal, when it reduces, on the one hand, the whole scandal accompanying the Head of Cape Town EDAR to the lack of dialogue between the mayor and the private partner. It's a personal problem for the People's Party. The new mayor falsely denounced, according to the People's Party, and claim that the complaint is false without any kind of verification, despite the fact that the private partner recognized the truthfulness of the complaint. They say it's the Ferrol Town Hall that has the skills in sanitation and purification, but they forget that the previous mayor also had the same responsibilities and allowed the situation to reach where it came from. It refers to the initial reports of EDAR's activity to justify and therefore recognise that water actually leaves the sea without debugging. That, Mr. Tellado, you say it on your own initiative and you recognize it, because water is either purified or not purified; that partial purification is an invention by the People's Party, just as it is an invention by the People's Party the deferred finites, you love to invent things. The Government of Ferrol will issue to Urbaser, the private partner of Emafesa, responsibilities for this fraud, claim that the amount charged to the neighbors in respect of the fee for a service he did not provide is returned. I fully agree with the local government of Ferrol in demanding Urbaser responsibilities for this fraud and the return of the defendant wrongly to the citizens. But besides, you yourself in point 2 of your resolution...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u249	It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u250	...–I've finished–, you recognize this because you said to collaborate to complete the connection of all interceptors to the sanitation network until you complete the phases of it; i.e., debugging cannot be completed because phases are missing in the process. I present a replacement amendment that says: "The Galician Parliament urges the Union to offer its collaboration and advice to the Council of Ferrol to take the case to the courts and demand that the Urbaser company return the money unduly charged to and to the citizens and pay the corresponding compensation." We think this is really...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u251	Thank you very much, Mrs. Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u252	...which corresponds to this case.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u253	Parliamentary Group of the Alternative Left Glaga, has the word dona Yolanda Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u254	Good afternoon, Counselor. We are very grateful that you are here in this debate because we believe you will be sufficiently concerned about what happened in the county of Ferrol and, above all, about the management that the People's Party has made in this catastrophe and about this fraud managed by the People's Party that you belong to. I am also particularly grateful to you that you are here because, as Mrs Martínez has just said in this House, the People's Party has lied, lied and continues to lie on this initiative, so we are now going to vote against. Look, Counselor, this one here is you, right? You can look, be polite. This one that's here is you in March this year, I campaigned. And on this same date you said exactly that they were clearing a million and a half cubic meters. False, and this is you, false! Look, these are the images we have in Ferrol, these. This is the debugging medium. Be a little polite, Counselor, that you were here, and watch and see. [[Murmurs.]] This is what we have in Ferrol, in case you're interested, because he's going to touch you too, Counselor; look how the images come out, look, the open pipe, no problem. [[Protests.]] This is the debugging with which you and the People's Party said, with the former mayor of Ferrol, that they were clearing a million and a half cubic metres; this is the reality. Of course, we're going to vote against this initiative for a reason. First of all, by falsehood and, secondly, Mr Tellado, because you on this initiative do not ask all administrations to comply with their legal obligations, you on this initiative what you do is partyism and ask – and I literally – the county of Ferrol to meet – only the county of Ferrol – your obligations. I'm going to read you some precepts – tell me later – I'm going to read our replacement amendment, which is why we're going to vote against. Look, first, with regard to the obligations under that agreement which has been signed, as I suppose you know very well, in the third clause tell us, indeed, that Galician Waters reserves itself – and I literally read – "the functions of inspection and control over the goods whose use is ordered and on the form of service delivery". Inspection that never occurred, so we've seen, even a counselor and a former mayor come up saying that we were clearing a million and a half cubic metres. But secondly, and I continue to point out, clause 4(3) says: "They are the powers of the acting Council to carry out the internal reform and the necessary construction actions for the fulfilment of the agreed purposes" and says, " Except those who have the consideration of reform works or great reparations", which is in front of where we are here. Therefore, excuse – on the part of the People's Party – not small, accusation manifests. They bring this initiative because they know they have committed sin, they have committed the crime. And look, we would only vote in favour of this initiative if they actually vote in favour of the text we propose and that is exactly what it says: The Greek Parliament urges the Galician Union to: 1. To ensure with all legal instruments within its reach that the Public Authority of Galicia Waters, dependent on the Galician Union, fulfils the obligations acquired in respect of the management, operation, maintenance and conservation of EDAR. 2. That guarantees the urgent funding of repairs – qualified by technicians as "great damage" – that needs the EDAR of Cape Prioriño. 3. May the Board make available to the Prosecutor all the information he has in his hands – the same as he will do and is already making the county of Ferrol. 4. That, indeed, this Parliament agrees to open an investigation committee to know what has happened. 5. The People's Party in Ferrol, and it's seen that its voices now instead of defending people's interests and voting in coherence with the Council of Ferrol when it urged the suspension of the sanitation rate, that large mass of mass fraud...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u255	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u256	...in which you were charging for a service that was not lent, what they did was vote for the interests of the private part of Emafesa; and they also voted, though away, saying as Chelo Martínez had already said that they could not actually be on the board of directors because they had to defend or that they would have a meeting between defending the interests of the council or the private company, actually, you... No, no, they didn't support the mayor of the city of Ferrol when it was evident from the technical reports... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u257	Finish it, Mrs. Díaz, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u258	...and I shall conclude, Madam President, that the manager of Emmafesa had to be stopped. You said no, you once again defending the FCC...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u259	Thank you very much, Mrs. Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u260	Florentino Pérez. So, Mr. Tellado, unless you admit this substitution proposal, of course, we will vote against and we would like you to explain to us...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u261	Thank you, Mrs. Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u262	...if we are not right, why does not accept this Parliament's commission of inquiry. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u263	Socialist Group, Mrs. Sestayo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u264	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, only someone who lacks the slightest sense of shame can present an initiative like this. In fact, as Article 248 of the Criminal Code states, "those who, in a profit-oriented way, use a lot of deception (...)" to induce "to perform an act of disposition to the detriment of themselves or others". The previous government of Ferrol, in complicity with the administrations of the People's Party and the private company of Florentine, imposed a fee whose taxable object... Madam President, it's hard for me to speak. [[Murmurs.]] Madam President, it's hard for me to talk to the nerves of the People's Party. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u265	Mrs. Sestayo. Quiet and quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u266	With the management of the fee for the provision of the waste water purification service, which shall be rejected by this tax order. This rate was imposed and collected a million euros, almost a million euros, between citizens and citizens of Ferrol, between citizens and citizens who were convinced that the waters were being cleared. Almost a million euros collected by the People's Party governments for this reason!, by these black waters that are the crystal clear, clear and crystal clear waters that the former mayor of Ferrol, the representatives of the People's Party, the members of the Faijó government councillors and members of the state government said they were clearing themselves; these are the crystal clear waters of Mr Tellado by which, in fact, nearly one million euros were charged to the citizens and citizens of Ferrol in a huge fraud proper to the worst times and worst practices of the People's Party. In fact, on a surprise visit by the new Government of Ferrol, the new Government that finds itself with crystal clear water facilities – here we see the crystal clear waters – in which, in fact, several electoral acts in which you have participated, Madam Counsellor, the Hydrographic Conference delivers and receives waters of Galicia, waters of Galicia signs and delivers to the Council of Ferrol with a management order for this objective: purifying the waters and, in addition, the Council of Galicia reserves inspection and control powers. Counselor, what were they inspecting and controlling? What did you see when you came to the debugger station? What crystal clear waters exist in this picture, Counselor? What did you see? Did you know Mr. Feijóo? Which one of you took part in this huge fraud? Who sat at that table in Cedera where they eat representatives of the People's Party with representatives of these companies? The fact is that in the council of administering Emafesa of the new Government what the private company reports is that the former municipal government did not demand control, that this was a new practice, that by the waters of Galicia there was no control, but that, in addition, they were in agreement because at four meetings produced in the Council of Galicia – not in the debugger – what they were told was that the debugger did not depurate. That's what his friends, Florentine's company, say, that the Galician Union knew perfectly well that it didn't clear. They obviously say that, after the election visit, it was...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u267	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u268	...it's easy to know they weren't hurrying. In addition, they argue a damage of 550,000 euros, which they just discover when they change the municipal government, as they find out about some and some that it is necessary for an electrical supply to function, just in the change of the municipal government. For a year there was a non-degradable plant, no electrical installation, no operators and devices, with facilities like the government of Ferrol, sealed installations, unused appliances, closed laboratories, plastics and even labels. That's what he found... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u269	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u270	...the municipal government of Ferrol. It was a huge fraud to citizenship, and the answer from the Galician Waters, given to this honourable Member the other day, is that, of course, the fault is...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u271	Finish, please, Mrs. Sestayo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u272	...the government of Ferrol, which doesn't inspect a year later, the government of Ferrol, which doesn't inspect. This is the inheritance, the inheritance of black waters...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u273	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u274	...the inheritance of the waste, the inheritance of the non-purification, but if the responsibilities in prosecution will be cleared...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u275	Thank you very much, Mrs. Sestayo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u276	...if political responsibilities, legal responsibilities and criminal responsibilities will be cleansed. And only someone who is not ashamed are able to present this initiative, someone like you, Mr. Tellado. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u277	Thank you very much, Mrs. Sestayo. Nationalist Block Galego. You have the floor to Mrs. Pontón Mondelo. Please be quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u278	Well, we're also here today at lunch talking about an important issue, as is the serious problem with the purification and sanitation of waste water in this case in the Ferrol River, a laugh that has serious pollution problems and that today comes here the debate in a unique way – everyone has to say – because I have to admit that I am not ferrola but as a galley I also understand that it is part of my country, I am very surprised that the People's Party, which rules in Galicia, that it has direct competences in the area of sanitation, purification, that it also collects one of the water in theory to ensure good management of our water, because here it is opposed to the Ferrol Council, I suppose that because the People's Party is very interested and because the People's Party knows that there are many other responsibilities that it has to impose on this debugger. Because the first question or the first one that scandalizes us, members of a nationalist force, is that this work was declared of general interest in the year 97 and 2015 what we see is that we have a chapuza, a chapuza, which does not solve the problem, and scandalizes us to see how public money was spent on building because in theory of a debugger that at the time of truth is not working. And I think this, if we were a country where there was a sense of institutional responsibility, the first thing we would do as Greeks and Greeks would be to tell the state: "Lords of the State," what did they build here? What responsibility does the State have on this issue? And here comes the second actor, who is Galician Union. The advisor is here. The adviser, if you like, can do it, since the Rules allow him, take the floor and clarify us: how did he receive this work in Galicia? I think it's a normal question. I don't know, okay. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u279	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u280	And didn't the Confederation transfer it to Galician Union? Oh, oh, oh, oh! All right, all right. So, the Galician Union, when they pass this debugger, what do you say? What are you doing? How was he? Did he demand something from the Confederation, or is it that the Board is simply a reseller who assumes a work and then nothing happens? Because, as far as I know – and if not, to correct me here the expert in matter – there is an agreement between the Galician Waters and the Ferrol Town Hall for the formalization of the farm management order. Or isn't this true? So, who transfers it to the Ferrol Town Hall? Galician Union. And what's PP coming here? To say that they are sisters of charity and that they have nothing to do with this problem. The tactic of all this legislation by Mr Feijóo: I rule, I am President of the Union, but I am never responsible for anything in this country. It's always the fault of the Government of Madrid when it doesn't rule the PP or the Town Councils when it doesn't rule the People's Party. It's really a dantesque show, especially because Ferrol's laugh has a very serious pollution problem, and to you, who I think lives there, the only thing that worries you is a rag with which you just want to conceal the responsibilities of the People's Party in all this fraud. So, if you were serious and if the advisor, because she also wanted to clarify us here today – that the Rules allow it – because it would be interesting for the debate, because this whole situation, of course, seems to us to be very scandalous. How scandalous – and should also and can explain to us, Mr. Tellado – why the PP decides to privatize the management of this debugger. Why? Why? You explain it, and you explain it, that it's going to have another point. And what did you do all this time when there was a problem with debugging? Look the other way, let the company do whatever it wants, don't worry and try to cover up, hide the problems until it's all gone and don't get the shit under the carpets anymore? I think that's a very bad policy and that we're paying for the incompetence, of course, of who you've been managing this, of who you've done a work, and of whom you've not been worried about taking care of the situation. This proposal does not seem to us to be a genuine coat of hair, and of course I think that the People's Party, which has a great deal of responsibility for the serious pollution situation in Ferrol's creek...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u281	Finish it, Mrs. Pontón, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u282	...you should come here to something more than to do. I believe that up to the sad role of opposition of the Ferrol Council in the Galician Parliament.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u283	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Group author of the non-law proposal. Mr. Tellado has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u284	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs. Pontón, understand that I have three minutes and I won't be able to explain to you how the debugger station works. What I can tell you and Mrs. Díaz is that we have set up the debugger station, which has been operating for a year and that what the municipal government of Ferrol - Socialist Party and Alternative Left Gaga, which is called otherwise - is precisely to stop it. What I have to tell you is that you don't count on the People's Party to cooperate with that strategy. Mrs. Díaz, education lessons for her part to the counsellor of MATI, understand that no, and engineering lessons, I don't think honestly either. [[Murmurs.]] The first thing I have to show is my surprise because the fact is that PSOE and AGE, who rule, cogovern in Ferrol, come here and present contradictory amendments to each other. They're not able to agree either to make amends, it's obvious that the situation of the ferrous bipartite must not be any good. [[Murmurs.]] His amendments that make manifest are a belligerent spirit of the Government of Ferrol against all administrations. They have a problem, and since they don't know how to solve it, what they're looking for is who blames them. They unleash irresponsibility, because, far from assuming their powers, those which are own to the Council of Ferrol, what they seek are excuses for failing to comply with their obligations. Seeing the behavior of the mayor and the two honourable Members who spoke here, of Mrs. Díaz and Mrs. Sestayo, I think that there are many threads for very little puppet, that is the feeling that I have of what happens in the Ferrol Town Hall, and that, of course, it will all end quite badly in Ferrol, as it has happened a few years ago. [[Interruptions.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u285	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u286	This is what happens when mayors don't choose their citizens, Mrs. Sestayo...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u287	Mrs. Sestayo!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u288	...that's what happens when the mayors choose us citizens. You talk about privatizing services. I'm surprised you're talking about these business interest stories, because you know, Mrs. Díaz, who privatized and outsourced all the municipal services, except water, in Ferrol? A two-party PSOE-Left United. Look, garbage collection service, privatized by you; road cleaning service, for you; road maintenance, for you; maintenance parks and gardens, privatized by you; public lighting service, privatized by you; municipal collection, for you; home support service, for Mrs. Sestayo; cleaning of municipal buildings, for you. [[Murmurs.]] Ladies and gentlemen, you are the friends of these companies, you are precisely when they rule.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u289	Mrs. Sestayo, you speak shame.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u290	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u291	I'm just not going to answer you, just let me send you the voice of Galicia. The Galician Voice Survey: Do you think it's ethical that Beatriz Sestayo holds office in the Council and Parliament? Yes, 3%; no, 94%. Everything is said, Mrs. Sestayo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u292	Finish, please, Mr. Tellado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u293	So you taught me... "Thank you." [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u294	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u295	...a few photographs. I have to tell you that those images...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u296	Mr. Tellado, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u297	... of dirty waters correspond to a period: that of the government of the two-party Ferrol in Joint Socialist Party of Beatriz Sestayo. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u298	Mr. Tellado, thank you very much. Let's move on to the vote on non-legislation proposals... [[Interruptions.]] Yes, Mr. Méndez Romeo, why do you want the word?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u299	To welcome and decorate me because of the members of this group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u300	Quiet, please! The spokesman has the floor. You've got a minute if you consider... the spokesman has a word for a minute.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u301	Madam President, the members of this House are sheltered by the freedom of expression in a liberal way, but in a liberal way, it does not authorize any member of this group to use as an argument of authority a request for resignation that comes out of what interests. We demand that the debate be kept here in accordance specifically with the agenda and that these allusions be withdrawn from Mr Tellado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u302	Thank you very much, Mr. Méndez Romeo. There's a record of his complaint. I suppose Mr. Tellado takes those allusions from Mr. Méndez Romeo. Sorry, it doesn't open debate, of course not.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u303	No, no. Whoever resigns seems to be the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u304	Mr. Tellado, I didn't give you the floor. Mr. Tellado!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u305	I have to tell you that the data I gave you are a citizen inquiry into the voice of Galicia. Nothing else. It's the citizenship that calls for Mrs. Sestayo's resignation.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u306	Mr. Tellado, Mr. Tellado, I didn't give you the floor. [[Murmurs.]] Quiet, please! I didn't give Mr. Tellado the floor. [[Interruptions.]] [[Murmurs.]] We passed the vote on the non-law proposals. Voting of non-legislative proposals
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u307	We started with the vote on the non-legislative motion by the Galician Nationalist Bloc Parliamentary Group, on the initiative of Mrs Adam, who said that he did not accept the amendment of the Joint Group. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da María do Carme Adán Villamarín and D. Francisco Jesús Jorquera Caselas, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in relation to the naval sector of Ferrol The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. This proposal is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u308	We voted on the proposal by the Parliamentary Group of the Gaga de Left Alternative, on the initiative of Mr Vázquez, to which no amendments have been tabled. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. on the initiative of Mr. José Javier Ron Fernández and two other Members, on the actions to be taken by the Government of Greece in connection with the cooperation agreement signed by the Council of Galicia with the Ministry of Defence for the establishment of a drone test base in the Rozas aerodrome, in the Town Hall of Castro de Rey The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. This proposal is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u309	We voted in favour of the Galego Nationalist Bloc Parliamentary Group, at the initiative of Mrs Pontón Mondelo, who I believe said he did not accept the socialist amendment. Yes, I'm sorry? Yeah, but now he didn't say anything. [[Mrs. Pontón Mondelo speaks words that are not perceived.]] Do you want the vote for...? It's the two paragraphs, more than points. Well, then we voted the first of the non-law sections of the Galician Nationalist Block. Voting of the first paragraph of the G.P. Non-Law Proposition. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo, on the establishment of a parliamentary commission of research for the analysis of the operation and management of the Fundación Camilo José Cela, as well as the action to be carried out by the Government of Greece in this regard The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. This paragraph is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u310	We voted for the second paragraph of the proposal. Vote of the second paragraph of the G.P. Non-law. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo, on the establishment of a parliamentary commission of research for the analysis of the operation and management of the Fundación Camilo José Cela, as well as the action to be carried out by the Government of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 16; against, 58. The result of the vote is negative. This second subparagraph is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u311	We then proceeded to vote on the proposal from the Parliamentary Group of the Gaga de Left Alternative, at the initiative of Mr Beiras, who said that he accepted the amendment of the Nationalist Block Galego. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. on the action to be taken in relation to the economic crisis situation of the European Union. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. This proposal is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u312	We are voting on the proposal from the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr Docasar, which I believe does not accept the amendments tabled. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of Mr Ricardo Vicente Docasar Docasar and two other Members, on the actions to be carried out in Galician Union in order to slow down the implementation schedule of LOMCE. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 17 votes against, 41; abstentions, 15. The result of the vote is negative. This proposal is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u313	We voted in favour of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mrs Acuña do Campo, to which no amendments have been tabled. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Yeah? If no group has a problem with voting on points on the joint initiative, we would first of all vote on the first of the points. Voting of the first point of the Proposal is not G.P.'s law. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of Da María Carme Acuña do Campo and two other Members, on the entry into force of the National Plan for the Approach to Hepatitis C in the National Health System and its application in the area of prisons in Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. The first point of the non-law proposal is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u314	Disloyen, please, the guest gallery. We voted on the second point of the non-legislative proposal of the Socialist Group. Vote for the second point of the Proposal, not G.P. law. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of Da María Carme Acuña do Campo and two other Members, on the entry into force of the National Plan for the Approach to Hepatitis C in the National Health System and its application in the area of prisons in Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. The second point of the non-law proposal is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u315	We are voting on the proposal from the Galician People's Parliamentary Group, on the initiative of Mr Balseiro Orol, who does not accept the amendments tabled. [[Mr. Beiras Torrado pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Mr. Beiras, we are voting, please. Mr. Beers, I'm not listening. If they all talk to me at once, I don't listen. So, Mr. Beers, please keep it quiet. Quiet, please! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. People of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr José Manuel Balsairo Orol, on fishing for boarfish in the ICES zone IXa, adopted by the Sectoral Commission for the Research of the Galician Fisheries Council. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 40; votes against, 30. The voting is positive. This proposal is therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u316	We are voting on the last of the non-legislative proposals of the People's Parliamentary Group, which does not accept the amendments tabled. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. Popular of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr. Miguel Ángel Tellado Filgueira and eight other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in relation to the management, operation, maintenance and maintenance of the sewage treatment plant and complementary facilities of the Prioriño cable. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 41; votes against, 33. The voting is positive. This proposal is therefore adopted. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Agenda Change
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u317	Before suspending the meeting, I would like to inform you that question No. 41649 by Mrs. Acuña, of the Socialist Group, will be put into effect at the first hour this afternoon; and then the two petitions will be made to the Health Council; the first, of the BNG, of Mrs. Prado, and the second, of the Socialist Group, of Mrs. Acuña. We suspended the session until 4:30 p.m. this afternoon.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u318	Let's resume the session with the next item on the agenda, with the question mark. Interpellation of G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da María Montserrat Prado Cores, on closing hospital beds during the summer months
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u319	Yes, but I've already spoken to Mrs. Acuña and I've spoken to Mrs. Prado, and then the interrogation is with Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u320	Good afternoon to all and to all. Mrs. Mosquera, today morning the president of the board said loudly that Vigo's hospital is a pride for those who defend public health. My first consideration, in this appeal to you by the Galician Nationalist Block, is whether you agree with the president of the Union that it is the pride of those who defend public health. You should ask if you and the president defend public health. But, well, since he had that verbal seizure, I ask him. Look, there's a strike on Vigo for the 13th of October. The latest information says that surgical interventions have been paralyzed because of problems with sterilization, and that in admission there are already problems in bed sharing, that the beds are no longer coming; that there are already bed problems in emergencies; that there is a mix of pathologies – which, for example, a patient pending to intervene by an appendicitis, wanted to enter them into a pneumology plant –; the previous quote overflowed, queued for more than an hour due to lack of forecast. The garbage compactor has been destroyed: waste accumulation in plants, the withdrawal circuit of the same inadequate, dirty uniforms... Look, the caps and caps are closed since Monday because you, in that continued lie that you do not privatize Vigo hospital, it turns out that they privatize part of the orders that in the Professional Statute are the responsibility of the caps and the caps. And today the rest of the Personal Meeting has been closed. What are they asking for? Real assessment of the situation – the same as we have demanded here –; measures to correct the situation; reversion of the hospital to public health. And that these measures to correct the situation are taken care of, if paid, at the cost of the cannon that must be paid to the company. I ask you if you will correct, Mrs Mosquera, and I ask you not to persist in this fearful act, to listen to the workers and the workers and to be, for once, the public health advisor. Just as we ask you today, and we're going to ask you in this appeal, if you're going to rectify the constant closure of hospital beds and if you're going to continue maintaining that the massive closure of hospital beds has no consequences. Look, today's September 30th, you've spent another year closing up an indecent number of beds in Galician hospitals. And you didn't dare come here to explain why he was closing all those beds. I asked him if he'd wait until the municipal elections passed to announce it. Indeed, he waited for the municipal elections to pass; but you didn't have the courage to come here to explain why he closed them, he sent a general director to give his face for you. For you it is increasingly easier to close beds, whole units, whole plants, during the summer; but it turns out that each year it becomes more difficult to open itself at the end of the summer. You also persist in reducing value to what you call a bed-resource. It insists that it does not determine the degree of efficiency of the system. He continues to send patients home to do their postoperative work, to stabilize themselves at home after surgical interventions or medical processes, to find patients a more comfortable place – their textual words, Mrs. Mosquera. Thus, it is clear that the bed resource is less and less valuable, because you print that value to you at the expense of the pockets of patients and the families of the patients. Just like the value of health care; you have a direct impact on families, who have to care for patients, and especially women. Then the bed-resource is less and less important because it puts the patient directly. They come to this conclusion that the bed-resource has less and less value, and then what is the next step? Then install devices, computer equipment, at the patient's house; install video cameras, microphones... the last thing is to give chronic patients a tablet so they can take control themselves. And what is the consequence of this? For Telefónica, Indra, Philips... I mean, business for companies that place all those devices that replace the bed resource, that replace the health care resource. And, look, the Galician hospital network only has reduced the number of beds. In the Black Sexnione, since the People's Party in 2009 returned to the Government of the United States – the Black Sexnio – it turns out that Galicia has been lost, closed or left on the way to more than 600 beds, about 100 beds a year. In 2010 there were 830 and the latest data are that we now have 1,315, more than 600 beds closed, less in public health. But the question is how many more open in private health, Mrs. Mosque? If the bed resource is becoming less valuable, why do beds increase in private health? Does it turn out that private companies now decide to expand beds? You've also said on several occasions that you're an advisor to the public and the private, why don't you approve, then, criteria? Why do you close beds in public health and open up in private health? It's a question I'd like you to answer on your behalf, Mrs Mosquera. And look, they hurryed to close their beds, but it turns out they don't have that rush to open them later. The situation at the moment – he has put several examples – in Lugo, in HULA, there are still closed beds in all the specialties. The Surgeon plant was closed all summer long and with patients wasted throughout the hospital, an average of 25 or 30 patients each day. This is the same situation as last year they did to the hierarchy. At this point, you say they're going to open the plant, you don't know when they're going to do it; but, in any case, what they've announced is that they're going to open it with 20 beds, that is, 14 minus what existed. They also say they're going to open Internal Medicine with 20; i.e. 14 less than there was; they're going to open Jericho with only 20, 14 less than there was; i.e. 42 less beds. And this one has to add that it turns out they won't open the Urology plant. We have found that urology patients will be mixed with other pathologies – with otorrino, with trauma... – which, as we all know, are pathologies all very closely. So, Mrs. Moquera, will you open all the closed beds this summer at the HULA? When are you going to open them? Is it true they're going to close 42, and the Urology plant won't open? Look, let me give you another example. There are few dates the Nationalist Block Galego has brought to this Parliament an initiative in which, among other things, we demanded that the third floor of the Salnés Hospital be immediately opened, which you also closed early in June. A hospital with a very small number of beds and it turns out the whole third floor has been closed. The People's Party, which supports the Government of what you are part of, voted against that request, that this third floor should be opened immediately. So does it mean that the third floor of the Salnés Hospital won't open tomorrow, October 1st? Mrs. Mosque, I'd like you to answer. I can keep telling you. In Pontevedra, 18 beds – 9 of onco and 9 of lactants – will continue to be closed, with which this theory that you so much like to repeat, that there is less assistance demand, you will tell me, in these two specialties, what assistance demand refers to. In the Coruña, 50 are still closed, and we can follow this: in Ferrol, 32 in the naval, 10 in Pediatrics; in Compostela, in Conxo, the plant of Pneumology is closed, the Gil Casares has closed the entire plant of Internal Medicine, 9 in Palliative Care. Well, we could keep doing a little bit of what the situation is. I'd like you to explain what your claim is. Look, you keep persisting in that there is no consequences of closing beds, and I say yes. First, consequences? Very diverse pathologies on the same plant, care overload, professionals forced to know everything – because they don't know what kind of specialty they have to deal with on each plant – frustration. Peregrination through the hospital to visit patients and travel from different specialities as well. Work equipment where all professionals have to know everything. Do you think this is excellence and that this allows for quality assistance, Mrs Mosquera? What I'm telling you is that this means risk and worst quality of care. It's not the same work in an orderly way as working at the parlor, as you're forcing professionals to do.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u321	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u322	Nothing to do with efficiency and good resource management; absolutely nothing to do with it. And if it's about continuing private diversions, work at home, loss of healthcare quality, demobilization of professionals, loss of jobs, loss of work rights, a portfolio of fictional health services, emergency pressure, increased waiting lists... in sum, destruction of public health, in addition to what I've already asked you, Mrs Mosquera, I ask you, will you ratify your bed closing policy? Still keeping the bed-resource...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u323	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u324	...don't bring value? Why do you think private companies persist in keeping the bed resource if you insist that it has no value? And will you persist in your infamous labour policy with Sergas staff? I'm waiting for your answers, Mrs. Mosquera.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u325	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. You have the floor now, the health counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u326	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, ladies. Good afternoon, Mrs. Prado. Once again, I come to this House to answer this question: the usual assistance reorganization in the summer period, which you repeatedly ask. As you may well suppose, the answer will not vary too much – you said it – because the circumstances are the same, except for specific figures. The Galego Health Service plans every year, before the summer season, the number of beds that will be running during the summer. You know this is not a peculiarity of the Galego Health Service, but it's something that happens every year in all health services. As it shows, in last year 2014 more than 86% of the total beds available in public hospitals were operational. As a matter of fact, the overall employment index in 2014 was 77.7%, compared to 77.5 in 2013. In 2014, pending the closing of September, I can tell you that the percentages were even lower: 74.9 % in June, 76.5% in July and 75.9 % in August; that is, 1 out of 4 operational beds has been unemployed. In addition, no month has been reached at 85%, which is the recognized standard throughout the literature. As for the Salnes hospital – of which you were speaking specifically – I have to tell you that the occupation rate was in July of 54.4%, in July of 53.58% and in August of 58.49%. As you can see, an index of occupation almost round half of what is recognized as optimal throughout the literature. So we do our duty to efficiently manage the public funds that the citizenship of Galicia makes available to us. Doing so differently – as you seem to expect – would be a difficultly justified overthrow of these funds. Obviously, from any point of view, it makes little sense to keep beds open – as you say – that they will be unemployed. Once again, I have to insist on something that has also been heard many times; the decision on the scope of this programming is taken into account the primary responsibility of the Greek public health to ensure at all times the safety and the care quality of patients. Furthermore, if needed for assistance reasons, beds that are not used at any given time can be activated at any time, we have demonstrated it on many occasions. As a matter of fact, this programming allows us to efficiently manage the regulatory vacations of our professionals. Summer, as in many other sectors, is the most demanding period for staff for their vacations, and we undoubtedly respect this right. This, of course, conditions the need to replace the workers. This substitution is not possible - and you know it well - in certain optional staff specialties, which implies that the assistance equipment needed for certain functions is incomplete. In any case, the Galego Health Service performs this performance following its policy of improving efficiency in the management and rational use of our physical and human resources, maintaining all the clinical activity that is possible and, essentially, ensuring attention in those processes that obviously do not allow delay. In fact, the activity continues to increase, the surgical activity. In June, July and August of this year, we performed – the professionals performed – 43.315 surgical interventions, compared to 38.475 in 2010. I mean, 5,000 interventions more in these three months than in 2010. Interventions increased in all centres and throughout all these years. On the other hand, this planning is based on a restructuring of hospital units, it cannot be otherwise, so that patients have at their disposal the resources they need and professionals can work in a more rational and more comfortable way. In the summer season, usually the occupation rates – as I told you already – decrease in all centers. This year we did not reach 77%, and in no center we reached 85%, which is what is considered standard throughout the literature. This is because, of course, we also have a higher reduction in certain pathologies such as respiratory diseases, which are responsible for a very important part of income over the rest of the year. It's also common that at this time there are fewer admissions, especially from internal medicine. On the other hand, I also have to tell you -- I know you don't like it -- the bed resource is not a determinant of the National Health System. However, according to all the indicators, the Ministry of Health, but also the Platform for the Defence of Public Health in its last study, recognizes that Galicia has a bed index per thousand inhabitants higher than many other autonomous communities, and, of course, we are in the middle of the National Health System; that is, we are not much lower than the rest of the autonomous communities. On the other hand, in recent years we have increased outpatient activity in a very important way: day hospital, major outpatient surgery, and, of course, these activities – against what you say – are highly valued by citizenship. All patients and all their caregivers are really much more satisfied to be in a day-to-day hospital, or the major outpatient surgery, than to be in a hospital. And, no doubt, Your Honor, in the coming years we will be attending an unfavourable process of outpatientization, home care, intensive use of technologies. He likes it or doesn't like it, that's the future and it's the present, and we're going to live in the Galego Health Service, and in the whole National Health System, just like in the rest of the countries around us. On the other hand, and as far as staff management is concerned, I have to tell you that all those substitutions that are necessary are carried out to ensure the same quality of care that is being dispensed throughout the rest of the year. The procurement procedure is still known. To ensure the continuous and permanent functioning of our institutions, Sergas provides coverage of the needs of the population through the formalization of temporary appointments, in order to address the absence of staff, and does so in accordance with the rules of the sectoral negotiating bureau and with all trade union forces, negotiation published in the Official Journal of Galicia on 9 May 2011. In this regulation it is very clear that there is an ordinary list of temporal links, so it is called transparently and that it is available to all professionals in the Galician Health Service and to all the people who are enrolled in these time lists. There is – as I say – an ordinary list and then there are the special lists, the one known as pool and the special areas, the latter scheduled for those substitutions of less than 4 days. Also tell him that in June, the percentage of the template that enjoyed the vacations in June was 4.8%, in July 23.6% and in August 29.9%, i.e. almost 30% enjoyed their vacations in August. And in September or 11.1%. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, the reorganisation of hospitalisation resources has no impact on the quality of health care. Once again, I want to remind you that what you call a closed bed doesn't mean an inuseable bed. If necessary, all these beds are available to put them into operation at the time that there is a need for assistance, and so we have done it in many cases. In any case, I also want to thank the work of most professionals in the Galician Health Service, because in difficult times and difficult times, as in less complicated times, they give the best of themselves to ensure patient care, attention to citizens. And, of course, to tell them that we're going to continue working to improve attention to chronic and pluripathological patients in all those aspects that avoid their decompensation, and therefore prevent or prevent hospitalization, which prevent income. And, of course, we're going to continue home hospitalization, the implementation of the Comprehensive Plan of Care for COPD and Diabetes patients, with priority care, whenever possible, for patients in primary care, because I think this is what our citizens are asking for, that's what all the Greeks and Greeks want. And, of course, we will publish the Galician Strategy of attention to chronicity on upcoming dates to collect all these aspects. Don't be doubted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u327	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u328	Mrs. Mosque, you are incombustible to the disappointment. I could have sent the cassette because it's already the third time... you hand the notes to the director general, who repeats absolutely the same thing, as if we were here talking about a trivial matter. Look, the problem is I don't like your answer, the problem is that you don't like the patients in this country. I guess you wouldn't like it if, for example, you went to an emergency service and you were with your 80-year-old mother for hours on a stretcher, with no blankets to cover it... yeah, don't move your head. That's the reality that happens every day. And they could put themselves there rows of people explaining their reality. And look, don't thank professionals so much for their work, listen to them, listen to what's going on in Vigo's hospital, give them money and don't abuse them. That's the best way you can thank them for their work. Of course, to hear you again that in the summer, the rate of occupation decreases... of course, if you close the surgery, if you close the plant, if you don't have professionals, how do you want the occupancy rate to be at least at some level equal to your statistics, Mrs Mosquera? At Salnés Hospital, the plant that you have closed was palliative, and that I know does not diminish your health pressure in the summer, nor do you force obstetrics to have no single bed and have to share it. And the reality is that all of this that you say here is not able to support it with any plan, it is not able to support it with any report that justifies that continuous closing of beds. As long as there are waiting lists, as long as there are leads to private health, as long as there are still difficulties in entering patients who go one by one, again and again the emergency and who are sent home until they are able to enter, and not because of the professionals, but because of the guidelines they receive from you and your management team, the room resource is worth it. You didn't answer the question why in private health if you value the bed resource, Mrs. Mosque. I hope you answer me in your next turn. When will the non-structural waiting list be published, Mrs. Mosquera? Because what's going on every day is that you, with your law of guarantees in your hand, what they do is they call the patients to offer them to be treated in private health. When these patients refuse to be treated in private health, what do you do? They pass us to the limbo of the drawer. They put your job on the waiting list, put it in a drawer and sleep there the dream of the righteous, that's reality!, with which they multiply the waiting lists where you say nothing happens to close beds. Look, they're systematically doing the structural closure of beds beyond the summer months. I hope you tell me here whether the data you get from HULA is true or not, because if you don't deny them, I'm sure you'll close more than 42 beds in the three specialties I told you and you won't open the urology plant. Unless you're lying to me, I'll give it to you. And unless you're lying to me, I'm glad you didn't intend to open the third floor of the Salnés Hospital. If you don't deny it, I hope 18 beds will be kept closed at the Pontevedra Hospital Complex, which will continue to be closed at 50 in the Coruña and will continue to be closed the number given to you by Santiago and Ferrol. Unless you deny me, that data is going to be good for us. And look, every year, you go down three bars closing beds early in the summer, and after the summer, there's only one bath, with which, every year, we lose two benches in beds. In his black sex, more than 600 beds were lost, more than 100 per year. So he goes down two bars, closes 1,000 beds in half, and last summer it turns out that he doesn't open 100 beds in half. Unless you deny it, that's the reality of the data. And he's not innocent, he's always business and private, because, as I told him before, you close beds in the public while you open beds in private health. So, Mrs. Mosque, preaching and giving wheat are quite different things. You act on the maxim that, if there's no activity, there's no expense, and this way you can count and count it so they come here and pretend they don't know what deficits. While the public health of this country is in their hands, under their leadership, with the unquestionable complicity and support of the President of the Government, what they do one day after another is the continued dismantling of public health in our country. I insist, Mrs. Rocío Mosquera, that the data I asked you about these hospital facilities, if you don't deny us now, the professionals and the patients will be glad that you close beds at the beginning of summer, and last summer, it takes advantage of a year yes and another also to lower the capacity of our hospital centers. That diminishes the quality of care, is constantly being abused...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u329	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u330	...to professionals in their indecent work policy, and, above all, what they do is much worse health care for the Greeks and the Greeks.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u331	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Shut up. Mrs. Health Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u332	Thank you, Mr. President. You insist on saying it increases the number of private beds while it decreases in the public, which is absolutely false, I don't know where you get the data. Point one. I like you enough to say that the Urology Service doesn't disappear, because I've also heard that the ULA Urology Service was missing, which is absolutely false. In no case, of course, the ULA Urology Service disappears, but what was done was a reorganisation of beds just to open up other services or other units with which the Lugo Hospital didn't count. What we're doing is, precisely, reorganizing and restructuring the hospitalization of the University Hospital Complex of Lugo in order to be able to give better surgical, pre-surgical and, above all, short-stay care to Lugo patients. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Of course, they're going to open their beds, all the beds they need, in the different hospitals, as it can't be any other way. You keep saying that waiting lists increase, which is also false. It's absolutely false. Could not connect with command "%s": %s. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] We're not uploading the waiting lists, but on the contrary, surgical waiting lists have been reduced year by year over all these years: in priority 1 we spent 28.3 days when we arrived in 2009 to 17.1 days in 2014 and in priority 2 we also decreased in an absolutely significant way, from 68 days to 50.3 days. The number of surgical interventions is increasing year by year and the number of outpatient surgeries is also increasing. The year 2014 was the first time that the Galego Health Service performed more surgical interventions in outpatient surgery than in incoming surgery, and this is a good news, as much as you do, for all patients because they prefer to be operated and have a much better post-operative surgery – both in quality and in number of days of postoperative surgery – when they are intervened by larger outpatient surgery than when they are intervened by classical and open interventions. With which, Your Honor, I don't really know what patients mean when they say patients prefer to be in a hospital for intervention and go home the same day or the next day with a short stay. I think the data is clear enough when we say that the occupation index does not reach 80% in all and each of the hospitals – and of course we're talking about the beds that are operational, we're not talking about the total number of beds because it wouldn't be the right way to do it –. [[Murmurs.]] Look, as far as home hospitalization is concerned, home hospitalization is probably one of the best services rated throughout citizenship. In 2014, we had 5,716 home hospital incomes, 97,499 – almost 97,500 – home hospital stays. You say it's a mistake to increase hospitalization at home, but all the citizens of Greece and all the patients agree with the quality of hospitalization at home, want hospitalization at home and value it very positively. By putting it in perspective: 97,500 rooms are the same as the architect Marcide in the whole year 2014 or the Hospital do Salnès, da Barbera, Verín and Monforte together; we have at home hospital one more hospital in the Galician Health Service and, of course, if you are able to tell me that home hospitalization is not well valued by the population, then we will talk about something else. Look, as I say, all the beds that are necessary will be opened according to the professionals, according to the activity that takes place in the HULA, the architect Marcide and the Coruña. And yes, Your Honor, I'm very proud of Vigo's hospital, I'm very proud because it's going to be the hospital that's going to solve Vigo's problems and, of course, I'm very proud that it's a 100 percent public hospital and I'm an absolute advocate of public health, I've been working for and for public health since 1985. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u333	Thank you, Counselor. Now let's go back to the government's question mark. Question from Da María Carmen Acuña do Campo and two other MPs from G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, about the reasons of the Government of Greece not to recognize as victims of gender-based violence the women to whom the batterer kills their children
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u334	To put the question, you have the floor to Mrs. Acuña.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u335	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies. Mr. Rueda, the Socialist Group has just tabled a non-legislative proposal in committee urging the Government of Greece to take all measures at its disposal to get the women whom the abuser killed family members or friends to be considered victims of gender-based violence and, in addition, both the women and the people killed. We ask for this, Mr Rueda, because it is one of the most serious and urgent issues highlighted in the Committee on Gender Violence which is developing in this House after hearing tremendous testimonies. Moreover, it seems to us that this is a malfunction of the laws we have on violence, since it is clear that the batterer kills the children, the children, the family, the friends or friends of those women to harm them, to avenge them. However, if there is no prior complaint, they are not considered victims of violence because they are not the direct object of it, neither they nor the victims themselves nor, besides, judicially nor administratively nor, of course, statistically, with which even the number of victims of gender-based violence is not properly accounting. But I have to tell you that surprisingly the People's Group has voted against our request with the following arguments: that with popular management many things are already improving, that in addition to the latest legislative reforms made, all existing deficiencies around minors and violence – which is not true – will be fixed, and above all, that according to the minister himself, there is no time left to reform the law. How curious about this weather, Mr. Rueda! For if the time has come for them to reform the Abortion Law, leaving the younger and the most pregnant women, the most vulnerable, in the hands of abusive parents and even rapist parents. Mr. Rueda, tell us the truth, tell us what reasons you have for not wanting to recognize as victims of gender-based violence those women whose batterer, to hurt them, instead of killing them, killed the people they most wanted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u336	Thank you, Mrs. Acuña. Answer the Vice President and President's Adviser, Public Administrations and Justice.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u337	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Indeed, there has been an initiative in this Parliament and there has been a vote of the People's Parliamentary Group that I think it was a responsible vote and I can even understand that I now raise a question which gives me the opportunity to explain again what the group's position is, apart from being a member of the Government, I belong to and subscribe to. It was an absolutely responsible vote and neither the German Government nor the parliamentary group are opposed to considering an extension of the consideration of victims of gender-based violence, they are not opposed at all, and with the shocking events that have occurred in recent times I think more reason to at least consider this possibility. But precisely because you are responsible for achieving the objective that this recognition will then have a practical effect, I think you must also be responsible for making this recognition. You know that neither in the law of the year 2004 nor in the law of the state nor in the law of the year 2007 was this recognition of the new assumptions that you contemplate, I suppose by considering at that time – and that does not mean that the unfortunate evolution of events does not make you reconsider, as I am acknowledging, that this can be extended – that it did not proceed. Do you have to see if it's going on or not? That is why we have a committee in Parliament. I think that just with regard to that commission that you were referring to, you have to see your conclusions and see really... I know the witnesses that are being produced, I'm perfectly informed, I know that there are witnesses that are being produced that move to make that consideration at least in one part, not at all, and that's also what I want to mention: not all of the supposed, in my opinion, have to have the same consideration in making that extension, but at least consider it and when that commission is over and those conclusions will be the time to consider it. Meanwhile, I think important steps have been taken. You know that with the definition of a victim of gender-based violence and the context that marks the law of the year 2007 – which has been done in the bipartite and that I think it has many positive things – you can already consider victims of gender-based violence women to whom batterers murder their children, and so it was in some unfortunate case that took place in Galicia. As for children, you know as well as I do that, with the change that took place in this year 2015, this consideration of minors as victims of gender-based violence is already taking place. Therefore, I believe that with those advances that are being made, with that predisposition to consider that expansion of those people who may be considered victims of gender-based violence, apart from those who are in the law right now, I believe that important steps are being taken that were not taken in 2004 or in 2007, I suppose that because at that time they were not considered important, they were not considered coming, and now yes and for that – I insist – we have that commission and we wait for its conclusions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u338	Thank you, Vice President. Replica, Mrs. Acuña.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u339	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Rueda, are you responsible for leaving the women without cover? Are you responsible for leaving them until the Commission has finished? I believe that there is little responsibility and no commitment; no commitment to the violence of gender or the commitment of the PP to dead women or the commitment of the PP to living women. What happens, Mr. Rueda, do you think that the women who reported these terrible situations, those malfunctions of the laws in the Commission did because they did, because with the improvements of the PP, everything is done? Look, we're not asking the People's Party to change the laws, and less when it comes to laws that have to do with people's rights and equality, and we're not asking the People's Party to change those laws because we're very clear that changing them would be to bring about a reversal; we're just asking you to take measures that diminish a dysfunction detected on such a serious topic. We ask him to solve urgent and serious dysfunctions that we do not expect and do not understand, Mr Rueda, that we ask him to wait until the Commission is finished, as we do not understand that the minister, who also rejected this request at Congress, refused to say that they do not have time. They were worth the minutes off -- I insist -- to leave the most vulnerable women in the hands of batterers, however, a year ahead does not seem long enough to protect those mothers whom the batterers didn't kill, but if they took the same life, they won't be able to help and protect those children who die in the hands of abusive parents to hurt women.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u340	Thank you, Mrs. Acuña. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u341	Mr. Rueda, don't take time because the victims don't have it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u342	Thank you, Mrs. Acuña. Replica, Mr. Vice-President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u343	Mrs. Now, look at the steps you have taken – of good faith, safe – when they were ruling neither with the measures we have taken – of course, of good faith – I hope, as you asked, that unfortunately the problem will be solved definitely. If you think this is solved by legal measures, the question you might ask is, if it is so urgent, why in the state law of 2004 and until 2011 did you not understand all these people that you now ask to get into the law?, and why did they do exactly the same in 2007? If this was a question of broadening legal concepts, and if you really thought that was the solution, the question you could ask – I know you ask me, but we're in a parliamentary appearance and I can also say this – is why didn't you take those measures if that was the solution? Because you know that that's not the solution, the solution is to go through steps, serious steps, steps that are going through something and not doing politics on this subject – I've told you many times – neither do you or others, because that's why we don't solve anything at all; we have to go through serious steps and steps. And, frankly, I don't think they have the same consideration or that they should have it or that it should be a reform at least simultaneously to consider victims of gender-based violence – that they are already and you know it as I said before – and the women to whom the batter kills their children, family and friends. I don't think you can put everything in the same bag, I don't think you can get everything into the same reform, and I don't think you can take all the steps simultaneously because, then, we'd probably be doing things, I'm not going to tell you wrong, but of course, not in the best way I think these things must be done. That is why I would rather continue to take steps, I would rather continue to think that if we set up a committee in Parliament it is to listen to it and to know what its conclusions are and not forward to the conclusions that may have that commission, which is plural, which is listening to everyone and which is trying to succeed. It's not in the legal reforms the solution, if not, I understand and insist that you would have done it because you had time left. I think this is going to take steps: today we have just published in the Official Journal of Galicia the resolution for the improvement of CIM equipment, which do a fundamental work in municipalities of all colors and have to do so much more and have to be much more known, and on Monday I will sign with the Ministry of the Interior, with the Minister, the agreement that Galicia can access the data of VioGen, the comprehensive tracking system of victims of gender violence. I believe that these are the steps that must be taken so that later, when we extend the concept to those people we see coming in at every moment, we do not do so either by a parliamentary statement or by forwarding to the conclusions of a committee, which is the one that really understands about this matter, and you are part of that committee just as we are. Let's hope for all this, let's not do politics or demagogy, and we'll probably accept for a problem that, unfortunately, will not solve any government, will solve it for society, but with serious steps and not doing politics or demagogy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u344	Thank you, Vice President. Let's go back to the question mark. Interpellation of G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da María do Carmen Acuña do Campo, and two other Members, on the sustainability of the public health system of Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u345	To formulate the inquiry, you have the floor to Mrs. Acuña.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u346	Thank you, President. Again, good afternoon, gentlemen. Mrs. Mosquera, before asking about the sustainability, I'd like to ask you your opinion on the case of that child, to whom, always according to the media, if you deny him the right to a worthy death. What are you going to do, Counsellor, so that at a public health center it will meet with the vigorant legislation? Do you remember, Counsellor, the Law on the Rights and Guarantees of the Dignity of Terminally Sick Persons, which was passed in this same House in June – by the way – in your presence? Well, Counselor, now we have to deal with her. Remember that "if we're not able to make the reforms that the system needs we load?" Santander, March 2011, Mrs. Mosquera, manager of Sergas. And this other: "Or do we take measures or the health system will be unsustainable"? Santander, July 2015, Mrs. Mosquera, counsellor of health in Galicia. By the way, in this last statement you pointed out, in addition, the culprits of this insatiability of the system and, of course, as always, when it comes to the People's Party, the culprits are others. In this case it was the Greek citizenship first, by ignorance, or, if you prefer it, inadequately literate and with an inadequate self-management of health – that must be what happens to prisoners and prisoners in our country, who do not want to be treated – and the second culprit was the professionals, the excess of hospitalization and the high health expenses. By the way, you quickly solved this: Overhospital? Beds are closed all year long and they can't be hospitalized anymore. Overexpenditure? There's no problem, there's no payroll, and there's a reduction in spending because they pay for others, and if they don't get paid for the treatment of prisoners, we also save a fur. But, of course, not a single word in that analysis of his disastrous management. Mrs. Mosquera, don't you think, after listening to her, the first question we have to ask is what you did in the years between those two statements? Well, if, as you assure yourself, the problem of sustainability persists, or you haven't made enough changes or what you've done, you've done them wrong. But let's look at the changes made: first it was cut to thinner the public health system as much as possible – it's what you've been working your whole life – and then, once you've been thinned, the whole retreat has been replaced by the private. The result is that we have it there: deterioration and, in your opinion, insatiability; i.e., worse quality and still higher price. I could give you thousands of examples of the failure of the privatizations made by you, but you'll allow me to use the latest: Vigo. See if the privatization of Vigo's new hospital – if you feel so proud – was a failure that took the street to more than 200,000 people; that is, according to President Feijóo, to 200,000 irresponsible politicians. A startling failure in Vigo that even caused the paralysis of the transfer to that wonderful and, above all, expensive new private hospital, small and even dangerous Vigo. Tell me, Mrs. Mosquera, about all the hospital transfers made in the history of public health in Galicia, how many had to paralyze? And by step, tell us what happened, Mrs. Mosquera, with Aspergillus, because everyone knows that if there are works, if there is dust, there is Aspergillus. Tell us why you're trying to deny it, why you've hidden the facts -- you know what I'm talking to you about -- why you've kidnapped the samples of that sick, surely contaminated, and why you've numbed and now you've got the professionals threatened. Or would you prefer to reserve all this information for the Supreme Court of Justice in Galicia? Why is the People's Party so committed to stalking everyone? What are you hiding? What's President Feijóo hiding from us? Look, as much as you put out of the Chamber the opposition and as much as the president calls us irresponsible, the truth is there and the professionals know it – who, by the way, now denounce it in the courts – and know it by citizenship. Everyone is very clear, Mrs. Mosquera, that the irresponsible is not to ask, in the face of suspicion of such serious pollution, not only to paralyze the transfer but also to evacuate the critical and the transferred patients – yes, those who have compromised their immune system, either because they are immune depressed or because they are treatment with immunosuppressants –; the irresponsible, counsellor, is not to do so. Irresponsible, intolerable and irresible is to disregard the opinion of serious and responsible professionals and try to stem them with ad hoc reports made by bosses fingering for you. Because at this point, Counselor, we have very clear how to choose, how to distribute and how to cover the heads of service: husbands, relatives and friends of the People's Party. I should explain to you so quickly now with Vigo's hospital after being so sympathetic to the multiple delays that the construction suffered. Maybe that private company gives the Vigo hospital a start to charge the millionaire canon that will undoubtedly make our health unsustainable? You should explain to us how you neither resign nor cease after that worrying statement about the insatiability of a system that you yourself manage, Counselor. How could it be that even the president of the board itself – by the way, the ideologist of this model and this failure – was once again seen in the need to contradict and disallow it, ensuring that our system is sustainable? Although in honor of the truth, what President Feijóo textually said was that the health system would be sustainable while he was president. Perhaps what the president wanted to say is that the year that PP has left in the Government the system will stand, but that as soon as we have to start paying for all the privatizations that he himself has authorized, the health system will become unsustainable; or else I said: prepare what comes next. Mrs. Mosquera, it's your statements and your management that are causing great concern, both between the health profession and between the citizenry itself, and not the allegations of the opposition. Concern about viability and concern about the quality of fundamental right, of the most basic right, of the right to health care of Galician citizenship. That's why we want to ask you today: Is it sustainable, Counsellor, the public health system, as the president assures, or irresponsible, as you say, who directly manages it? And if it's sustainable today, will it continue to be when we have to pay the millionaire cannons for everything you have privatized? Is that the cause of that insatiability that you announced from Santander? Tell us if he's going to take more measures to ensure the system's sustainability and, if so, which ones. Maybe more cuts, maybe more strawberries? Do you consider Greek citizenship illiterate in health matters? Is this sharing Feijóo to blame the economic difficulties of our system for the behaviour of citizens? And, of course, don't forget to explain to us, Counselor – even more dismissed or stopped than ever before – the matter of Aspergillus. Look, having to pay millionaires and not have guarantees in health care because of all that you have privatized is absolutely intolerable and, of course, unsustainable. I'm waiting for your answers. There's nothing more for now and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u347	Thank you, Mrs. Acuña. The Health Counsellor has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u348	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, again. Look, with regard to the child of Santiago, I think we have to let the professionals decide on this case and I have to tell you that, for the information I have about the Pediatric Service, they say – and I believe so – that there is no therapeutic bleeding at this time, which is what collects the law that there should not be, but can't be asked to professionals for active euthanasia. Now they're talking about the subject and, of course, I think they're fulfilling their obligation, which is precisely that this child has no activity or therapeutic bleeding, which is the collected – as I say – in the law that has been approved precisely in this House; I think that's what we're doing and they're fulfilling professionals, as it can't be otherwise. With regard to the question you were asking me in writing, we must remember that in these six years we had a starting situation of a reality that no one likes, nor you, who have repeatedly denied it for quite a while, nor us. This situation was an economic crisis, the biggest economic crisis this country has experienced, and at some point it even led us to think that there would be a ransom. In this scenario, of course, there has been a dramatic drop in public funds to finance public services. We then faced a challenge, which was to manage to maintain our health system, improving its efficiency and substantially lowering costs, but not quality. This was always our goal: to lower costs by maintaining quality in everything that was essential, which was necessary and to bring value to the patient. You all these years have been dedicated to saying that we had cuts, the scissors, the privatizations, a continuous litany, a continuous hillside that we had to listen to and we saw listening. Ladies and gentlemen, the situation was obviously not so simple. It wasn't about cutting down, it wasn't about cutting down, it wasn't about obviously, it wasn't about cutting down the expense of lowering income; it was about putting in place efficiency measures, management measures that could reduce costs, but, as I say, it didn't change the essence of the system for anything. We wanted the system to remain universal, free, equitable, of quality and respecting the work of the professionals who composed it. I think we have achieved this, I think these principles are basic and we all defend them. More than once in this House I asked them to help us, more than once in this House I asked them for a pact for public health and you refused. I have to tell you that there is no mess or confusion between my words and those of the president, of course there are no. I have not doubted the sustainability of the public system that we manage, what I have said is that it was necessary to take measures in the medium and long term to make precisely that this system – that we all want it to remain public, universal, free and equitable – was solvent and sustainable; and I continue to repeat it, saying it for a long time. And that's exactly what the president says, that the Council of Galicia bet is for public health and that's why we've devoted more than 40% of the Junta budget to public health; that's what we've done all these years. I think we're doing it and we're doing it because of the professional effort. I repeat it all the time, I know you don't like it, but we've made it through the efforts of professionals, from day to day of professionals. And you told me that we did, we did a lot of things over these years: for example, we made a law to make better use of pharmaceutical prescription, we increased the use of generics – we increased the use of generics from 10% in 2010 to 43% in 2015 and, of course, also thanks to professionals, who understand it from the very first moment – we established and disseminated criteria for rational use of the medicine among all professionals, that they were able to put in place, when you were against the law of the drug catalogue, when you voted against, that they were able to continue to apply. So we deploy 100% of the electronic recipe, 100% of the dispensation and 97% of the prescription. We have made management agreements with professionals – both doctors and pharmacists – and it is also necessary to highlight the work of pharmacy pharmacists in this long period of economic crisis, thanks to them, too, we have been able to lower the cost of pharmacy, both in hospital pharmacy and in prescription pharmacy. Another program we launched was that of chronic and polymedicated patients. We started in 2010 studying and working with those patients who took more than fifteen different medicines a day, with this program we managed to reduce it by 47%; this is a sign of quality because you will know that drug interactions, when more medications are taken... and of course taking more than fifteen medications a day is a term that puts us at risk; in 2014 we started working with those who took more than eleven medications, and at this point we are already working with those who take more than ten. And that's a fact, but it's also a fact that we're still the autonomous community with the per capita expenditure in the highest revenues in the whole state after Extremeure – 364,57 euros per capita in 2014 – and we're also the autonomous community with the highest revenue expenditure, with which we still have possible improvements in this area, we're still who and we still have to work with professionals to reduce revenue spending. And we didn't go down a peak at quality, lowering the expenditure on recipes we didn't go down a peak at quality; and we were able to start the treatment of hepatitis C, of the first autonomous communities with the new drugs – first with those of the year 2012 and then with those of the year 2014 and 2015–; and at this point, we are treating all patients with clinical criteria following the hepatitis C plan of the ministry and the National Health System. And we have, of course, done this to ensure the sustainability of the health system. Another important line of action in the council was centralized purchase, integrated purchase of products and medicines: EUR 433 million – EUR 433 million! – were the subject of integrated bids with an estimated cost of EUR 43 million; this is a reduction in costs without impact on anything, of course, quality. Another line of work is the risk shared with those drugs, and with those laboratories and those big drugs. The clearest is the technological partner, the technological partner that allows us to have advanced technology for the whole National Health System – and, in addition, to pay only for the availability of equipment –; the logistics platform is also another of the major objectives of the consultancy precisely to control costs. Currently 1,497 units are already being served by the logistics platform, 45,000 products from which prices are controlled throughout the Galego Health Service, and 3,500 articles of special consideration that carry traceability to the patient's bed. Obviously, also the Energy Efficiency Plan was a plan to reduce costs without lowering or apex quality. As you see, Your Honor, I'm not talking about cuts; as you see, Your Honor, I'm not talking about lowering quality, I'm talking about improving management, I'm talking about something you don't like: doing more with less. Ladies and gentlemen, we're going to go this way because I think that's what all the Greeks and the Greeks demand, that we be able to manage all the euros that put us in our hands to have a quality, equitable, safe public health that allows us to do more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u349	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mrs. Acuña.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u350	Thank you, Mr. President. Counsellor, on the matter of the girl: who does the law, Counsellor?, the ethics committee professionals or the Pediatric Service professionals? See, in addition, the law is going to have to read it again – if you read it in your day – because it talks about a lot more than active euthanasia, more precisely it doesn't talk about it. Look, you say here that you dropped the expenses, yes: a new private hospital in Vigo, under 400 million that cost the first project to 1.4 billion; that rose the quality, yes: in the hospital in Vigo, so much so that today we are dispatching in the press that there can't be surgery because there is no sterilized surgical material – without telling you about Aspergillus–. Look, how will our system be supported after all you've been privatized? Look, Vigo's new private hospital, but it's just, besides, next to Povervisa, Galaria, etc. The CHOU Master Plan, also privatized. The expansion of the Salnés? By the way, that Cofely company, is it, counsellor?, privatized laboratories, maintenance of health equipment, electromedicine, electronic medical history, Sergas telecommunications for three years for 28 million... all but the new private hospital in Vigo, which, as it is private, had to negotiate it for free his own server as sure as you know very well because it was very fast and in the minutes off too. He privatized the archives, the clinical documentation, the shopping center, all the high technology, the radiology protection service, sterilization – twelve years, twelve years, yes, 160 million – that sterilization that now does not allow him to operate the surgeons, all the management and energy supply – including water –. That new invention of trucks, consultants and mobile surgeries... By the way, do you remember – speaking of remembering – that, when we talked about the suppression of mammograms from the mobile mammogram unit, you explained to us that you withdrew them because of technical deficiencies and, in addition, because of the difficulties women had, or people with mobility problems, to access the truck? Funny. Now, for those caravaning consultants and those campaign surgeons, there's gonna be no trouble getting in, right? And it effectively privatized attention to chronic patients, yes; telecare at home, training, research, health innovation; the janitors, yes – that are now closed in that hospital than you are so proud –; the previous quote, of course, cleaning, catering, safety, haemodialysis, oxygen therapy, health transport, etc. And what's the matter, Counselor? Well, I'll tell you. That, if you have to add the payment of all those cannons, all those that have to start paying for private companies, if you have to add the staff costs more the pharmacy expenses, they don't give the accounts, they don't give the accounts. Perhaps the only truth he has said is that of insatiability, of course, but by his management. But, look, what I can't tolerate is that of the health model; not only did you make it sustainable, but you also changed the health model, which we had to do one of the best health care in the world besides the cheapest. You have now changed the model of health, it is not universal, Counsellor; why, because that decree changed what was a right linked to the status of a citizen and transformed him into a service linked to the condition of an insured, with which our health, our health system, has ceased to be univer. About what's not public there all that listing...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u351	It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u352	...I think it makes quite clear. As for the one who is free, the decree also introduced all kinds of coke and the quality with its management was annulled. Look, Counselor – finished – who is not sustainable is you and the health model of the People's Party. Fortunately, neither you nor the PP have a long time left, in fact health care in nine autonomous communities – in most of the Interterritorial Council – is already governed by socialists, who are fighting to recover...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u353	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u354	...the universality and commitment to the sustainability. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u355	Thank you. Thank you, Mrs. Acuña. Shut up, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u356	Thank you, Mr. President. Look, I don't think there's any discrepancy between the report of the Ethics Committee and the Pediatric Service, I can assure you. And, of course, the law will be observed and you will give the best assistance, without any doubt – and I have no doubt – to this one like any other patient. On the other hand, look, public health obviously faces the challenge of improving its services and ensuring sustainability. And for that – and I still say – it is necessary and we have to keep changing, among other things because the patient changes: we have more and more chronic patients – especially in Galicia – and more elderly patients; and for that, of course, we have to turn the system towards health promotion and disease prevention, the approach of chronicity, self-management and self-care of disease – even if they do not like it – and the promotion of active and healthy aging. There's no other way, because that's what patients demand, that's what patients need. And, therefore, in this environment it is necessary to take advantage to change the system; I know that you all changes... because it seems that we have to make – we too – energy determinations, that is, we are going to have to manage electricity and natural gas – I don't know what you mean. I don't know what it refers to when it speaks of the privatization of sterilization because, of course, in Vigo sterilization continues to be in the Mexeiro, it remains absolutely public, it is still managed by professionals of the Galego Health Service and at no time it has privatized itself or outsourced sterilization; in no hospital is sterilization externalized. As they're lying along with the hospital theme, they've come to say that we charge for the armchairs, or the patients' chair, they've come to say that we charge for the water, they've come to say so many barbarities inside the hospital that they're going to prove they're fake. Today morning I already recognized that it was false what was collected for the saddle. Regarding literacy: look, Your Honor, I don't think you understand when I talk about the literacy of patients that we're talking about; maybe you like the English term better because maybe it's thinner than the English term, but I like the Spanish term better and I talk about literacy of health. I don't know if you know these books, I don't know if you know them, but, look, the person who runs these courses and these books is named Professor Rafael Bengoa – as you know, he's an adviser to the Socialist Party, he's also an adviser to Obama and the World Health Organization. [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] In these books we are speaking precisely of the literacy of patients, and in these books, precisely, Galicia is set as an example of good practices at the School of Health for Citizens in which we have been working since 2010, and it is set as a reference to Galicia in the Advisory Council of Patients. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] You can ask Dr. Bengoa and if I can't lend them, too, without any doubt. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] All right? Of course, the Health School for Citizens is a way of working with patients, it's a way of working precisely for what is also called patient empowerment. In these years, more than 11,000 patients, patients who are precisely trained and informed about their pathology, how to better self-care and how to make better use of health resources, have passed through this School of Health for Citizens. In addition, 70 expert patients have been trained, which is what the entire world literature recommends right now. I don't know if it's privatising, too, but this is what all the literature around the world recommends is what to do with chronic patients, polymedicated patients and pluripathological patients. The Patient Advisory Council was the first autonomous community to create it, now that there are many more. People alive, a theme site of recognized prestige and so they gave us several awards; the Conecta 72 program and, now yes, we have in Innova-Health several more projects: E-Health, Digital Home and Hospital in the House – all to work better with patients, to work better with professionals –. I know you don't like it. Look, as far as we're maintaining the system: Galicia allocates 1,241 euros per inhabitant per year; we don't say so, it's on the Ministry's page and it's also recognized in the study of the Platform for the Defence of Public Health. We're from the autonomous communities that we have spending per inhabitant... do you know who's the last to spend per inhabitant, you know who's the last to spend per inhabitant? Andalucía. Andalucía, who spends EUR 998.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u357	Thank you very much, Counselor. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u358	I don't say anything but this, Your Honor. And, of course, don't keep lying and don't keep risking...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u359	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u360	...the Vigo hospital. We have a big hospital in Vigo, which is safe for patients. Don't keep lying. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u361	Thank you very much, Counselor. Q. Ricardo Vicente Docasar Docasar and two other MPs from G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the situation of the education system in Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u362	Mr Docasar has the floor to make an inquiry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u363	Good afternoon, everyone. Welcome back, Counselor. I only stay if we talk about education in Galicia and not education in Andalusia; if it's Andalusia, I'm leaving. There'll be something of Andalusia, of course, I'd miss more! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Mr. Rodríguez, you come here today, caught by an ear by the Socialist Group, and it must be clear, from the beginning, that that implies that I am the one who asks and you the one who answers. Yes, yes, it is. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] They're the rules of the game, of course they are. If you wanted another format – and it was possible another format – you had the opportunity to come voluntarily to explain the start of the course, but you didn't want to do it; you'll know why. I honestly think you had to show up voluntarily today to talk about the beginning of the 2015-2016 course. But nothing happens, I insist: we brought him, caught by an ear, and here we are face to face you and me – and, I insist, don't forget that I am today who asks and you must be the one who answers; let's not do things backwards." My intention today, Counselor, is to be able to debate quietly, calmly with you about the state of health and the head of the education system in Galicia, now that we have in our classrooms all over the student from childhood to university. We think, therefore, of the Socialist Group, that it is the right time to do this, and to do so by placing criticisms and proposals on the table, as is the case with a party which today is the main party to the opposition in this Parliament, but which legitimately aspires to be a government here and in Madrid, Mr Rodríguez. And that is why, precisely, we cannot just criticize what you do wrong – which is enough – we also have to give proposals and also proposals in a positive way. We want to put viable, sensible proposals on the table today that can be met. You know, Mr. Rodríguez, that this humble spokesman of the Socialist Group has more morals than the Alcoyan when he believes in something, although I am already in a position to affirm, after the time passed – almost three years we are here – that this matters very little to you. Mr. Rodríguez, the second course of the LOMCE era, is in progress with more shortcomings and problems than we have already reported the previous course on these same dates. There's trouble, there's improvisation, there's madman from the educational community, there's lack of human resources in many of the centers of Greece, and there's contempt and none of it to the professor himself. And there are, to prove what I'm saying, the numerous complaints by ANPA, teachers, management teams and teaching unions. You know, Mr. Rodríguez, that I like to talk about specific cases and to put it to its problems, and not to speak abstractly: complaints and problems in schools and institutes of Santiago, Orders, Rianxo, Taragoña, the Guard, the Island of Arousa, Ames, Pontevedra, I will Forcarei, Ourense, Nigrán, etc. You and your team in the council have been acting in this start-up as a raided disk, and they have spoken – as they always do – of a normal course start, omitting the numerous complaints from many educational communities scattered throughout the country, and forgetting – intentionally too – the great upheaval that they have mounted with the management of textbooks, the staff shortages in many centres – fundamentally personal support – or the reckless implementation of secondary and bachelor's decrees – which has much difficulty, Mr. Counsellor, very much, the development of educational programming, schedules and registration in the centers. Questions like these that wouldn't have happened if things had been done with more pause and rigour. Counsellor, we are at the door of debate in this Parliament about the 2016 budgets, and that is why we think of the Socialist Group as a good time to start correcting the difficulties that have been driving our education system through the austeric policy carried out in recent times. It will be precisely the time to check, Mr Counsellor, if, in addition to telling us stories, they begin to see things in their accounts; for if we are really – as the President of the Government recently said on a visit to Berlin – to South Germany, because it would be good for the education community of Greece to begin to perceive this imaginative feeling of being something like Bavaria. I finished the previous course by telling you, and in this Parliament, that in the time I was in charge there had been no substantial change in the country's educational, cultural or linguistic policy. I also told him, at that moment, that I didn't know if you would have room for manoeuvre to make different decisions, and I also told him that the education community in Galicia demanded them, and that their credibility as advisor would largely depend on whether or not they could be cared for. Counselor, we are going to make good the recovery of what Rajoy, Feijóo, Santamaría or Montoro speak; we are going to give good the sentence of Rajoy in Berlin that we are really South Germany. You know better than anyone else that the cuts produced in the Welsh education system, since 2009, have produced important consequences that you have always tried to hide with that mantra that you have just remembered the Health Counsellor: do more with less; but the truth is, Mr. Counsellor, is that we have fewer resources for scholarships and compensatory education, that we have fewer teachers and with worse working and professional conditions, that you have organized a real chaos with the management of the textbooks, that they have put in place – hurry and running – the basic FP without putting a single euro throughout the previous course – nor do we know, at the beginning of this new course–. And to say also, Counsellor, of the consequences it will have for the student currently enrolled in the basic FP, precisely that decision for the purposes of titration. But we'll talk about that another day in depth, because I think it's important, I don't think today. I want to tell you again today, Counselor, that the humble achievements of recent years have been possible thanks to a teacher who, in a very difficult situation, was able to make humble progress. And here's another reason for today's questioning, Mr. Counsellor: Galicia does not go out very well in the well-known educational reports, although you always breast-feed for getting out better in those reports than Canary Islands, whether Extreme or Andalusia, intentionally forgetting that practically all the autonomous communities of northern Spain are better off than we – I'm thinking, for example, in the Basque Country, Navarre, Aragon, Castela-Leon, the Rioja or Asturias – and all that, Counsellor, with the help of the same wicked Zapaterist educational law. You've been ruling Galician education for a long time, and you can't keep blaming others: you have to be more responsible and assume that you've ruled in Galicia in the last 25 years. Tell me, Counselor, if you can, you want and know why the Basque Country, Navarre, Asturias, Aragon, Castile-Leon or Rioxa have better results than us, under the same law. Counsellor, in education, magic and miracle recipes, in education, things are achieved with patience, means, stability and respect and deeply value the teacher. Galicia is not about to suck so much – say what you say and say what President Feijóo says. I think it's enough to live from Zapatero's mantras, Andalusia's, bipartite and evil socialist laws. Mr. Counsellor, let's go with another of the subjects of our interpellation: I had also finished the past course and started the current course by telling you that you had taken very seriously the risk of the equity of the education system; I also finished the previous course and started the current course by asking you not to allow a single child or child to go the class without a textbook and school material; and that, unfortunately, today is not guaranteed. What you've managed with the mismanagement of textbooks is to piss off the teacher, the ANPA, the management teams and even the bookstores. Stop dizzy, recover a system that worked and stop improvising. Counsellor, if we really are – as Rajoy says – South Germany, I ask you today, for the last time, to stop educational austerity, to focus your efforts on fighting for the stability, equity and excellence of the education system, to focus your efforts on regaining the respect and self-esteem of the teacher, since there is no progress without the teacher's involvement. Counsellor, our interpellation is about four very specific issues: equity-educational system, the result of the system, recovery of teachers' conditions and recovery of the conditions of the educational centres themselves – operating costs, educational equipment, works of [...] and correction of the digital divide. You know, Counselor, that I've always tried to follow the advice you gave me shortly to get to this Parliament: he told me that he was persistent and I gave him notice, but I'm more and more convinced every day that he took my hair; here he doesn't press the reason or the arguments that we put on the table, here he is the only one who wins how many votes we have to vote in order to crush everyone or anyone who happens to argue and not be the People's Party. What I'm telling you is that every day there are more people who don't understand this way of doing politics, who are trying to push away the citizenship of the things we do. It's time to regain the prestige of politics, so if we don't do it and we do it now, we'll be late. I hope, Counsellor, that this interpellation today, which the Socialist Group has made to you today, will serve at least to reflect on it and to lead it to make decisions other than those it has taken in recent times. I believe, honestly, that it is perfectly possible if we are really South Germany. In any case, if I didn't get it today, I don't have any doubt that I'll keep insisting on it until I'm tired, because, as President Rajoy says, a glass is a glass and a dish is a dish. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u364	The councillor for Culture, Education and Universitary Order, Mr. Román Rodríguez, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u365	Good afternoon, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Docasar, I come here from an ear, pulled from an ear. Well, I don't want you to do it, Mr. Docasar, it's playing, I don't like to listen because I don't usually give good results, and I would tell you that, like every year, you rush and, just as the course starts quite normally almost every year – except for some punctual question that's going to be corrected, if you're going to adapt – it's also normal that the Socialist Party – or the opposition in general – a full before or two full before the final course appearance – that, by the way, Mr. Docasar, you should know that you're already requested and we want to do it in October when we've closed the computer processes to have all the exact data and not touch the ear as you are doing, touch your ear – because we're doing is waiting for that data to come here and introduce them and not to come to play it a few days before what corresponds to you. And usually, by the end of the year, the whole past – the appearance, in that case, of the counselor – because it was the same. And I also want to tell you that this government, the government Feijóo, all the advisors – my predecessor and I will too – have come to attend the beginning of the course, always. And other advisors can't say the same thing when, during four beginnings of course, they once appeared alone, with which I think that, who come to us here to teach us that the People's Party government doesn't appear, frankly I ask you to have a little memory and some honesty, because, if not, it also keeps ringing and I think you don't know if you're a high-flight musician, but you really shouldn't touch your ear, because, if not, the audience won't listen to you because you're defining. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And, said this, I think you told us that you came here to make positive proposals, that you have legitimate aspirations to govern, legitimate ones, and that you come to make positive proposals; I haven't heard any, I don't know if any of these benches have heard any positive proposals; the most positive proposal we've been hearing for a long time is that you're going to derogate LOMCE, that's the most positive proposal. Well, Mr. Docasar, who has already begun to recognize that in recent years there has been humble advances in education, I think the evidence has to lead you to understand and to say and to recognize that there has been, in your opinion, humble advances. But well, beyond the humble advances it is also true, Mr Docasar, that this party has ruled in Galicia for many years – we also have legitimate aspirations to continue to do so, as you will have to be – and I will tell you that education in Galicia has made a great deal of progress during different governments, but in Spain you have – when I say you say, the Socialist Party – around a third of the democratic period – more or less, year up, year down, around a third – you have ruled in Spain. I'm going to say he's made remarkable progress, but he's still having a lot, a lot of deficits as well. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Now we can also take autonomous communities – not to mention any names because I think you already understand – in which the Socialist Party ruled in a hundred percent regime, there was no alternative government. And, in fact, the variables and educational indices in those autonomous communities aren't very bright for you, Mr. Docasar, they're not very bright for you. And I recognize his perseverance; of course, I did not try to deceive, I am not so illustrious to think that I tried to deceive you, that you are a skilful Member, but your perseverance – if I may express myself – there is a moment when pink with being stubborn, and understand my word, understands my word. There's a phrase that says to us: "We like – and I read it textually – to call stubbornness to foreign perseverance but we reserve the name of perseverance to our stubbornness." And perhaps here, in the end, it's not a question of who is most stubborn or who is most persistent, it's a question of seeing reality and it's a question of seeing the data; and, if we see Galicia's evolution at the educational level in recent years, since 2009, I think that that expression – which I've coined and that you recognize because it even puts it in the exhibition of reasons for this initiative, of silent revolution –, I think that if you can apply this qualification to the educational dynamics of the country; and why? because there was this silent revolution. Well, there were educational projects that I think are innovative – bullying, multilingualism, contracts-program –, now we're working together. Values have been promoted: culture of effort, autonomy of centers, new methods of learning...; a lot of equity has been promoted, investments have been made – less than we wanted, because there are fewer resources, but investments have been made. And well, I'm sure I won't convince you, I'm not going to convince you or the sides of the opposition, I'm not going to convince you, I lose my legitimate hope of trying to convince you; but I will also try to persevere and provide information to try to put objective information on the table; for example, we have improved in educational quality; a question – I don't want you to answer me, Mr Docasar, I will answer it myself – objectively, according to the parameters of international organizations, yes, from the year 2008 to the year 2014 Pisa report shows that Galicia has greatly increased in the three main varieties – knowledge of languages, mathematics and science – objective data: we are above the European average. Unfortunately in 2009 we weren't on that ratio, unfortunately for the country we weren't on that ratio. One objective, which you'll give me the reason: school failure; it's the most important variable of the education system, the most equitable, because there's nothing more anti-equity than that young people and girls go out on the street without any kind of titration, because it directs them directly to difficult vital itineraries. Socialist Government, maximum public investment, almost 26%, currently 18%. I think it's objective data and we could still talk about data, which – I insist, I will also be persistent – would legitimately aspire to try to convince him, although I also recognize that it will be difficult. But we could keep talking and talking. LOMCE: you talk about chaos, you talk about disaster; the truth is, I visit many centers – less than I would like, but I visit many educational centers – and, look, here the primary decree has been applied with total normality, and we apply the decree this year, we launched the ESO and Bacharelate decree with total normality – by the way, long before what you did with ESO and LOE's decree; with which, without having the decree published after having passed the advisory bodies, to be on the network etc.; you say there was chaos and precipitation, I don't know how you would qualify what your governments did for the application of LOE – that would no longer be chaos, it would be an end, because it's really a lot behind it, right? And you compare us, Mr. Docasar, to us a comparison by autonomous communities; well, I'm going to tell you a question: in all the indexes there are communities that tend to be up – Vasco Country, Navarre – and some that tend to be down –Andalucia, I didn't want to quote it, but you quote it. Galicia, in recent years, and according to a ranking, we are going to call it objective – or a ranking made by professionals for ethics, an independent civil association –, Galicia in recent years, since 2007, is progressively approaching the Basque Country, and Andalusia is moving away in all parameters, in quality and equity. And I think that there is something that should think about it because there is a question – and here I deny the biggest –: you talk about the system's equity; look, the system, an equitable system, is not what you understand with a sort of unique thinking, coffee for everyone is not equity, because there is one question – and here I deny the biggest – and here I deny the greatest –: you talk about the system of equity; look, the system, an equitable system, is not what you understand with a sort of unique kind of single thinking, the coffee for everyone is not equity, what does there is a question for everyone, there is that there is a question of coffee for everyone, coffee for everyone for everyone is not equality, what we are talking about the educational system that we are defending in terms of education – and we think about the educational system that we are defending since individualized attention, programme contracts – from the economic point of view, from an economic point of view, we think about the needs of the student-based economic aid aid system, from the income support system based on eating? or we do? or we do it we do it in income; we do not do it in terms that what we intend? or do it in the book-book system, we do not allow it is basically allow in the book-book system of text system; we allow now or in the time; we can now or in the book system of text; we can now or in the book system of text; we can allow the time; we can now or in the time; we can now or in the European book system of text system, but we can now or in the European book system of text system of text. we use, but we can now, but we use it to make; we use it is the time; we use it, and we use it is the time; we use it to make; we can now or in the European; we have is the system of the system of bookbooks system of text system of book system of text.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u366	It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u367	...the basic economic differences, and an administration would be what you should propose is a system of redistribution of income and trying to favor those families with less resources, and that's what you're considering, and we're also doing it, for example, in the insertion of new technologies or in the insertion of multilingualism. And I'm going to tell you one thing: until a few years ago, to study or manage computer science, or to study English beyond English classes, you had to go to private academies and pay them, and with learning systems in...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u368	Finish up, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u369	...English or new technologies there were very few schools, schools we're going to say almost elite; for look, fortunately, and thanks to the management of the last few years of the Feijóo Government, we were able to make available to many what was once the privilege of a few...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u370	Thank you very much, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u371	...and I think that's the real fairness and that's what you're doing...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u372	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u373	...this government: equity, and achieving results and improving the quality of the education system. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u374	Thank you very much. Replica round, Mr. Docasar.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u375	Not to be heard, Counselor, this humble Member will never listen, never, ever seek to inform himself and be rigorous; I will be able to err but, to listen, never. I'm an education professional, and when I talk about a subject, I know what I'm talking about, and I always try to tell myself well, so don't miss about it. [[Murmurs.]] I'm saying that we have a quiet and quiet debate, please. I respect the counselor much, eh?, don't be angry; I respect the counselor and he knows it, he knows it because I tell him many times, huh? I'm stubborn yes, of course I'm stubborn, I have no other remedy left, Counselor, because they never listen to us, so it's the same as what we say, it's the same as I say in three years I've been here, I never listen, so I have to insist; I have, as I said in the previous intervention, more moral than the Alcoyan because, as I am from Madrid, I'm also very persistent, I'm madridist, so I struggle until the last minute, though I know you're a real rock. Nor have I ever heard of myself saying... I spoke of humble advances, of course yes, but counselor, look, please, in autonomous communities that have better results, don't look at those that go worse, look at those that go better; for us the mirror has to be the ones that go well, not look back, the model to imitate are the ones that have better academic results, so leave those blankets that have historically. Counsellor, please put an end to the chaos that is taking place – although it can be done because it is your decision – with the development of teaching programming, and that it immediately transmits the corresponding instructions, through educational inspection, in order to try to resolve this unfortunate matter, the fruit of the imposition of a calendar – whether it likes to hear it or not, it is so – that it is feared and impossible for the educational community. Counsellor, you are responsible for the highest level of education in Galicia, and you have an obligation to reassure the teacher if you want to contribute, precisely, to avoid this chaos of what I say to him. I think I think I'm a good reflection, and I don't listen, when I tell you that the teacher is frankly upset with these stories, with this theme, for example, of the programming, even if it was done in the summer; they have difficulties, so you have an obligation to do something, there's a positive proposal, you can do it, and you can take the medal, please. They also recover seriously, and not only with electoral announcements at the doors of each election, the working and professional conditions of teachers, do it and do it from the budget of 16. They recover templates by summoning a powerful public job offer in 2016 to recover the lost during the austere phase; they commit the call of a powerful offer with the unions represented at the education sector table and let them know in advance thousands of people who prepare those oppositions. They end once and for all – and you can say no – with the cheating management of textbooks, I bear witness, I don't play either ear, ask the ANPAs, ask the management teams if what I say is true or not, Counsellor. Take out the austeric centers, and do it by recovering parts for operating expenses, teacher templates, teaching equipment and essentially computer equipment, installation arrangements and correcting the digital divide – yes, that gap exists Mr. Counsellor – and I'm stubborn, but because you talk about hundreds of megas and they don't get to the centers, they don't know them, Mr. Counsellor. They provide basic FP, please, with the necessary resources. I told you, a while ago, that you didn't put up a euro last year and that's going on, either; I don't know how you want to finance it. And there's also a serious problem: kids who end up in June 2016 won't have a degree, they won't be able to access it, you know why? for having made an impasse and run; they did wrong, Counselor, with this matter, now we have to fix it, we have to change a national decree; you do the management with the corresponding advisor, in this case with the minister. And to say, also, at the level of academic subjects and results, to me you never heard me say that it didn't improve, I say that it has improved, it has improved in recent years, and our titles are very well valued, then that goes in contradiction: if the system was so bad, you had to change it, put it up... why did you do it like that?, if it worked reasonably well, what are you now measuring are results of the previous laws, huh?, not of your laws – which, for now, it doesn't mediate. And what he was saying before the subject of appearance, Counselor, you didn't appear as he had to appear, is going to appear practically in November, that's the reality.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u376	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u377	There you are, Counselor, if you intend to go on without listening to anyone, which I think you will then not be able to complain that no one wants to talk about and, much less, deal with you. Mr. Rodríguez, do not allow with your inaction that the erratic and chaotic policy of the Education Counsellor, at this beginning of the course, may be leading the educational community to the insubordination which I do not wish, of course; and, please, you have some weapons in your hands, you get to work, and if I talk to you about proposals in a positive way, and I like to have a dialogue with you sensible and reasonable, calm.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u378	Thank you very much, Mr. Docasar.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u379	We're talking about education, because I think things can get better, Counselor, and don't pull so much breast, that it's not for so much, I don't think so.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u380	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u381	Don't pull your chest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u382	The Councillor for Culture, Education and Universitary Order Don Román Rodríguez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u383	Thank you very much, Mr. Docasar. I don't seem to be a person who pulls out a lot of chests, but, if you understood a lack of respect, for my part, who had told you to touch you by the ear, I take it away, but I don't interpret it as a lack of respect that you tell me here that I come by the ear, when my intention is to appear because I have registered a proposal to appear at your own time. But well, look, we look at ourselves with the best and we want to be like the best; autonomous communities, we look at the Basque Country and we're getting closer, we don't look at Andalusia, which is the worst; so look at you, so look at you. And, according to what we're talking about, you're listening: you said, in the morning, a question that caught our attention on didactic programming, and now you said that there are no instructions for inspection in the centers; you play your ear, you play your ear, because there is instruction in the centers, there are instructions sent out by training centers and resources, the old Cefodes. And you do: in 220 centers – around 20%, or less, of the network – there are specific training plans for the curricula. Well, I don't know, if you tell me that there are no didactic programmings, Mr. Docase, I'm sorry that with official data I contradict you, and with this it doesn't mean that you touch your ear, but reality is reality. And you also talk here about economic cuts, and your reasoning and your logic is "less money, worse education," is your reasoning and in general that of the opposition; there's no other, "less money, worse education." However, you say there are also humble advances, perhaps not so humble, and I say so humbly, perhaps not so humble. But let's see, I think you – there's a message that is not understandable to yourself – talks about fewer resources. And I'm telling you that yes, there are fewer resources than in 2009, less public resources, less money in the administration's archives, but yet there are better results, and we have a lot of parameters: the PISA report, we have remarkable improvements in the insertion of new technologies into learning, we have remarkable improvements in the teaching of multilingualism, we have improvements practically in all the educational variables that you manage. So how is it possible that, with less money, we can have better results? I think that's the question we should ask ourselves. How is that possible? Because that's really what you never explain to us, never. Bipartite: more resources than ever, annual increase in school failure, annual fall in FP enrolments, annual increase in university rates above the IPC. And you keep saying that, as there's less money, it works worse. No, there's less money and it works better. That's what you should think, and you should also think why you have your government responsibilities, like Andalusia, because they also cut. Or don't you in Andalusia get more than EUR 1 billion out of the public education system? Or didn't they? They tell me if they didn't, because if they didn't, I'll have to shut up, but no, I really think it's a message that doesn't shut up, that doesn't get into society because it really doesn't hold. And, look, it's true that the educational model has changed in recent years with the governments of the People's Party. Four premises: quality, equity, innovation and management. Quality, there are the results on the table. Equity, economic and educational. There's less school dropout, which to me is the most important variable. There's a greater adaptation of curricula to the educational needs of students, there's itineraries, which make it possible to give each student what he really needs, and there's greater redistributive justice in complementary services. Innovation: Project Plan, new technologies, inclusive methodologies. Management. To be able, with less resources, to maintain the public system and to improve in many variables. I think, beyond these questions you raise, I don't understand. And, to finish, a question that I would really ask: more honesty in your reasoning and that you don't let yourself be led by partyism. You're talking about returning to teachers what, what did the Socialist Party take away from them? Yes, you – the Socialist Party – were the ones who took the teachers around 7% of the salary and you were the ones who put the 10% replenishment rate. The People's Party took out their extra pay, and they're recovering it. You put the replacement rate at 10%, and we first put it at 50%...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u384	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u385	...and now we're at 100% of the replenishment rate; with which, I ask you a certain honesty, because, indeed, the People's Party is recovering what the Socialist Party took away, and there we agree. Mr. Docasar, it's a pleasure to talk to you, and we'll see you at the show. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u386	Thank you very much, Counselor. We continue the development of the agenda with questions from the Government. As has been communicated and accepted by the various spokesmen, we will begin the questions to the Government with Mrs. Martínez's question. Da María Consuelo Martínez García, from G.P. Jointly, on the forecasts of the Government of Greece regarding the presentation in the Galician Parliament of a reception plan for refugees
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u387	Mrs Martínez has the floor to ask her question.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u388	Thank you, President. According to the 1951 Refugee Convention, a refugee is a person who has left his country and cannot return for well-founded fear of persecution on grounds of race, religion, nationality, membership of a particular social group or political opinion. This is the condition of people leaving Syria, Kosovo, Afghanistan or Eritrea. The situation of the Syrian people who escape war and barbarism is the biggest European humanitarian crisis since World War II. Tens of thousands of people are trying to escape the war. More than 2,000 people lost their lives trying to cross the Mediterranean, and the few who manage to do so are confronted by the lack of solidarity of the European Union. The conflict already cost more than 230,000 human lives, and eleven and a half million people had to leave Syria. But the European Commission was willing to admit only 40,000 refugees, until the Kurdi family tragedy, with a picture of a three-year-old child killed on a Turkish beach and the consequent popular outrage, forced him to admit 120 additional refugees. Refugees trying to enter Europe are just a small part of those who are now seeking asylum in Turkey, Lebanon or Jordan, while Europe has problems giving asylum to a tenth of that figure, among its more than 500 million inhabitants. And to the shame of old Europe, xenophobia leads the governments of Bulgaria, Estonia, Poland and the Czech Republic or Slovakia to oppose sheltering refugees, mainly because of their Muslim status. The position of the Government of the State, after having raised with the European Union the number of people it will receive, by utterly warning of the possible arrival of Shihadists among the refugees, is that it will host the number of refugees which the European Union is assigning. We condemn the Nazi holocaust. We are moved to see the images about the concentration camps or the exodus of the Jewish people, but we do not seem to be moved by the images that show us today the exodus of other peoples who also suffer and escape their extermination. We're already in the fall and soon winter will be here, will we look as impatient as these human beings – men, women, children, children, old people – die abandoned to their fate at European borders? In Galicia the president of the Union informed the media that our country is prepared to accommodate up to 300 refugees. According to the survey of INE's 2011 housing census, there are 299,396 empty dwellings in Galicia. Families and municipalities like Lalín or La Coruña have already expressed their willingness to accommodate refugees who are trying to obtain asylum in Europe. In Galicia there are 314 municipalities. With each county sheltered 3 people sheltered, we'd already be in the 942 people housed. That's why it's essential to welcome sheltered people who have agreed with the municipalities to facilitate both reception and the establishment of measures...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u389	Thank you very much, Mrs. Martínez. [[Mrs. Martínez García speaks words that are not perceived.]] The work and well-being advisor, Mrs. Beatriz Mato, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u390	Thank you very much, President. First of all, I would like to thank the political groups of the BNG and the Joint Group for changing or changing now and for forwarding the round of questions to favour, in this case, the Government's agenda. The next one is to tell Mrs Martínez, as to this question that she asks the Government, which is the second time I come to this Parliament – still fifteen days ago – talking about the same subject. It's a matter of course important enough to come here how many times it takes; even I would tell Mrs. Martínez that your question was recorded on September 21, in particular when I, as an advisor, on September 16, made a record of an appearance to his own request precisely to account for this plan of welcoming refugees. So I think that record implicitly makes the answer you ask the Government, which is whether the Government will be here to realize this plan. Obviously yes, and we will, in addition, soon. Beyond your evaluation and appreciation of what is the worst drama currently living in the European Union right now, I would like to point out that here no one – and I am convinced –, no serious government, regattas it, and much less laughs it with people, because we are talking about the greatest drama the European Union is experiencing, in this case with the exodus of people, and therefore I think that in order to solve this situation the whole European Union must show its most humanitarian face, and for that all governments must show their resources. So, of course, President Alberto Núñez Feijóo understood it, when it was the first autonomous community that was offered to the Government of the State precisely to make available to him all the resources that, being the competence of this community, only the Government of Galician Union, we had at our disposal to work with the refugees. Of course, this is not a single step; it is not a matter of offering facilities alone, there is something much more complex and important, and we are talking about a policy that is a national policy that is specialized and needs such treatment; therefore, it has to be strictly coordinated, especially to ensure the dignity that all refugees need to come to our country, Spain, and, of course, to Galicia as well. That's what we're working on now everywhere, not only from the Union, but also from the Fegamp and from all the Europeans, to make available that protocol of action, that plan of action for refugees, which will not consist solely of having a home, as you've already shown. Not only are the 300 squares of the Government of Galicia, but, in total, the offer – which is not yet closed – of all the municipalities and oenegues can also overcome even the 1,000 facilities. But, of course, that's not the only work we have to do, but we have to respond to their needs together...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u391	Thank you very much, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u392	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u393	Mrs. Martínez García's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u394	I am glad, Counselor, that the Government has decided to move forward with this plan in agreement with the councils and social organizations, but I understand that it is not possible to wait for an audience. I suppose you'll understand the urgency. As I said in my speech, we're in the autumn, winter is coming, it's getting very cold in the countries where they are and the situation is critical; so I think it's urgent to get to work and that, if possible, already this month that comes in, of October, we start to be able to receive the first people. It's a state policy, but, once it's decided to welcome these people, it's a matter for the Union to work, no matter what the state does, to be able to accommodate that number of people. As I said, of course, it is not just a question of housing, it is a question of integration, of services, of people to be incorporated into health services, into education services, and therefore requires a complete plan, which I hope can be put into action as soon as possible. Anyway, we're going to follow up, and we expect the Board to really respond this time, as other countries replied in their case when the Spanish people were the people who were sending shelters all over the world, escaping from the Civil War and the Frankish repression. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u395	Thank you very much, Mrs. Martínez. The advisor's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u396	Thank you very much again. Mrs. Martínez, I share your concern with you, and what I can assure you is that since the minute you have been working, precisely, not only in the definition of that protocol, but also, of course, in all the tools that we will have to make available to all the families and people who come to our community. What I can move forward is that the difference is that there have been steps since the last fifteen days since I spoke in this Parliament until now, we've held two meetings of that interdepartmental working group since the Galician, Fegamp and the Oenegians. It's two meetings, but obviously they won't be the last. As I told you, this team is born with a vocation of permanence. It's not a job for a month, it's not even a job for a year, it's going to be a job for years, and so it's very important that we all work together coordinated. That's how the Government of Galicia understood it, and so we're all working, and when I say all of them, they're the municipalities, they're the oenegas and, of course, also the Galician Union. The same thing is being reflected in the state, where there is also a working group that was called precisely last Monday. Last Monday there was a meeting between the various departments of the Central Government, the Hungarians with national representation, obviously working with refugees, and the autonomous communities precisely to keep moving forward and clarifying what the reception situation is going to be when even the total number of refugees who are going to come to Spain is even reported. We still have a lot to move on. We need to know how the whole paper issue is going to be done to believe your situation, whether you're going to be in the place of origin, in this case you're in Italy and Greece, if you're going to do it in Spain... ultimately, competition is in the state, but from the Unity of Galicia we'll have all our tools, all our resources, to make, first of all, a welcome, and then, of course, working on that integration that will have as Spaniards and as full-fledged Greeks, that will be the moment they arrive at our community. So we'll have to talk to them about health care, we'll have to talk to them about education, we'll have to guarantee them, as it can be no other way, living and, of course, we'll also have to help them in their integration, which goes by coordinating also a network of volunteers that can contribute to their life, not only in social habits, but also in language. Finally, Mrs Martínez, I share your concern with you; the result of this concern was the first autonomous community that we have worked hard to make available to the central government – who has the competence – all our resources, and I can assure you that I will come here to take care of that plan as soon as it is fully finished. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u397	Thank you very much, Counselor. Question from Da María do Carme Adán Villamarín and two other MPs from G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on Labour Discrimination and Political Repression for Participating in a nomination in municipal elections by ESYCSA
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u398	You have the word of Mrs. Adam to ask his question.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u399	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, Counselor. Today we asked the German Government about a clear violation of a worker's rights and freedoms for being dismissed justly for taking part in an electoral list, for being fired by ideological issues. I don't think you have to just remember in this House how there is international legislation, including the Declaration of Human Rights itself, the Constitution of the Spanish State or the Statute of Self-Government, that they legitimize and clearly reflect that it is a right of everyone to participate freely in political life, that is to say, to participate in an electoral list. Well, Counselor, it turns out that a woman, Maite Mouriño – as she had already been in the media – received a letter of dismissal on June 11, after the municipal elections. A letter of dismissal after eleven years of work in a company – in particular, Signalization and Control Teams, which belongs to the ACS group – that is working for different public administrations, mainly at the local level; a company that belongs to a group that has recognized this so often called "corporate social responsibility"; a company that boasts of having an ethical code, which even says in that ethical code such as the following: that rejects all discrimination for any reason of age, sex, religion, race, sexual orientation, nationality, disability... and that its own president – this extensive report says that every year they hang from their website – rightly, Mr. Florentino Pérez, who work for corporate responsibility to improve their levels of ethics and ethical code. Well, Counselor, that company sends a farewell letter to a woman for going to number three on an election list in Borbonne Peace. We consider this to be a very serious fact that violates rights – as I already said – and people's freedoms, and marks a very harsh precedent, where fear, where "don't get into politics" – or at least in certain ideologies – marks a red line for political participation. In view of the seriousness of this fact, the suffering of this young woman, who is in Parliament today – although she cannot be in the gallery since we do not have guests and guests in these plenary sessions – we consider it to be well worth the attention of the Greek Government. That's why we ask you today, Counselor, and the whole Government, as they value such a serious fact, as they value an ideological dismissal, if you've been interested in this dismissal...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u400	Thank you very much, Mrs. Adam.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u401	...and basically what you're going to tell us today and do about it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u402	Thank you very much. The work and well-being advisor, Mrs. Beatriz Mato Otero, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u403	Well, Mrs. Adam, the truth is that even in your intervention or even when I had the opportunity to read your question in writing -- in the first paragraph, in particular -- I had to be surprised, because it might be of the few times that I fully agree with each of the words you did in your exhibition. When he speaks of a democratic society, when he speaks of a society free from obviously electing its representatives, and, of course, when he even speaks of the articles of what you were talking about, which he even mentioned in the Constitution, which says that, indeed, all Spanish people are equal before the law and, of course, no kind of discrimination can be allowed either by race or by sex or religion or, of course, by belonging to a social or political choice. And so, Mrs. Adam, what do you want me to tell you about what it looks like and whether this is worthy to criticize or not when you talk about a layoff for a reason like the one you taxfully claim? Well, my answer would have to be that I totally agree with you. The only difference is that I still question is whether that roundness with which you talk about the reasons for the dismissal, that roundness, are exactly the reasons why they moved a company to do the dismissal. You say it's unique and exclusively because it belongs to a political formation, something that obviously doesn't have to do with directing this council. I suppose, as you know very well – and Mrs. Mouriño, who will also be listening – is right now in a judicial process; and, therefore, it will be a judge who has to resolve whether the reasons were objective or not, and what were the reasons for that dismissal and whether they were according to the law. Meanwhile, Mrs. Adam, what this counselor does – which is the one with the labour authority and, therefore, has to protect the workers' rights – is to do precisely this. And the way we have to work to protect workers' rights is to work together with the Labour Inspectorate – who you know very well depends on the Ministry of Labour. And we act in two ways, Mrs. Adam, we act on our own initiative, making our inspections – that this year will be 37,000 and that are increased with respect to the year – or we act as soon as there is a complaint. In the specific case of what you're talking to me about, in this dismissal, there was no complaint either before the Labour Inspectorate nor even before the Council; and therefore neither this board nor the Inspectorate could react to a complaint that was non-existent. And in the meantime, for the present time, what we have to say is that it's legal, and you should know – that I'm convinced that you know it – that while the Labour Inspectorate is on the legal track, it cannot do or intervene absolutely for nothing, precisely so as not to intervene in a judicial decision in an open procedure. Meanwhile – I insist, Mrs. Adam – I cannot but agree with you in your statements when you're saying that you can't violate workers' rights, and more if it's for those reasons.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u404	Thank you very much, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u405	What I doubt is that these are the reasons for dismissal. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u406	Mrs. Adam, reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u407	Counselor, with your doubt you're putting here a real suspicion, after what you just said... it's a suspicion after you say a doubt... they're calm. [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] But apart from all the laws we have just mentioned before, you also know perfectly well that Law 14/2013, of rationalization of the autonomic public sector, where you talk about the responsibilities of companies that are engaged with public administrations and, as in that law, is collected exactly, in both Article 19 and Article 30, the need for a responsible recruitment where the rights of workers and workers are not violated in any way. But it is more, in the Law itself, adopted in 2015, of the quality of public services, in its own Article 50 rightly addresses in its first subparagraph the need to promote conditions of employment reconciliation and gender equality and with regard to workers and workers. Every law clearly gathers the need not to violate the rights of workers and workers in their participation in public life. But also that those companies that work – as is the case with this company – for public administrations and that really have a lot of benefits from these public administrations have a relationship with the public administrations in which these – and this is the case with the Government of Greece – see that in companies they really take into account the ethical codes and all this bullshit about corporate responsibility, that nothing else fills sheets, because then the reality is that these companies have no real reconciliation plans or respect the rights of workers and workers. And today our group, the BNG Group, wants to denounce in this Parliament and wants the Government of Greece to hear that the rights of a worker, a citizen, a fundamental right of a citizen, which is to participate in politics, have been violated.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u408	Thank you very much, Mrs. Adam.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u409	...defending his ideology.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u410	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u411	And we want the German Government more commitment, more than just doubts.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u412	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u413	Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u414	Replica from the Government. The work and well-being advisor has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u415	Thank you very much again. The truth is that the company you are talking about, Esycsa, in particular, which is the company that brings us here today to this Parliament, I do not know exactly – I did not confirm – whether you are working – in particular, this company – in some department in the Union of Galicia or in some department in the Union of Galicia. What I could check is that you're working for the Town Hall of Tomine, where you've been running a formation of the Nationalist Block in Galicia since 2007. [[Murmurs.]] I could even see that Esycsa... No, I don't know, maybe. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Esycsa is also working in the Vigo Town Hall. Well, it's true that, anyway, I insist that I understand that this demand that you make for the Government of Galician Union I suppose will extend it – and will ask for explanations – also to all public administrations that can currently have a contractual relationship with this company. [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] Having said this, anyway, since this I would advise what we have to do and what we continue to do is work aside for the protection of the rights of all workers with the tools that legislation puts us in our hands.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u416	Quiet, please. [[Murmurs.]] Quiet, please. I ask you to respect the shifts and those who speak, and you're talking to the counselor. [[Mr. Pombo Rodríguez utters words that are not perceived.]] Well, Mr. Pombo, you have no word. Counselor, continue, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u417	Sorry, I didn't know what municipalities they had hired the company was to miss about it, but, well...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u418	Mr. Pombo!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u419	Well, I said this...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u420	Quiet, please! Quiet, please! [[Murmurs.]] Counselor, continue. [[Murmurs.]] Continue, Counselor, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u421	Finally, the most important thing for me is to reassure the honourable Member who is asking this question about the defence and protection of workers' rights in our community, which is, of course, our responsibility, with the legislation we have, with our competences and even with the tools through the Labour Inspection. That's what we're doing every day. I insist, we did it on our own with 37,000 inspections, we do it every time there's a complaint. We had no record of any complaints about this harassment, this violation, both at the Labour Inspectorate and here. And, of course, what I can assure you is that, even now, the Labour Inspectorate, since the subject is judicialized, can't and should - and that is precisely what the law says - intervene so as not to interfere in this judicial decision. In particular, Article 20 of the Computer Law of the Labour Inspectorate states that they want to establish this competence. In the meantime, in fact, no kind of violation of workers' rights will be tolerated, and of course, much less had it been for a reason such as to participate actively in the world of politics. That couldn't have been tolerated, the judge would have said what the reasons were. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u422	Thank you, Counselor. Question by Da María Soledad Piñeiro Martínez, from G.P. Popular of Galicia, about the degree of execution of the works of the highway of the Costa da Morte
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u423	Mrs. Piñeiro has the floor to ask her question.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u424	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, Counsellor, the Galician People's Parliamentary Group, in this honourable Member's voice, wants to ask you today a question, which is as simple as asking which state is the work of an infrastructure that was designed by a Government of the People's Party for the year 2005 and which had to be resumed or rescued by another Government of the People's Party in 2009; a work that has suffered all sorts of pitfalls, political pitfalls and economic pitfalls. We asked you, Counselor, on the highway to the Coast of Death. Possibly, Counselor, no work in Galicia had gone through so many difficulties, but possibly no government had ever been able to keep so firm its commitment and its will to seek solutions and to move forward with it. I am committed and willing to see that they were maintained for two basic reasons: one of them was to comply with the word given on his day to the neighbours of the Coast of Death, and another because this government of Mr.Núñez Feijóo believes – as I believe and how the People's Party believes – the strategic importance of this work to the Coast of Death. Because this government has understood the need we had in the area to alleviate a road deficit that makes it very difficult for us to communicate with the Crown, a city with which the Death Coast maintains very strong links; all kinds of ties, health, education, economic and even social ties. A highway called to be the spinal axis of the area, thus generating new opportunities for the present and future economic initiatives and promoting new ones. An infrastructure that also has to be used to give a boost to tourism in the area and, like, business parks located in their area of influence. On the Coast of Death, Madam Counsellor, we have put a lot of hope that this infrastructure will allow us to get more people closer to the Coast of Death and that the Coast of Death will be closer to new opportunities. And what I'm going to ask you now, too, Counselor, may look like a joke or it may look like a whim, but it's not – I don't think it is – We would like for the last time to confirm here, in parliamentary headquarters – as you have already done in many other forums and here too – that the highway of the Coast of Death will be free of charge. I don't ask it for us, we believe it firmly from the beginning, I don't tell it by the People's Party, please tell it, and tell it to the opposition groups, and it will be revealed to them, because they are able to spend at best several days circulating free of charge for it and say it's going to be paid. Nothing else, for now, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u425	Thank you, Mrs. Piñeiro. Mr. Vázquez Mourelle has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u426	Thank you, President. Mrs Piñeiro, of course in the Government of Greece, we are fully aware that the highway to the Coast of Death is a vital infrastructure for the development of the region, a path that will, of course, be free from toll, and strategic to achieve the vertebration of the area, fundamental to improving competitiveness and essential for economic, social and tourist development on the Coast of Death. From our arrival at Junta, we worked tirelessly, we made huge efforts to make this bus a reality, because there were many of the traps we had to solve. For the sake of public interest we prioritized the third one, between Carballo and Baio, the third that records the largest volume of traffic, the third that is the longest, 27 kilometers – hence, 60% of the route – and that also allows to attend the five municipalities of the route. Once all the traps have been overcome, and also despite the attempts by some to entangle and deprive the neighbours of the Death Coast of this infrastructure, our efforts have been directed, they are going, to get this essential infrastructure to be in service, therefore finished and in service, within the time limits that we have committed. Since last March, work has been substantially intensified. In the area today are 260 workers working, more than 120 machines working daily. And this means not only that it will have a positive impact on economic dynamisation when it is put into service, but that the benefits are already being noticed today by the jobs and also by the occupation and activity that we have recorded in hotels, in hostel establishments, and also in restaurants in the area. Although it is a work of great dimensions, of great complexity –6 viaducts, 8 links, 18 lower steps, 15 higher steps – the works march at great speed, with earth movements that are about 90%; and highly advanced singular works, 83% as far as their structures are concerned. As a whole, the degree of execution of the Highway on the Coast of Death is around 62%. So let them, as we have committed, this vital infrastructure for the Coast of Death is finished, be at the service of the citizens next summer. For my part, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u427	Thank you very much, Counselor. Mrs. Piñeiro, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u428	Thank you very much, Counselor. Thank you for your respectful response and, above all, for your efforts both by you and by your predecessor, Mr. Hernández, to meet the Death Coast in the midst of an economic crisis, thus palliating the management of the scourge of another government, unfathomable in this House, with this highway in full economic goodness. The highway of the Coast of Death obviously benefits the general interest, like all channels of communication, but it is always inevitable, when there are these kinds of works, that cause inconveniences and inconveniences on an individual level, in this case the neighbors who have properties that match the plot or in the vicinity of it. And we know that it is the responsibility of the promoters of these infrastructures to compensate adequately and in a prudently short time these landowners who do not care about their land for the sake of the general interest. That's why I'd like you to clarify something about the issue of the payment of expropriations as well. And another question, Counsellor: from some political areas, they also accuse the Government of failing to meet the demands of the neighbours or their municipal representatives. And I know very well that's not so, I know the reality. But I'd like you to explain it again, particularly with regard to the links to the highway and more specifically in Piolla. It's a pity those who throw these bubbles didn't raise their shoulder in their day and devote themselves just to putting traps and doing everything so the highway wouldn't reactivate. When I say "all," I say "all," from insulting to even reaching the Prosecutor's Office to paralyze the work. By the way, the Prosecutor's office found no crime in any of the U.S. acts, but we haven't heard any apologies from the irresponsible promoters of this complaint yet. We encourage them to continue to work and, of course, to continue with the idea that, as soon as possible, they can accommodate the second third of the work.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u429	Thank you very much, Mrs. Piñeiro.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u430	Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u431	Mrs. Ethel Vázquez has the floor of the Environmental, Territorial and Infrastructure Advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u432	Thank you, President. Mrs. Piñeiro, if there is anything in which the German Government, of course, has put special care, special consideration, when designing and programming the execution of the highway on the Coast of Death, because it was precisely to meet the demands of the municipalities and neighbours and, of course, to prioritize and speed up the payment of expropriations. In particular, with regard to expropriations, all of the 3,000 farms are already paid to their owners today, or are placed at the disposal of the owners at the time of their request. Even with the people who decided to appeal, within their right, against the valuation of their estates to the expropriation jury, we took the initiative to proceed with the payment of the amount offered by the Administration at its time, called the "limit of agreement". Thus, all expropriations are paid in total; in total, we have paid 9 million euros in respect of expropriations. And together with this, we also pay special attention to the issues that move us both to local administrations and to the neighbors of the area. That's why we held many meetings, many meetings, both with the neighbors and with the mayors. Just last July we held an important meeting with the mayors of Zas, Coristanco and Bergantinos to present the design of the links of the future highway. A decision that, after listening to the municipalities and also to the neighbors, was based on strict criteria, technical criteria for functionality and road safety. And after conducting the studies in which these two aspects were determinants, road safety and functionality, the link of San Paio remained, as it was projected at first, and it was determined that the best solution to replace the link of the Pillla and the link to road C-423 was a single link in the Rempenin. And he decided to reform the intersection of Piola by running a roundabout, a roundabout to reinforce that road safety. And the government can assure you that it will comply with the commitment agreed upon with its neighbours. This roundabout will be serviced at the same time as the highway to the Coast of Death, an agreement and an obligation to the inhabitants of the Coast of Death. Of course, we're going to comply with our word by running every single link as we agree with local administrations and neighbors, and putting this vital and strategic infrastructure into service next time, which will generate new opportunities, will make it possible to make the most of the potential of the region and will, of course, contribute to greater economic development on the Coast of Death. For my part, that's all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u433	Thank you, Counselor. Question by Mr Abel Fermín Losada Álvarez and two other Members of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the assessment made by the Government of the sale process of the company R Cable to the operator Euskaltel
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u434	You have the word, Mr. Losada, to ask your question.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u435	Yes, thank you, Madam President. Counselor, I'm not going to start with the micro-economics of the Tomino Town Hall contracts, it seems to me that there are more important things. I'm going to start with macro-economics. Since the economic guru of the president of every Wednesday did not tell him properly, I would ask you to explain to Mr Feijóo – they have to do with R and it has to do with the internationalization of companies – that the European EQ, or, what is the same, the quantitative expansion, was unsuccessful in terms of growth in Europe for two reasons: because it was used to finance banks primarily, to clear the balances of the banks fruit of the deregulations on the right, and because, as there is no demand for wage devaluation and cuts in public services, because pure and simply the economy does not start. I insist that you do "guru bis" and explain these things to you, because the truth is, as a Greek, it gives me a little shame that Mr. Feijóo, in the incursions he makes in the economy every Wednesday each other, does the ridiculously. And we are now going to the subject of R, indeed. I'm going to start with a scientific paper methodology, with key words: telecommunications, ICT, Amtega, budgets, competitiveness and Industry 4.0. Today, in addition, the counsellor who accompanies you, the education adviser, has repeatedly spoken of Euskadi, and then we have the opportunity to return to Basquedi. These key words perfectly reflect what has happened to company R, a company created with the liberalisation of Aznar in 1999, which has a more than satisfactory level of technological frontier for the middle level of the economy of this country, and which, after several financial avatars – and I am not against the freedom of enterprise, I am in favour of the role of politics in the economy, which are perfectly compatible, Counsellor, as you know for sure – this company ends up, a very important part of it, 70%, in the hands of a venture capital fund. And we also know what is the usual way to act from these funds, which is pure and simply to get benefits. It's legitimate, I can't question it in theoretical and ethical terms. But once you own it, you undoubtedly have every right to do so. But the remaining 30%, Mr. Counsellor, is in the hands of Abanca, Abanca, that financial institution that was going to watch for Galicia's interests, so he was toasting himself in Monte Pio with his eyes wet with tears in the face of the emotion of a financial fabric of this autonomous community – remember? So parallel to that, we have another autonomous community called Euskadi, we have a real box called Kutxabank, and we have a cable operator called Euskaltel. I don't think he needs to tell her much more. The political role of each and every other, and the outcome of the decisions...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u436	Thank you very much, Mr. Losada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u437	...policy on the economy, Counsellor. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u438	Thank you very much. Mr. Conde López has the floor of the Councillor for Economics and Industry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u439	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Losada, the truth is, I must admit I'm surprised. I'm surprised you speculated about Abanca's commitment to Galicia based on a specific operation, which you also know is common in the telecommunications sector. I am not going to transfer to you now the whole process by which the banking of the boxes was produced, surely the governor of the Banco de España - socialist - and Minister Salgado - socialist - can give you an explanation for how this process occurred in Spain, and how they led to the collapse, almost close to the breakdown, the Spanish banking system. In any case, it seems that the Socialist Party now has as its reference Mr Stiglitz, and surely you can resort to it to effectively resolve all these issues, even those operations that you know of concentration in the telecommunications sector that are on the agenda both in Spain and in Europe, and which are very closely linked to gaining size. In any case, you ask for a government assessment of this operation, and I'll give it to you. Everything that involves leading R forward, developing its potential inside and outside Galicia, in principle I move you that for this government is positive. There's no reason to believe otherwise, unless you come here simply looking for a headline, which is usually what, when you talk about industrial policy, is what you want, moving situations from Pemex, situations from Pescanova, situations from Abanca; ultimately, it seems that, rather than defending the interests of businesses and workers in Greece, you come looking for a headline. But this afternoon, if you'll excuse me, I'll give you a headline: "Barreras will build a camel fleet of Pemex Reform." Look what they insisted, Mr. Losada, that the fleets were a lie! and now it turns out that not only two fleets will be made, three fleets will be made. [[Murmurs.]] And they insisted – and it comes to the scope of this question – because they said that Pemex entered the capital of Barreras to take advantage of his technology. And it turns out now, Mr. Losada, that what we have is a modernized yard with more workload. That's the reality when you talk about industrial policy. In any case, I already tell you that the position of this government with respect to R and that operation being moved is logically that when it occurs – which has not yet occurred, it is not yet approved by the National Committee on the Market in Values and Competition – because logically what we will try to defend is that investment is maintained in the territory, that employment is maintained in Galicia, that the headquarters is maintained in Galicia, that structures and the brand R are maintained and that, of course, that the relationship with the Italian productive fabric is maintained, especially with the Galician companies that are suppliers. That's our opinion as a government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u440	Thank you. Mr. Losada Álvarez's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u441	Counselor, I am very glad that the two fleets of Pemex had been built, I have always said so... yes, yes, I have always said so in this Parliament. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Always! [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u442	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u443	What I said was, when we asked for information and hid, we would legitimately suspect it. And by the way, we suspected with some reason, because you're talking about two fleets and you also know everything the president of the board announced that Pemex was going to build in Galicia. But we're going to leave the ships. We're talking Langosteira tip, if you like. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Look, Counselor, I care a lot about the financial system, and I care a lot about the bank. You know why? Because they took 9,000 million euros public, and I know it was to shield citizens' deposits, not tell me stories I already know, but 9,000 million euros public. And then at once we see these headlines: "Banca wins 182 million until June but announces that it will not advance the outstanding payments to the FROB," that is, to all of us. And in the meantime, he makes cash by selling the participating companies, Counselor. And you and Mr. President of the Board, who have been excited at Montepío... well, you don't know whether he was still or he wasn't, but he offered the previous one, I'm sorry, it's like a wine cellar. In any case, that emotion in the toast had to have the correlation of face-to-face when you see exactly as the depositary of Galicia's spirit in the Greek financial system comes to what all financial agents come to, making cash and business. And by the way, R, if you really think about that purchase from Basquel to R... Because, I insist, buys Euskaltel to R, don't come with thirsty effects. That thirst will stay where?, where will you stay, Counselor?, in Tomineño?, will you stay in Tomineño? Maybe she's staying in Tomino, I say because the fellow governor was very worried about that town hall. I mean, the thirst is going to Euskadi.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u444	Thank you very much, Mr. Losada. Thank you very much. Thank you, Mr. Losada. [[Mr. Losada Álvarez pronounces words that are not perceived.]] [[Applause]] Replica from Economic and Industrial Counsellor Francisco José Conde.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u445	Mr. Losada, I thought, in your speech with regard to Pemex, the fleets, that you wanted to make an explicit recognition to this government, to the naval sector and to Pemex, indeed, by the alliance between Pemex and Galicia. I believe that, more than implicit recognitions, in the next plenary surely you will have the opportunity to explicitly and concretely transfer that recognition to both the Government and the President of the Board as well as Pemex. Let's hope so. [[Applause]] Anyway, Mr. Losada, do you know Telecable? I suppose so, as is the case with that Asturian telecommunications operator. I don't know what opinion you deserve from Zegona Communications, which is a British telecommunications company, as you know.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u446	Mr. Losada!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u447	Because I imagine you will know perfectly what the Asturian Government has done, even the opposition of the Asturian Socialist Federation, which is nothing. In any case, as I have already moved to the original question, the Government, of course, is focused on telecommunications, defending the position of our companies, in particular R, and all that, all the initiatives, which allow activity, create jobs in our country. And, of course, that's what we're doing in the follow-up to this operation, I insist, which has to be evaluated still by the board of directors and the board of shareholders of Euskaltel and by the National Commission of Markets and Competition itself. Logically, we will involve ourselves as a government so that this potential operation can be a guarantee for all the Greeks, and, of course, a guarantee, Mr. Losada, in terms of investments, employment and linkage with our productive fabric. That's the bet we have, logically, on telecommunications, and that's what we're defending with our politics. All the instruments go in that direction in economic policy and industrial policy, with the Strategy of Intelligent Specialization and with the Agenda Galicia Industry 4.0. And to this government, Mr Losada, what matters is actually to grow and create more jobs. And, of course, I hope your group joins once and for all in adding up, not always being against. I think it wouldn't happen to you if you tried to support some a priori, not a posteriori, as you do in the Pemex theme, but a priori, so that you actually stopped sending apocalyptic messages. In any case, Mr. Losada, I recommend that you not do as in the case of the Greek financial institutions. Because when you, the Socialist Party, had the opportunity to defend the Greek capital companies your party, the Galician Socialist Party, voted against. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u448	Thank you, Counselor. Question from Da Yolanda Díaz Pérez, G.P. of the Alcoa Alternative, on the actions being carried out in Galicia to ensure the employment and productive activity of the Alcoa plant in Coruña
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u449	You have the word, to put the question, Mr. Fajardo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u450	Good afternoon, Counselor. I hope that I, who don't come looking for any headlines, don't answer the naval sector to a question that has to do with Alcoa. Well, as you will know, after the energy market process that you've had to deal with the last auctions of the unemployment service, the situation of the Alcoa workers continues as always, in the face of uncertainties and threats that can put 400 jobs at risk, all derived from an energy market where the People's Party and the powers of this country try to guarantee are the great benefits and embolsements of large amounts for multinationals without that having to do with a situation of stability for employment or, at least, future investment that makes it clear that employment in Alcoa-Coruña can be set towards the future with certain stability. Not only that, but the model that you adopt means that it's very expensive for citizenship, for the end consumer, and what you get is great support for the industry that I would like you even to be able to quantify how many millions of euros or how many thousands of euros per employee if they could be transformed if they were directly to employees. What we're asking you is whether you're going to condemn the Alcoa template that year after year is with water on your neck in your workplaces before the company's use of your staff to get economic benefits that guarantee you those benefits that are then invested outside of Galicia and even outside of the state, or whether, on the contrary, you're going to make decisions about this company as other self-governments have already taken, as the Asturian might be. You know that today the company's management continues with the possible threat, continues with uncertainty about jobs, however, yes, it has achieved very beneficial energy buying situations. In that sense, what we expect is that you tell us, in this process, what you're going to do to Together, or what you're going to do, or whether you're going to allow us to be in this situation a year longer waiting when the company uses, let's say, as the workers parapet for their business benefit, or if you have some project on the table to change this energy model that allows us to have a more stable framework, that generates certainties, that generates job quality and that allows, therefore, that these 400 jobs that are fundamental to a region and a province like Coruña can be kept in time and are not simply used, I insist, that a company get benefits in a model and in an energy framework where the only beneficiaries are the company and the electricity. Because I must remember that electricity is subsequently subsidized by the state, and those who end up paying these amounts are the final recipients and users. So I expect your answer and don't come with answers or examples about Pemex.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u451	Thank you, Mr. Fajardo. Mr. Conde López has the floor of the Councillor for Economics and Industry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u452	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Fajardo, this government has a very clear policy from an energy point of view. It logically shares an energy policy which guarantees the competitiveness of companies and in particular of electro-intensive companies. And you know that, because it is not the first time this government has spoken in this Parliament, as you know, Mr Fajardo, all the Alcoa workers. This has always been the position of the Galician Union, because I have personally transferred it to the Alcoa company's own committee on several occasions. And the last time was no more than a week ago. And that's what we're working on. Last year, as you will recall, we've already managed to get the Ministry to celebrate a second bid that has met the needs of our industrial fabric, and particularly of Alcoa. This same year you know that we managed to get the Ministry, firstly, to push forward so that companies, in fact, have time to get to know their remuneration and plan their projects, and that it kept – very important – the same funds for the payout of interruptability. And of course, Mr. Fajardo, this government will continue to work on defending a system that improves the current system and which, logically, allows, first of all, greater stability in the payment of service from a temporary point of view, and which assumes a better certainty from the point of view of knowledge of the price by electrointensive companies. This is the clear and powerful position of the Galician Union, which is defending in front of the central government. Because, Your Honor, we fully agree with that, we fully agree, at least, with Together and with the workers. What I don't really know is what the position of your parliamentary group is, because it will agree that AGE should clarify its position on this matter, except that, like the Socialist Party, a headline should come here. Look, your colleague, Antonio Sánchez, told us in Commission 6 this month that the payment for interruption is aberrant to consumers. Now you tell me here that it turns out that the system allows great benefits to multinationals. What's AGE's position? Do you come here to defend the workers? Do you come here to defend Alcoa? Do you come here to defend consumers? Do you come here to defend the Government? What is the real position of AGE? Look, Mr. Fajardo, we're not looking for political revenues, we're looking for solutions for the workers and we're looking for solutions for the electrointensive companies. And for now what we are achieving is concrete facts and giving continuity in the employment of companies that participate in the interruptability system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u453	Thank you. Mr. Fajardo Recoso's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u454	The truth is, I'm not coming out of my surprise. Look, when I was a kid, I was diagnosed with dyslexia, and even I was able to understand that what my partner says is aberrant and what I say, that the only beneficiary is the great multinational electric in this case, is the same thing. I can understand that. If you're not able to understand it, we have a problem in Galicia; because if our industry advisor is not able to understand that issue, it is clear that it leaves us in a complex situation. I asked you a question based on a question, about the need to create stability so that in the future jobs would not be money for the company's profits. But you never referred to jobs at any time, it is clear what the objectives of your policy are. Your policy is not based on demanding the company that, in exchange for that model that allows you, I insist, to have great benefits, in exchange for an energy model where at the end the only thing you pay is the last consumer, the final consumer, in exchange for that, you don't even demand investment in the future, or even job maintenance. And we have to remember that all this starts at the moment Mr Aznar privatizes this company. That's the beginning of this situation, where we privatize a fundamental sector for our country just so that large multinationals can do business. And the investment commitments that were made at that time disappeared from reality. And that investment, which was taken directly, was beyond the narrow. Those are the realities of Alcoa. And I planted it: what will planning do to change that energy model that avoids that uncertainty about the work of our company, that company, our country? Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u455	Thank you, Mr. Fajardo. Replica from the Economic and Industry Councillor, Mr. Conde.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u456	The truth is, Mr. Fajardo, I understand perfectly that it is very difficult for you to move a coherent stance from AGE, because, of course, what I don't know is whether you are currently defending the position of Anova or the position of Left United. The truth is it's a situation that is often difficult to interpret on the part of this government. In any case, Your Honor, we are next to the workers of Alcoa, we are logically defending their demands, because they seem to us that they are reasonable and shared by the Council of Galicia. When you talk about the interruptability system, I'm sorry you identified it with Alcoa. The system of interruption has as its beneficiaries more than 130 companies and therefore affects the set of companies that in Spain and which benefit from this system in Galicia, and which, therefore, allows them to come to the market in a competitive position and therefore, in fact, to be able to make it possible for them to operate and maintain jobs. We, as a government, have a very clear industrial policy, a very clear energy policy, and we are next to all companies that create value, such as electro-intensive companies, such as Pescanova, Clessa, Barreras, all companies that, logically, are effectively linked to the productive fabric. As you know, we with Alcoa have been working for a long time. And in the second post of 2014, as I moved it, that pay that was kept in 2015... and I say more to you: the Board – and you know it, you should recognize it from time to time –, the Board has supported Alcoa in all the projects developed in Galicia, from Galicia, including, as you know, access to the supply of natural gas to the San Cibrao plant. In any case, I regret that AGE's industrial policy is totally schizophrenic, because we don't know if we're talking to a group or another. What is true is that it would be good for all of you to identify what your industrial policy is and what your energy policy is, because it looks like you're the only one who pursues is to give Galician meat to businesses. And what I don't know, Mr. Fajardo, is whether they're looking for these galeguity meats is whether they have the Greek or foreign capital, I don't know; I don't know, if it's foreign, if it's better to be American than Italian; I don't know if they like the production of aluminium more than the paper pulp; and I don't know whether it's in the South with you more requirements for you or not. The truth is, I don't know. What we are defending is the companies that develop their activity in Galicia. And, look, if it were for you, we'd close Alcoa, close Reganosa, close the thermal power stations, close Elnosa, close Ence, and throw 15,000 Welsh and Welsh out in the street. We won't. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u457	Thank you very much, Counselor. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Mr Sánchez, indeed, but the allusions, according to the Rules of Procedure, if you read it carefully, you value the presidency, and the allusions must involve judgments of value, or you must heed the dignity of yourself as a Member. [[Protests.]] And I think in this case, Mr. Sánchez... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Protests.]] Excuse me... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Mr. Losada, you are not in this debate. Mr. Losada, would you like me to call you in order? I'm not talking to you, I'm talking... [[Protests.]] Mr. Losada, I will not finish the full without calling you to order. Do the favor. [[Murmurs.]] Mr. Sánchez... let me speak, please, let me speak quietly, let me speak... [[Murmurs.]] Mr. Tellado, do you want another call to order before you finish full? [[Murmurs.]] But please be quiet. I ask for peace. Mrs. Prado, Mrs. Prado... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I think it's all right, if you want me to talk, if you're supposed to be the one I have to talk, please do it. I would not consent under any concept that they had failed or violated their demeanor dignity. Allusions value the presidency, and you don't think you have the floor. So let's go on with the agenda, if they let us finish. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Well, I think it's very nice, Mr. Sánchez. Question by Mr Moisés Blanco Paradelo and seven other Members of the G.P. Galician People, on the Number of Projects Benefited by the Resources of the Technology Fund 2007-2013
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u458	Mr. Blanco has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u459	Thank you very much, President. Mr. Economy and Industry Adviser, known as the 2007-2013 Technology Fund, I have submitted a special economic injection which, managed by the General Administration of the State, has been directed to all autonomous communities to promote research and technological development, with particular attention to the so-called convergence regions. The budget for this program was about 3,300 million euros; of which, 360 million were awarded by Brussels to Galicia, which together with Andalusia, Castile the Mancha and Extremadura, were the biggest matches received. Well, Counsellor, this very thing was announced with satisfaction in this Parliament by the Councillor for Economics and Business of the Bipartisan Government, Xosé Ramón Fernández Antonio, on May 10, 2006, who informed the House that Galicia would receive the 360 million euros from the Technology Fund. He explained that economic vice-president Pedro Solbes had informed him of the distribution at the meeting of the Fiscal and Financial Policy Council, and said that in July the Council would have developed the strategic framework, and that in October – we are talking about the year 2006 – the operational programmes would be ready. At that session, he also called on the Greek entrepreneurship to engage in the Union strategy and to take better advantage of Community funds than in past times, especially those relating to innovation and the knowledge society. So, on the one hand, from that left-wing government, it appealed to the collaboration and involvement of the private entrepreneurship while taking advantage of it to criticize the use of funds from previous stages. Counsellor, both you and the Director General of the Galician Innovation Agency have talked about the low or minimal execution of these funds with which the People's Party was found when you entered the Government in 2009, which seems to be that those plans of the Bipartite for the development of strategic frameworks and operational programs, as well as the desire to make better use of funds, have not been carried out. Our group tells us that both former advisor Javier Guerra, like you, precisely to avoid the loss of public capital – more precious than ever in a situation of lack of generalized resources – has proposed to encourage consultants and technology centres to act as advisors to companies that want to innovate and thus achieve the greatest possible budget execution. It should be recalled that the Technology Fund is mobilised through the financial instruments of the Ministry's dependent Centre for Industrial Technology Development, and the proposals submitted on the basis of the availability of funds from the Autonomous Community. So, given the importance of these funds for the development of quality innovative projects, from the People's Group today we want to ask you how many projects have benefited from the technological fund's approach. And we also wanted to know what your valuation of this budget was. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u460	Thank you very much, Mr. Blanco. The economic and industrial advisor, Mr. Conde, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u461	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Blanco, indeed, from the very first moment this government had made it clear that the momentum of innovation had to be a fundamental axis of economic policy and industrial policy, because, indeed, that innovation policy has to mark a change within the industrial model of our country, and thus centre all the actions on innovation. It is really about making a qualitative leap, developing a habit of innovation among our companies. And there the Galician Union had two alternatives: either to follow and ignore the tools that the European Union was putting at our disposal – as the Bipartisan Government had done clearly – or to bet firmly on making the most of the excellent opportunity it offered us and to give us the Technology Fund to boost innovation initiatives. The choice was simple, and the result right now is unbeatable. We managed to exhaust and therefore execute 100 percent of Galician funds, and also logically overcome those two-party government execution ratios, which had only executed 5% of the resources we had allocated. In particular, the participation of the Galician Union focused on the drive of innovation through job creation and also through the logical use of the Technology Fund, and there were several initiatives. Firstly, innovative public procurement, in which Galicia is pioneering, is referring at the national and international level, with the projects being developed, A-Time project, Láser Pet project and also the already known Innova Health and Hospital 2050; other unique actions, such as the Tactical Innopharma program, and also the creation, ladies and gentlemen, of the Rozas Airport Research Centre, so that projects can be developed in Galicia in the field of unmanned aircraft, a unique centre which is the germ of one industrial technology that will allow to link up to 2020 another 45 million euros and, therefore, that Galicia has an industrial opportunity and innovation in aeronautical matter. In short, Your Honor, we drive the execution of the technological funds and we allow Galicia, our companies and our technological centres, to have the opportunity to take that qualitative leap and work towards a culture of innovation that allows the greater competitiveness of our productive fabric. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u462	Mr. Blanco Paradelo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u463	Thank you, Madam President. Counselor, thank you for the detailed information you just offered us. I think it's an information that demonstrates several things. On the one hand, efficiency and agility in the search and drive of quality innovative projects, since, as you said, they managed to exhaust and execute 100 percent of all funds and mobilize 400 million euros over the four years from 2010 to 2013, with which they could support around 200 projects. It also demonstrates the degree of understanding in public-private collaboration, a partnership needed more than ever to advance economic growth and job creation, something that some now confuse, confuse collaboration with the private world with privatization. It also shows that it's not enough to have budgets, it's not enough to manage them. As you said, the two-party government only executed 5% of the resources we had allocated, while this government managed to make Galicia the first community in the number of projects awarded in 2013 in the Intérconecta Program. It also demonstrates the economic solvency of the Galician Union, since the Technology Fund is mobilized and allocated to proposals submitted on the basis of the availability of funds from the autonomous community. And it also shows that, despite the difficulties in these years of crisis, the Government of Greece has approved a strategy of intelligent specialization, the RIS3, it has affixed itself to innovation, technological centres, research, ICT use, technological modernization, industry 4.0 – questions that some seem to be disturbing – or to new and future projects as it has referred to, the creation of the Aeroborne Research Centre in Rozas, which today, this morning, so many criticisms have been received; or other projects in the field and in the health field. We think they're working on the right line, so we hope they're still working around. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u464	Thank you very much, Mr. Blanco. Replica from the Economic and Industry Councillor, Mr. Conde.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u465	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Blanco, indeed, this government has made a very important effort to implement this Technology Fund and, therefore, to enable European funds to be mobilised in such important areas as wind energy, such as the new techniques of diagnostic radiopharmaceuticals, such as the Innova Health and Hospital 2050 program, I say, concerning national and international, or areas such as the early discovery of drugs, the generation and value of ICT knowledge created in Galicia and also that bet by the aeronautic sector. But the most important thing we are developing with this innovation policy, and for which we resort to this Technology Fund, is actually to have turned Galicia into a reference to the application of very clear principles from the point of view of the use of innovation funds, such as innovative public procurement and public-private cooperation, which allows efforts from the administration to be accompanied by increased investment in innovation by the private sector. That's the way; therefore, the effectiveness, execution and linkage of these funds to vertebrate projects and projects that allow the consolidation of our economy. Unfortunately the Bipartite has confused collaboration with privatization, unfortunately; it does it permanently, because it is used to wasting public funds and is also used to not collaborating, not looking for synergies. And they've left out samples of this in their mismanagement of the Technology Fund. Innovation-oriented public-private collaboration should enhance, and so suggest the European Commission's own experts, who invite us to establish – and I read textually – initiatives in strategic and competitive areas leading companies. And that's what we're doing, ladies and gentlemen, with industrial technology in Rozas, we're faced with an opportunity for Galicia to become a reference for the civilian use of unmanned aircraft. The opposition knows perfectly well that the use of European funds can only have a civil use, and therefore we will be there, in order to promote land management vertebrate projects and to allow Galicia, supported by industrial partners' investment, to turn the German aeronautical sector into a referent, into a point of launching a new strategic sector. It's a pity, of course, that myopia of some political groups, who just want to destabilize a project that will significantly boost Galicia's industrial capabilities. And again we face a good bet for modernity and employment or simply a partisan ideology. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u466	Thank you very much, Counselor. Question from Mr. Cosme Eladio Pombo Rodríguez, G.P. of the Nationalist Block Galego, on the educational policy foreseen by the Council of Culture, Education and Universitary ordination for the course 2015-2016
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u467	You have the word, Mr. Pombo, to ask your question.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u468	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, Counselor. We already have a new school course, with a public school in Galicia that continues with the cuts continued since 2009, it was Mr. Feijóo's. I know, Counselor, that you consider the teaching staff to be sufficient, that public education, in your opinion, works well, and that Galicia even has the best state teacher/student ratio. But the reality of the beginning of the course is, Counselor, another very different. Two weeks ago, the Galician Public Education Defense Platform publicly denounced the continuing educational cuts in public education. Several ANPAs from public centers also demanded – like the Pino ICC case – that classes be opened that exceed the 25 students per class. Therefore, more teachers to better care for this student. Even Vite's CEIP claimed sufficient teachers to meet students with specific educational needs – remember that it is a reference center for students with functional diversity. So the course doesn't start well, because the breakdown of the Pino's CPI is necessary, but there are more than a hundred classes throughout Galicia that also need to unfold. The reason for our question, Counselor, is that you start a new course with old problems. We have LOMCE again in first and third of ESO and first of LAC, a LOMCE law which aims to impose the political idea of PP in a hurry, run down and against the opinion of the educational community; a new LOMCE on account of converting teaching into a business and seriously deteriorating public education. He continues, Counsellor, the galloping retreat of teaching in English, nor did he withdraw the Decree of Plurilingualism or announced new measures for our language despite signing a manifesto with the Bureau for Linguistic Standardization. It continues around 40% of the student having to buy textbooks and teaching material, thousands of families who have to pay for a dining service that they had previously free, a new school course with more than 3,000 unattended requests for children in public education, more cuts in teachers, the abolition of 48 school units and 13 schools in public education while increasing units in private. The continuing cut of teachers, Counsellor, the continued reduction of teachers, represents a loss of quality in public education. While the Council continues to subsidise private education that segregates the student on the basis of gender.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u469	Thank you very much, Mr. Pombo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u470	Counsellor, what criteria have you followed to cut down the professor of public education?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u471	The councillor for Culture, Education and Universitary Order, Mr. Román Rodríguez, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u472	Thank you very much, President. Mr. Cosme, well, today we've talked a lot about education, we've talked a lot, and I'm very happy to talk a lot about education in Parliament; we had a PNL, an interpellation and now a question. Obviously the ideas and visions we have and you have are quite difficult. [[Murmurs.]] But I'm going to tell you one thing: I, at least, in my position as a counselor, as a German and also as a father, am proud of our educational system, absolutely proud of our educational system. That doesn't mean that there's no need to improve, of course it needs to be improved. But now, what can't be done is absolutely maximalistic approaches and to question something so important for Galicia – and it's not from a government or another – it's from all the Greeks – as is the public education system. Look, we have over 30,000 teachers, we have over 1,000 educational centers, we have 400,000 non-university students. And we have – and it enters into normality – some centers where there are timely claims or claims that somehow the Administration has to meet. And in this course the course began with a remarkable normality, it was given an answer to those specific questions that the inspection or educational guidance services thought it was necessary. And in those others where the technical reports didn't match the claims, obviously we're guided by the technical information. And I'll tell you a question. You talk as a teacher, and you practically talk to us as if there was arbitraryness, a political attitude, about setting up or removing teachers, doubling or grouping. There's no. There's a strict compliance with legality, at all times they're fulfilling the ratios precisely set by a socialist law, by the LOE. Galicia – you said it – has a privilege. That privilege is that it has the best education/teacher ratio in the state; I think it's a strong point in the education system. And he has a professor – who I think has to break a spear in his favor – tremendously motivated by improving the education system, and which day by day is being trained. Without going further, in the training activities of the professor of the past course we're talking about 18,700 teachers who are being trained day by day to work better and to give better service to their students. I think we have to make a recognition of the teacher, there's no arbitrariness in setting up or removing a teacher from a center, they're meeting the educational ratios set by law, they're fulfilling the educational catalogue. And among all – teachers, administrations, families, ANPA – we're improving our system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u473	Thank you very much. Mr. Pombo's reply. Please give a voice to Mr. Pombo's chair.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u474	Counselor, I don't know what country you're talking about. There are only over 100 school units in the province of Coruña above that ratio that marks the law and that you're not complying with. There are over 200 centers without the necessary faculty. And rural Welsh is watching the real, I don't know if they're called pupils' farms, where there are several levels of different ages of students and they're calmly dispatching with a teacher who isn't what these students need, even though they live in the countryside of our country. They're students and they're not numbers. Many of the teachers are to meet the specific educational needs of those students who need more support than normal students.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u475	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u476	And therefore we are faced with a serious situation. You, Mr. Counselor, know of this much more than I do, for that you are the Counsellor of the Council of Galicia. And you know there are a number of centers that are claiming to meet the diversity of our country's students. If we cut students, if during Mr. Feijóo's time 4,000 professors were retired and only squares were offered for 1,000, the quality of the Greek education system is being cut. I know the system works thanks to the efforts of our country's professor, but the Council should have another consideration and meet the demands of public institutions that demand the teacher needed and sufficient to attend quality public education. Because we're talking about kids and not numbers.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u477	Thank you very much, Mr. Pombo. Replica from the Councillor for Culture, Education and Universitary ordination, Don Román Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u478	All right, Mr. Pombo, that country you say is Galicia, and I think I know it relatively well; I don't say better than you or anyone else, but I think I know it more or less well and I know the educational centers very well. And I know the educational statistics, and I repeat them, only objective data. You probably, like me, have a veil that clouds our perception, sure – and it's logical –. Now, the data is objective. And objective data is what they are. [[Murmurs.]] Galicia has the best teacher/student ratio, and that's beyond doubt, Mr. Pombo. And, look, the ratios fixed by the LOE are paid, they're paid. And they're evaluated by inspection reports and orientation reports. And you, Mr. Pombo, know as I do the demographic reality of inside Galicia, because we're both inside. And he knows that demographic dynamics are what they are, and demographic dynamics have led us to a situation where we are obviously always thinking about solutions. In spaces there is a young population, in other places there is an aged population; in spaces there are groupings because there is not enough children to have a broad educational level, because there are few children, and in other places we have to do enlargement. [[Murmurs.]] This council is expanding centers in metropolitan areas, cities, villages, let's say, more people, and in rural areas, there's nothing else left. And I know you didn't say it in a bad way, but I think you call them -- literally said it -- "student gangs" is not the right word to refer to rural centers where groupings are done; and where teachers in CRA, in the units, make a remarkable effort to give quality education to these students, because of demographic reasons. You mentioned centers. In the Mesoon of Wind – where there is a claim – there is a classroom with 17 students. You will understand that it is necessary to group in order to have an educational system that works; otherwise, it would be impermissible from any point of view. And you're also talking about the teacher and you're putting on some numbers. I don't know if you're happy. He says there are 4,000 teachers less... retired, well. [[Mr. Pombo Rodríguez: Retired.]] For these teachers were mostly covered with interns. Why were they covered with guts? Because there was a Socialist Party legislation – as we said before – that prevented the convening of squares, right? [[Murmurs.]] 10% replacement. The People's Party last year was already able to put 50 percent, and we could already call 400 squares. And this year we have the possibility of reaching the number we need, because in this case the People's Party at the state level is proposing the possibility of reaching a hundred percent of the squares that retire. With which the current situation, to a certain extent, I think it has been greatly improved with regard to what there was, inherited in this case from a government proposal of what you are your partner in many places. And, said this, it must also be borne in mind that, in addition to these squares, there is a remarkable increase in teacher training. And I think we should all be proud, very proud of our teachers...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u479	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u480	...because the level of education...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u481	Thank you very much, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u482	...from our education, our teachers do it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-09-30-DSPG123.u483	Well, the order of the day is running out. Thank you very much and good night.
