ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-07-23-DSPGDP008.u1	The session is open. I ask Mrs. Soneira Tajes to proceed with a quorum check.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-07-23-DSPGDP008.u2	José Manuel Balsairo Orol: Yes. Jose Manuel Beiras Torrado: Yes. Maria Concepción Burgo López: Yes. Jaime Castineira Broz (substituted by Ma Carmen Pardo López). Yolanda Díaz Pérez: Yes. Ma Carmen Gallego Calvar: Yes. Juan Carlos González Santín: Yes. Javier Jorge Guerra Fernández (substituted by Santiago Freire Abeijón). Carmen Iglesias Sueiro (substituted by Ma Consuelo Martínez García). Francisco Jesus Jorquera Caselas: Yes. José Luis Méndez Romeo: Yes. Alberto Núñez Feijóo (substituted by Ma Isabel García Pacín). Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo (substituted by Teresca Paz Franco). Paula Prado del Río: Yes. Pedro Puy Fraga: Yes. Marta Rodríguez Arias (substituted by Agustín Baamonde Díaz). Cristina Isabel Romero Fernández: Yes. Alfonso Rueda Valenzuela (substituted by Alejandro Gómez Alonso). Miguel Ángelado Filgueira: Yes. And we are present at the Bureau. There's quorum, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-07-23-DSPGDP008.u3	Thank you very much, Mrs. Soneira. Request for a summons, on the initiative of the GGs. PP. of the Nationalist Block Galego and Mixto, an extraordinary whole for the urgent appearance of the president of Galician Union in order to explain the management of the Galician Union to the dramatic situation of the dairy sector Request for a summons, on the initiative of the G.P. of the Galician Socialists, of an extraordinary full order on the agenda are the urgent requests of the president of the Galician Council requested in the docs. #s. 38409, 38412, 38413 and 38414 Request for a summons, on the initiative of the GGs. PP. of the Alternative Galician Left and the Galego Nationalist Block, an extraordinary whole for the creation of a research commission on the railway accident in Angrois
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-07-23-DSPGDP008.u4	So we start with the development of the agenda, which, as you know, is a unique point of call for an extraordinary whole. Since there are three requests for extraordinary calls and, as it has therefore been communicated to the various spokesmen, we will hold three debates with the ordination which I have already commented on and we will vote at the end of the debate on the three requests in a logical, separate way. So we'd start with the first of the requests: Request for a summons, on the initiative of the GGs. PP. of the Nationalist Block Galego and Mixto, an extraordinary whole for the urgent appearance of the president of Galician Union in order to explain the management of the Galician Union to the dramatic situation of the dairy sector
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-07-23-DSPGDP008.u5	You have the floor, first of all, for the Mixed Group, Mrs Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-07-23-DSPGDP008.u6	Thank you, President. Good morning to all and to all. The request of this extraordinary whole with the presence of the president to explain the management of the Union to the dramatic situation in the dairy sector is not the first time. We are facing a tremendous crisis in the dairy sector, a strategic sector for our country where the price of milk is reaching levels of misery that do not allow to keep farms open, currently paying 0.20 and even 0.16 cents per litre of milk; that is, much less than a litre of water, for example. It's really much less than you're paying in other communities that have dairy production, like Asturias or Cantabria. Even the pressure from industry is reaching the limit that they do not collect the milk from some farms, for example, has already done Leite Río, thus preventing open holdings. It seems essential that the Union, and in particular the President of the Union, explain what the actions are going on, because the advisor himself says that the situation is not so serious and that the situation is being exaggerated. So, I understand you're saying that the gloves and the gutters lie when they tell their reality, which I think is very serious. The other day there was a mass demonstration of livestock and livestock from all over the country complaining about this exploitation and the extreme situation in which they are being put. In addition, we believe that Junta is despising a very important possibility of activating the rural environment, of betting on our livestock farms, of taking advantage of creating a gainful industry that brings out the milk product by creating added value and also creating a niche of employment that is fundamental to returning the rural population, settling the rural population and ending with the aging of our population and the desertification of our rural environment. So – I give the word to BNG – we believe this appearance is essential. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-07-23-DSPGDP008.u7	Thank you very much, Mrs. Martínez. You have the word Mrs. Peace.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-07-23-DSPGDP008.u8	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning to all of you. I shall try briefly, as this parliamentary group has, to justify why the presence of the President of the Galician Union is essential to realize what the action of his government in relation to the dairy sector is going to be. Firstly, it is essential because the dairy sector is in a limited situation where it is no longer only a problem of prices and losses on farms but what is at stake, which is in danger, is the survival of the dairy sector itself. It is essential, moreover, that this appearance be of the President of the Galician Union, because the Counsellor for the Rural Environment, unfortunately, is absolutely invalidated to address the problem of the milk sector; she is invalidated by her irresponsibility, even in the declarations she makes permanently, minimizing the problem of a sector that is dying, but she is also disabled because she is absolutely delegitimized as an interlocutor by a very important sector, which has much to say in the solution of the milk sector's problem, as is industry. An example of this delegitimation was a meeting convened by the councillor himself on the 11th day when the whole industry, practically unanimously, gave him a plant and ostentatically said he had nothing to negotiate with this lady. It's funny that you do this with the Government of Galician Union at the same time that when Mrs. Techerinos calls you in the Ministry, and you have no problem in addressing those talks. This shows that precisely the policy of the Galician Union in recent years of distancing itself from the problem of the milk sector, of allowing Madrid to dictate the whole policy in relation to this sector, has caused precisely this weakness of the Union because it has abandoned the defense of the milk sector. And thirdly, we believe that it is essential for the President of the Galician Union to appear because we are not only facing a sectoral problem, we are facing a real national problem for Galicia. So much so that we talk about population in rural areas, so much so that we talk about demographics, and it doesn't seem that this government has just become aware that the disappearance of the dairy sector, that the disappearance of farms, will inevitably lead to the disappearance not only of economic life but even of human life in many parts of our territory. The other day, at the demonstration on the 17th, which Mrs. Martínez was referring to, many thugs said that milk was Galician oil, and the only thing that seems to fail to realize this is the president of Galician Union. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not that we are faced with a problem where many of the greedy people pay less than 20 cents for their milk, we are faced with a problem where many of the greedy people are not paid directly. The industries do him the favor of picking up milk so they don't have to throw it away and therefore they still face environmental sanctions for throwing milk and instead they just tell them that they don't know when they're going to pay them or how they're going to pay them. There are many farms, and not precisely small farms – of which we have often heard the People's Party that are not viable and which are therefore doomed to disappear – but 200 farms and more cows, which are in grave danger of disappearing in this country. There are more than 3,000 dairy farms currently at serious risk of disappearance, with which it leads to the dairy sector. We are not faced with a market problem, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, because if we hadn't explained why, as there is no reduction in milk consumption in the Spanish State, which is still in the 9 million, when our global production does not cover more than 70% and we continue to import milk from other countries, if this happens. It would also not be possible to explain solely in market terms why Andalusia – and listen carefully to what communities I'm going to talk about – Extremadura and Castela-La Mancha are dramatically increasing their milk production at the same time that Galicia does not allow us to produce; communities that have neither material nor territorial attitudes to milk production and where in addition to being spectacularly increasing their production they pay far more than they pay to the German owners. I don't know if the president of the Galician Union doesn't worry that we might be facing a strategy by the industry of locating milk production, centralizing milk production, in places closest to marketing, and where Galicia simply leaves us marginal production, what we could say would be that Galicia ends up being the low cost of milk production in the Spanish state. For all these reasons, we believe that it is absolutely essential that the President of the Galician Union, not only to account for the situation in the dairy sector, that we know it perfectly because we speak to the people affected, but above all to tell us this Parliament and to tell those thousands of people who are with their life pending a thread, who do not pay their debts, who do not carry out their exploitation further and therefore their vital projects, what they have planned to do to the Galician Union to save not only their situations but above all to save a sector that is strategic for this country; what they have planned to do to the President of the Galician Union to force the industries and distribution to which the winners can also participate in the milk chain, so that the price is set below and not as it is currently being, to ensure a minimum price and to ensure the collection. It's very picturesque, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, that they always stick in our faces here, when we talk about protecting the dairy sector, competition rules and international legislation. As I know, it's forbidden to sell under the cost of any sector, and yet here all of us see how there's milk at 40, at 37 or 36 cents the liter in the linears of supermarkets and no one seems to care about it. We're all seeing it as if they're forcing livestock to sell too much under production prices and nobody seems to care. That is why – and I finish, ladies and gentlemen – we believe – and we hope that the People's Party will understand it as well – that those 9,200 people who continue to be holders of exploitation, but also those thousands whose economic activity is also directly or indirectly dependent on the dairy sector, and the whole of the country, who sees it as a strategic sector for our future, deserve the People's Party to accept that the President of the Galician Union has to come here to design a strategy to save the dairy sector. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-07-23-DSPGDP008.u9	Thank you very much, Mrs. Paz. Round of non-proportional groups. You have the floor, by the Gaga de Left Alternative Group, Mr. Beiras Torrado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-07-23-DSPGDP008.u10	I will say, to begin with, that I subscribe absolutely to all the statement and argument made by both Mrs Martínez and Mrs Teresca Paz, the latter in the name of the Nationalist Block Galego and therefore will not reiterate it, because, in addition, we have been repeating arguments that have never been refuted for years, but that are like those arguments ad nauseam – which are said in logic – but which certainly result in nausea abounds to the group that governs, of course. The problem, the difference, is that I don't expect the People's Group, at least the leaders of the people, and those who occupy the Government of Galicia, to understand nothing, because they already understand it; it's not that they don't understand it, the problem is that they're on the other side of the trench and serve interests that are antithetic to the interests of the Greek peasantry, of Galicia. So it's not that they don't understand it, they understand it perfectly, so they do what they do. And it's all part of something that I've already, at least, been expressed for a number of years: a strategy of extermination of the peasantry. And why? It is simply because, firstly, it collides with the interests of the State's reasons, the State's strategy, both in the initial European Common Market and then in the accession to that Common Market and the European Community and then into the European Union. And secondly, because I'm a lower race, I've always been like that. I mean, the German peasantry – the Germans as a whole – has always been considered, that of "the last one." All this still lasts in the subconscious of a certain carpetovetonic cave, an integrityist, and comes out to shine every time it scratches a little in the skin or coconut, but, above all, in the ideology processed by the leaders of the People's Party. I'm a lower caste, doomed to disappear, because I'm a historical waste. I was very young when it was already written that "the Galician peasants have no business spirit." Pocket shirt, isn't it? Because none other than Rabago Day, at the end of the 19th – and he was not suspected of Marxism-Leninism, there was no Leninism yet – he had perfectly explained that the structuring of pre-capitalist Greek agricultural holdings was as rational as possible for his... Of course, it turns out that the business spirit had it, that, quite well of subsidies, but they sunk the economy of this country, starting with the bankers, that is. There is a policy of extermination, and, before that, only constant mobilization and leap forward in what just happened on May 24 can lead to this actually changing. A round political mutation is necessary. Now, here, in this House, we're not going to get anything because they're going to stick. I just want to mention the minutes I have left -- I don't know how many -- of an article published in this country's paper, nothing less than March 4, 1983, and I'm going to read just a few pieces of that article. He made the comment of a book by Luis Moure Marine – which is considered excellent – entitled The Human Inequity: "It has been said that we are before one of the most important books that have been written in Spain in recent years. It constitutes irrefutable proof of the falsehood of the claim that all men are equal, and hence the rules, which are the consequence of them. Already in remote times – sixth century B.C. – it was affirmed as indisputable truth that strain determines man both in physical and psychic, and these knowledge has been confirmed later by science. Since Mendel formulated his famous laws, no one has already questioned that man is essentially unequal, not only from the moment of his birth but from the very moment of fertilization." Then there's an explanation of biology, of genetics: "Man is born predestined for what he must be. The natural inequality of man is written in the genetic code, etc., etc." It is well known that the laws of Mendel, which, objectively, have their value –logo were, of course, exceeded – were a given ideological version and were the basis of the Nazi ideology which led to the extermination camps and to the definition of what were the "untermenchens", "subhumans" and therefore had to end them. That's what's being practiced in the background with the Greek peasantry. They're unterminable, they're subhuman, and therefore they have to be destroyed, if not physically, at least by destroying their material livelihoods. And in that same article it says: "That's why all models, from radical communism to attenuated socialism...," – be careful, don't deal with these gentlemen, because you know that...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-07-23-DSPGDP008.u11	Finish, please, Mr. Beers.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-07-23-DSPGDP008.u12	...in Germany, before the Third Reich – "who preach the equality of wealth and establish for it rules whose ultimate philosophy is that of the imposition of equality, are radically contrary to the very essence of man". Do you know who signed this article, published in El Faro de Vigo on March 4, 1973? Mariano Rajoy Brey, Member of the People's Alliance in the Galician Parliament. So what are you going to tell me? How do you intend to convince the ladies and gentlemen who depend on the current President of the Spanish Government, who wrote these things and never dissipated himself, if it obviously preaches that inequality is already genetically a characteristic that is deterministic? That was Sade's philosophical materialism, at least...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-07-23-DSPGDP008.u13	Thank you very much, Mr. Beers.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-07-23-DSPGDP008.u14	...it was neither scientific nor dialectical materialism, philosophical materialism. What spark can you expect from people like that? That, of course, they go on because they care about a subhuman slave, who are the Greek peasants. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-07-23-DSPGDP008.u15	Socialist Parliamentary Group. You have the floor to Mrs Gallego Calvar.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-07-23-DSPGDP008.u16	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. The Socialist Parliamentary Group will support the request of the President of the Union to explain the future strategy on the milk sector, since also in this sitting and then my colleague spokesperson will explain the request we make from the Socialist Group in the same sense. We understand that the price of milk, which is currently at 20 cents of euro and less – in the cases where it is paid, because in others, not even if it is paid – is suffering the worst crisis since the last thirty years. And the truth is that this crisis has been announced, because the opposition parliamentary groups, the producer sector itself, have been repeatedly asking for attention from the German Government over the past six years. Mr Feijóo's government policy on the dairy sector can be summed up in two words: absence and subordination. Absence from addressing the problems faced by the dairy sector and subordination to the decisions taken by the Central Government, which, like yesterday's meetings in the Ministry, are absolutely ridiculous and insufficient. To aim to solve this crisis in the dairy sector with a million and a half euros goes far beyond the ridiculous, when we have, for example, that in France, which are paying the milk at 30 cents of euro, will be made available to the sector 600 million euros at the beginning. The truth is that the contrast clearly shows what is the political position of one and another government in relation to a sector that is fundamental for Galicia, since, however, we remain leaders in production, although, of course, not leaders in political vanguard, as we ought to be. More than half of Spanish production continues to reside in Galicia – probably for a short time. We understand that in the last six years, the Government of Greece has been away from the solutions that the dairy sector demands, that this is jeopardizing the dairy sector and that, in addition to putting the dairy sector at risk, it is putting an important part of rural development at risk, since if there are no sectors in rural areas that can encourage people to continue living in rural areas, it is worsening the problem that Galicia has of desertification of the rural environment, of the abandonment of the rural population. And we understand, in addition, that the behaviour of the Government of Greece, in addition to being at all insufficient light, sometimes rake in the mouth, because hearing the Middle Rural Counsellor say in the media, there are few dates that would meet with the consumer organizations of Galicia to see whether the consumption of milk was valued and, therefore, the price increased, after these six years of action, without even having done that gesture at the beginning of the legislation, without having made an effort to negotiate approved contracts and without having made an effort to diversify the economic activity of the dairy sector in the rural environment, the truth is that it is desperate for the producer sector; and so they are demonstrating it in the streets of Galicia one day after another – yes, also with little success – before the Government of Galicia, which is still absent, both the advisor and the president. So we are going to support this request for the President's appearance because our group also presents it and because we understand that this is an urgent problem. And we believe that urgent measures must be designed to address this urgent crisis, but we must also design a strategy for the future, bearing in mind that since 1 April the quota system has disappeared, which was something we can see to come, and this government has done nothing to prevent this new situation. Nothing else and thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-07-23-DSPGDP008.u17	Thank you, Mrs Gallego. People's Parliamentary Group. You have the floor to Mrs. Garcia Pacín.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-07-23-DSPGDP008.u18	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, ladies. The diagnosis of the current situation in the dairy sector in this 2015-2016 campaign – the first without quotas – can be described as complicated, difficult and uncertain for the future, but we do not agree with the terms used by the opposition. We are not faced with a dramatic situation or a limit, we are in a transition scenario where distribution, industry, and especially the producer sector, are obliged to understand themselves, to commit themselves to agreements that ensure the stability of contractual relations and change the volatility of prices in origin for their own consolidation and future viability. These statements are supported by the various meetings, negotiations, mobilizations and media demands of the sector's agents, where the administrations, ladies and gentlemen, are the protagonists. And within the competences recognized by the new laws - new and recent laws - both the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of the Rural Environment, the deputies, the councils, they act, lordships, with speed and rigour within their responsibilities. We have examples of them every day in the media headlines, where there are meetings with Inlac at the national level, where there are meetings of the Council of the Rural Environment and the Counsellor with the representatives of the producers, where there are mobilizations involving local entities and leaders, and where there are social initiatives such as motions and others in the various municipalities. Ladies and gentlemen, in a comparison, the dairy market, over the past few years, has been characterized by price crises in origin: the 2008-2009 crisis – we remember – – that was not the People's Party's Government responsible for severe falls –; the 2012 crisis. Ladies and gentlemen, but no one is up to the present day of the 2013-2014 campaigns, when prices and profit margins exist. Many of the measures taken by administrations are regulations to protect production, to vertebrate the chain from European regulations, from legislation at national level, from actual decrees, autonomous decrees, to enable the application of the milk package, with its corresponding plans for improvements in sanctions, inspections, which, ladies and gentlemen, do not seem to be sufficient to achieve the objectives of stability, transparency and security that are demanded from the opposition. But we follow these fruitful policy actions, in which all administrations and those responsible for these matters are still being feared, other important actions, ladies and gentlemen. Because I was now speaking to the spokeswoman who preceded me in the use of the word help in the French state of 600 million euros. Ladies and gentlemen, in the campaign we have just completed, there have been direct aid to the sector for almost 95 million euros; for the incorporation of youth, ladies and gentlemen, more than 5 million euros. Ladies and gentlemen, you were talking about vital projects. There are vital projects, Mrs Peace, where our youth bets to invest in rural areas and, above all, on business dairy farms, Mr Beiras. We also recall specific measures that have been authorised since the Ministry and which have come to be the continuity of specific measures which the Rural Council has already adopted over the past few years, such as the support of the circular, loans under advantageous conditions; actions and actions where Mr Feijóo's Counsellor and Government demonstrate day by day who is to be held responsible. You teiman in your destructive criticism, always try to manipulate, forgery the data, because they refer to payments per kilograms of 19 and 20 cents of milk. Ladies and gentlemen, when you talk about relocation, you say that in Galicia there is no more. For that, really, is one of the problems, ladies and gentlemen, that production is not suited to demand, that our farms are producing above the quotas allocated in previous campaigns. That's the problem, that milk is what you're paying at these prices, but it doesn't exist today, nor does it lack of collection, Mrs. Peace... the truth is that you don't walk the countryside, it's not near the farms. [[Mrs. Paz Franco utters words that are not perceived.]] You try to keep manipulating and alarming the sector, encouraging the uncertainty of the sector, and weak favors are doing it. But, ladies and gentlemen, the Parliamentary Group and the Government are concerned about the dairy sector, and I have expressed their presence in all the plenary sessions and committees. Because you say very cheerfully that you are absent, because I think everything is the opposite.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-07-23-DSPGDP008.u19	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-07-23-DSPGDP008.u20	Indeed, the initiative that you propose is to refuse because in the next full announcement to debate the budget expenditure ceiling is registered in this House the presence of the Middle Rural Counsellor to talk about the dairy sector, as is happening in all sessions and in all committees, two months each. Ladies and gentlemen, the only irresponsible here is the opposition, not the current government...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-07-23-DSPGDP008.u21	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-07-23-DSPGDP008.u22	...not the political leaders of the group I belong to. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-07-23-DSPGDP008.u23	Thank you very much. Replication turn of proponent groups. You have the floor for the Mixed Group, Mrs. Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-07-23-DSPGDP008.u24	Thank you, President, very briefly. Of course, listening to the People's Party is alarming, a party that doesn't matter to Galician people, which matters nothing to the Greeks and the Greeks, and what matters to them is covering up their own corruption and their own internal problems; it's the only thing they care about. It's of incredible value to say here that the problem is overproduction, to say here that since the opposition, protests in the dairy sector are encouraged. But what kind of world do you live in? You did never step on the countryside, and if the floor is to be heard. They can't listen, and since you and the advisor don't hear, they don't know and they don't want to know what's going on in the country, because that's what they're interested in. Because you only defend the interests of the distribution industry, not the interests of the landowners and the landowners. They don't even defend this country, because it's the first time they've done it; they've never done it and we don't expect them to do it now. But make it clear that whoever is loading the Welsh dairy sector is the People's Party, and consciously you are turning to closure the milk production of our country. And you're also in your policy condemning the rural environment to desertification, that's what you're doing with your policy. And, of course, it's not worth the appearance of a counselor who is totally disqualified and who is no longer worth talking to the producer sector or, of course, to provide information to this Parliament, because he never gave it to her. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-07-23-DSPGDP008.u25	Thank you very much. You have the word of Mrs. Peace.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-07-23-DSPGDP008.u26	Thank you, Madam President. I, if the President will allow me, will make an amendment to the initiative that this parliamentary group has presented, to see if the People's Party accepts it, which is to ask the urgent presence of the President of the Galician Council to come and tell us about the good that has been done to the dairy sector in 2013 and 2014. Because after Mrs. Spokesman's intervention, it seems that the important thing here is not to talk about what's happening now, but about what was supposed to happen in the years 2013 and 2014. Look, I'm amazed at the demonstrations that Mrs. García Pacín has made to say – if you dare say, you are also a dairy country – that the situation of the gangsters is neither dramatic nor in a limited situation, that we are... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-07-23-DSPGDP008.u27	Quiet, please. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Silence, please, that you have the word to Mrs. Peace. Go on, Mrs. Peace.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-07-23-DSPGDP008.u28	...that the only thing we're...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-07-23-DSPGDP008.u29	Mr. Beers, you don't have the floor. Mrs. Peace has the floor. Do the favor. Mrs. Peace, continue. [[Mr. Beiras Torrado pronounces words that are not perceived.]] But she's quiet now. Go on, Mrs. Peace.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-07-23-DSPGDP008.u30	Thank you, Madam President. Here's all we're doing is in a transition period, it's true, we're in a transition period towards the death of the Greek dairy sector. And of course, we are so irresponsible, those of the opposition, that we alert this situation. We must be as irresponsible as the French Government, which yesterday approved an extraordinary package in relation to the dairy sector, not only 600 million euros, but also because you always come here with the help of the CAP. But, look, the $95 million spent on the dairy sector last year wasn't thanks to this government. I'm sorry to tell you, but the CAP's help is determined... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-07-23-DSPGDP008.u31	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-07-23-DSPGDP008.u32	...for each operating period by the budgets of the European Union. It just seems like they want to put their fingers in our eyes permanently, and look, I, at least, have glasses, I've got eyes protected for now. And look, the French Government, which is so irresponsible and its sector is so bad that they're charging a weighted average of 30 cents per litre, 4 cents more or 5 cents than they're charging here, too, considers the situation to be limited. And that's why, in addition to 600 million euros, he's taken measures to modify the milk package, because they still consider that contractual policy is insufficient, and that's what in France is much more advanced than here. And they took measures to raise milk prices, and they took measures to disburse farms, and nothing to see the debt of French holdings with the ones here, which had to spend more than 200 million euros on having the right to produce, to have quota, which is now a wet paper which is useless at all. But, above all, ladies and gentlemen...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-07-23-DSPGDP008.u33	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-07-23-DSPGDP008.u34	...and finished, Madam President – it is so irresponsible of the French Government itself that Mr. Valls and Mr. Hollande themselves took the distribution through their ears and put them in the water so they would not use milk and food as an element of claim. What happens is that, of course, here in the Spanish state, we certainly have a problem with the People's Party, which is that they can't catch Mr. Roig by the ears because he's got them taken from you by box B. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-07-23-DSPGDP008.u35	Thank you very much. We continue with the second of the calls for an extraordinary plenary, this time by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia. Request for a summons, on the initiative of the G.P. of the Galician Socialists, of an extraordinary full order on the agenda are the urgent requests of the president of the Galician Council requested in the docs. #s. 38409, 38412, 38413 and 38414
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-07-23-DSPGDP008.u36	You have the word Mr. Méndez Romeo for... Mr. Méndez Romeo, are you the one who speaks?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-07-23-DSPGDP008.u37	Yes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-07-23-DSPGDP008.u38	Mr. Méndez Romeo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-07-23-DSPGDP008.u39	When Mr. President of the Board announced a few days ago that he was planning to exhaust the legislation, the normal relationship for anyone who would follow Galicia's daily event was that Junta would get to work. That is to say, it would abandon the passivity that has been prevailing in the Greek administration for a long time and would work, at least on the two basic fronts of a government: regulatory production or budgetary execution, both abandoned and replaced by a succession of press notes, interviews, statements, filtrations concerned; that is, sporadic forms of information. To such an extent that since long ago it has been inversely proportional to the activity of the Union with the stream of propaganda, the least activity, the greater abundance of propaganda. But yes, the president continues to laugh at ambiguous statements, deliberately feeding the speculations that eventually portray an unforgettable picture of a president who wants to flee as long as before his obligation and in time he is openly postulated, it is not well known that other responsibilities. Meanwhile, the German Government lacks, as we have just seen in this matter, and we will now comment on more, committed objectives and the willingness to solve the problems of Greek society. After six years of popular government, only a minority of German citizens, who correspond to the highest incomes or assets, may say that they have improved their situation with the crisis or without the crisis; for the rest of the population today the situation is much worse after the policies of the governments of Mr. Rajoy and Mr. Feijóo. Today we propose that by breaking the president's inveterated custom, he must come in full to realize, at least, four matters. We know that the fact that he would appear to deal with any matter in himself would be a new one, would be an unprecedented contribution from this president. We propose, first of all, that he appear to combat the escalating inequality. It denounces all the reports, the last of the Galician Economic and Social Council. Inequality, which has several dimensions, has a super-regional dimension, because during this government Galicia goes back to convergence with the European average. When you came to the Galician government you had as a per capita income 92% of European GDP, today you have nine points minus 83%; inequality that has a very worrying dimension within the country between the top income captors and the lowest income. EPA data, 777,000 employees in Greece: the first row, the first 10% of the employees in Greece have an average gross income of 410 euros per month; well below the minimum wage. They're nothing less than 70,000 people, 9% of the employees. And if we look at the second row, which affects 11%, the monthly gross salary is EUR 818. I mean, 1 out of every 5 workers right now in Galicia is in poverty, although he has a job, even if he has a salary. And you can already realize how far you can live with that level of wage income. Even if we get to the third row, that is, if we get to 30% of the Greek workers, they don't get to be rude mileurists. And besides, it's exactly the ones who get the least from the crisis. During these years, the highest income incomes decreased by 4%, the lowest incomes by 23%, the six times the most. And in addition, there are studies to date that identify and portray the robot of labour poverty, the poverty of those who are hired. We are no longer talking about those who are unemployed with perception and those who are unemployed without benefit or perception. Well, the poor workers, those who work and have these low incomes, they're people who work part-time, they're more discrimination than full-time; they're young women in proportion to 3-1 with boys; they're people with little seniority. Even today, if we're going to illustrate that it's the shortest-term contracts that have the highest turnover, that work in small businesses and that work in the service sector, that are all domestic employment workers, in the hospitality industry, in the trade or in the auxiliary services of companies. Consequences: exclusion, dualisation and precariousization not only wage, but even of the vital conditions of existence. And that's not quite clear – as we know in all the countries around us – with the rents of dependency, the rents of risk and the help of non-governmental organizations, which they do is perpetuating that situation from which it's increasingly difficult to escape. Well, we believe that in this matter, Junta today has done nothing to reverse that situation. What's more, the evidence is that it's not even part of your concerns, and that it affects this data as a side effect of the work reform that you've approved. We also call on the President's presence to address two issues relating to the rural environment. First, the dairy sector. The arguments were explained by Mrs. Gallego, and I have nothing more to add, though Mrs. Pacín's intervention provokes me alarm. Because, Mrs. Pacín, it's good that you rhetorically accuse the opposition of all evil. But, listen, do you think last week 15,000 yellow gangsters lost a day's work to come for a walk under Santiago's sun? Were you there listening to what was said? Were you witnesses that there were mayors of the People's Party there listening to what was said, supporting their presence? And did you realize that what was being questioned was the lack of a policy that had given an answer to what surpassed the individual or collective ability of the gainees? The need to put the distribution and put the industry, together with the producers, to find a solution to these problems with the support of the Government? You seem not to have been there, and, of course, that you have not been there has not heard the people who spoke there, and that you have not witnessed who were the people who were there. I would like to point out that in the matter of forest fires, for which we also requested the presence of the president, the Counsellor this year did not have time or considered it appropriate to present himself here to talk about the Pladiga. It's true that the Pladiga often seems that it doesn't have much to contribute, that these are general ideas that repeat year after year. But it's also true that in these days, even yesterday, if you're reporting that what you consider as the main data on the device against fire, what you call pumping brigades, that in practice there are lack of personnel and that you call brigades to sets of a worker or two workers, in many cases. That is what is being systematically denounced, or that today there are non-operational brigades in most of the Greek municipalities, or that prevention work is totally neglected, or that these municipal brigades are being used in many cases as mere civil protection teams of the municipalities, that is, paid by European prevention funds. But beyond this data, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Group, what is made manifest is that one more year the only real device against the fight against fires is what has existed since time immemorial in citizens' consciousness: climatelogy. If climateology helps, the fires will be controlled; if climateology is adverse, then the blame will be... well, just listen to the advisor to find out who's to blame. And, of course, you have refused over the years that have ruled that there is a true prevention policy throughout the year to prevent fires. Fourth issue on which we demand the presence of Mr. President-in-Office of the Council: to explain the abolition of public services in rural areas. Because the discourse of the land management guidelines or the demographic dynamization plan is fine, but what is happening in the face of official documents is that optional positions are closed in rural outpatient clinics and that – yesterday even out of the last relationship – schools across the entire Greek geography. There is no necessary provision of services that invite you... even today we are talking about closed infant schools, there is no need to provide services for citizens to consider that living in rural areas is viable, it is sustainable and that, in addition, allows a quality of life similar to other habitats. And one last question. Yesterday, in the face of all this, as a great discovery, three members of the Government announced that Galicia, which means the Italian countryside, is going to lose a million inhabitants no less, 40% in the next few years. I don't know if the advisors were surprised at these figures of truly catastrophic dimension or if they really consider it as something inevitable, like the plagues of Egypt. Because the truth is that there is neither a clear proposal nor a clear proposal yesterday to bring forward corrective measures for this demographic desertification. And in the second round we'll be back with more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-07-23-DSPGDP008.u40	Thank you very much, Mr. Méndez Romeo. Round of non-proportional groups. Joint Group, Mrs. Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-07-23-DSPGDP008.u41	Thank you, President. Well, give support to these requests for attendance. In principle, and in relation to the first request about inequality, we consider the increase in inequality to be a scandal in this country. This crisis has served to make the rich richer and to make the poorer poorer, and of course, it's serving to eliminate the half-Greek class. Wages – as the Socialist Party spokesman said – have reached a level of precariousness so that working full-time no longer ensures that one can meet the minimum vital needs. Minimum vital needs such as housing or adequate food for the whole family, including children, children and the sick. It's also an inequality based on a destructive work reform, a beastly, annihilating of the working class, which gave all its weapons to the employer, leaving the working class totally unprotected and in the hands of its employers. A labour reform that has served to reduce wages, to reduce schedules necessarily; more and more people work part-time, which means also partial wages, in a community that already has the lowest wages in the state. And also a job reform that led to almost free dismissal, because it was free and it's still. But it has also created tremendous unemployment in our country, unemployment which is also becoming structural. Some people, especially those older than 45, who are not being offered any future but being retired from poverty; people who have worked twenty-five years in their working lives, and who in the last stage of their working life are unemployed, without any kind of benefit, with underage children in charge and without a future job in sight. It also helped this inequality the dismantling and privatization of public services, both health care, where there are more and more payments, payments and payments in public health, less public health and more private health, as in the case of Vigo, but also less social services, more privatization of social services and educational privatization. And all this inequality also helps bring down direct taxes and indiscriminate rise of indirect taxes, especially VAT taxes on commodities. But also an inequality that has a great deal to do with what we were talking about in the dairy sector and which has a lot to do with the following shows, since there is also discrimination, an obvious inequality between the rural environment and the Greek periphery. Public services that have been dismantled not only in everything that has to do with counselling and support for jobs precisely in rural areas, but also the fight against fires – as we spoke earlier – also the heli-transported brigades and also the closures we have already dealt with in this Parliament on several occasions both of health centres and primary schools and secondary schools, as well as of the means of transport. For example, the province of Lugo is the province with less means of transport, more isolated than the rest of Galicia, which also hinders its economic take-off and industrial take-off. So instead of putting the means for rural people to recover, to create an industry that can be maintained precisely from agricultural production and milk, you just decided to close the interior of Galicia, to close the countryside. That's right, keeping Santiago's way through him, because it seems to be the only thing they've got in their head. And as far as social services are concerned, she draws attention to the counselor's refusal to talk to the fire-fighting workers. The workers and workers continue to complain not only about those cash cuts that put their lives at risk, but also about material. And he calls on the sky to be the Government of Greece precisely what matters as important as PPE's staffing to fire fighting personnel. That's an attack on the lives of the workers who try to save the mountain, who try to save the homes that are threatened by fire. We will therefore support requests for attendance.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-07-23-DSPGDP008.u42	Thank you very much, Mrs. Martínez. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Paz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-07-23-DSPGDP008.u43	Thank you, Madam President. The Galician Nationalist Bloc Parliamentary Group will also vote in favour of the appearances requested by the Socialist Group. First of all, in relation to the dairy sector, I completely reproduce the previous interventions in relation to the absence and necessity of this attendance. And in relation to the forest fire device, let me tell you that yesterday, indeed, there was also a mass demonstration that went through the streets of Santiago, which counted with the presence I would say that of all the workers who were not at that time on their work and who are integrated into the forest fire fighting device. So many forest agents, nine-month, three-month, Seaga staff and other companies' staff. So, after listening to the intervention of the People's Group on the previous initiative, I come to the conclusion – which I did not realize yesterday when I was there with them – that I am also a fact of irresponsible and liars who came only to Santiago to deceive us Members and to try to deceive the rest of the public, and that we come here to make absolutely irresponsible actions and disrespect and consideration regarding this magnificent government of what this country enjoys. Yesterday, in the demonstration, the workers and workers on the device, who were summoned not only by all trade union organizations, but also by all professional organizations of workers who are integrated into the forest fire device, basically denounced two things: the dismantling of the public device of fight against forest fires and, therefore, the introduction of elements that hinder or we could almost say that they prevent the proper coordination of the device for a functioning that is useful to the country, especially if it happens at a time of stress, and the absolute abandonment of prevention policy. And they used two examples to illustrate this: The disincentive of the municipal brigades and the conventions that appear on the Pladiga this year causes us to be today on July 23, almost a month since we are at the highest risk period, and the vast majority of municipal brigades are not yet in operation. Most of them will also be privatized because the municipalities cannot, they say, face another way of hiring them. And those of prevention, where in most districts forest agents have to go and tell the municipalities what hectares they have to undergo prevention work, they have this on schedule for the first week of August. Well, of course, I've never seen in any manual and I've read something about this, or demonstrations of experts, in which prevention the right time to make it is from the month of August in the Northern Hemisphere, eh! I'm talking about the Northern Hemisphere; in the Southern Hemisphere surely so. They also reported that, despite the permanent propaganda of the Rural Council, even the day before the mobilization, they dared to draw a press note saying that they covered 75% of the vacant squares and the casualties that existed on the device, which was loudly false. But, of course, they said it, that they are irresponsible and liars. All I do is echo myself because I'm as irresponsible as they are. The workers were also told that they only cover themselves, and for that not always, the low vacancy of driving pawns, but never those of pawns. Therefore, indeed, we have as Mr. Méndez Romeo brigades formed by human sets of a person. And, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, the corollary of all this, if you ever want – of course, they are free to do so or not – to analyze the results of forest fire policy, it is a real failure, because despite the number of forest fires, because things have to be measured in relative terms, it's down to 60%, which is a lot in our country, you can't say the same thing about the forest surface. And so that's because the device fails. And, above all, they can't say the same thing, but rather the opposite, about the forest fire surface; that is, we have fewer fires and yet we have less capacity to extinguish the few, the least, who are still many unfortunately fires that we have. That, of course, is an absolutely illustrative fact...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-07-23-DSPGDP008.u44	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-07-23-DSPGDP008.u45	...of failure. And with regard to the other two, we also assume the arguments of both the author of the initiative and the above, in which we believe it is essential to address the phagogization of the rural environment that this government is doing and also to put urgent measures to deal with the growing poverty and social inequalities that are taking place in our country. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-07-23-DSPGDP008.u46	Thank you very much, Mrs. Paz. Parliamentary Group of the Alternative Left Gallega, has the floor to Mrs Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-07-23-DSPGDP008.u47	Thank you, President. Good morning to all of you. The truth is that only, Mr Méndez, if the President of the Galician Union had to appear well in summer only to tackle monographically the problems arising from the policies of the People's Party that lead to inequality, I think that that would only make sense of this legislation. I don't think it's going to be that way and the vote is going to be absolutely unfavorable. But I suppose, of course, we'll agree that only that would serve or justify all we're doing. What reveals by the passive is that they are brought to the Pair – I am allowed to express – or that is happening in Galicia. It's all right, Madam President, it's a normal, colloquial expression... it's a normal thing. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I do... this is the politics of the People's Party in the new days of the People's Party, Mr. Méndez. People's Party Tuit, official account: "Unequality can fight" – from them – "creating jobs, quality education with equal opportunities in origin. New air, Popular Party." This is the people's party's motto. What's happening is that Alberto Núñez Feijó's sexism, in fact, is more like that proclamation that one can fight, in fact, we're being told that they're defending interests that nothing has to do with the reality that afflicts the social majority of our country. And indeed, the indexes are terrible in our country's balance sheet. I'm not going to talk about what Mr. Méndez Romeo has said, but if you give some data about the social situation in this country, because if you're setting up a change in the social model – from which you're talking practically all sociologists and sociologists, even on the right – what's happening is that you're jumping through the change of the social model; that is, you're setting up the so-called "jobs", you're setting up a model in which you can actually access the labour market, but it's also poor the person who access that labour market. So they have to go to Caritas to feed their sons and daughters. And indeed, Mr Méndez, the numbers of the Tax Agency are terrifying: 153,000 people hired in Galicia, 20% of the total, are poor. A brutal reality, brutal!, that, if a former president of the Galician Union, man!, I say that something would have to make you think about the model you're building. 245,000 hired persons, a third of the total, reach 950 euros gross; and we are talking about 800 euros a month, who is the handsome person who lives with these wages! This is real life. It's not that we're millionaires, it's the real life of the data that bloom in the People's Party. And as far as wages are concerned – we're talking all the time about employees and employees – there's a crack, which is no longer social, is that it's lethal, actually, because the lowest decisions in their rents lose 23% and the highest decisions lose only 4%. So the model they're building is brutally aggressive and almost disappears the chances of life worthy of the majority of society. They are setting up a model that is what is actually called "the precarious", without any doubt. This is the model that you incorporated into the last job counter-reform; a work reform – I repeat again – that I didn't even intend to create jobs. And I quote again the report by the Banco de España, in which it speaks clearly, in what actually tells us that this was not the objective of this reform. The goal of this work reform was to undertake the so-called "internal devaluation" -- that is, to lower wages, which, I insist, we are living in our country, or even this which we are living in, which reflects the EPA, and which has just been published today, which is to set up or replace staff hired by false self-employed people, the reason of 44,000 in this last EPA in the entire state. But we're still on a path of false autonomouss; they're really hired in the need to accept what they put on them. Therefore, they are setting up a model that is absolutely risky and dangerous in social terms. Some theorists of the most radical theory in economic terms warn of the model they are building; or, for example, the ESC's own report in Galicia, which is not revolutionary at all, and which is pointing out that, indeed, please, they are undertaking – and end, Madam President – some measure against inequality. I simply ended with an article by Professor Leicega – this cursed man who didn't apply to the Board of Auditors – entitled The perfect storm. Indeed – and finished, Madam President – the perfect storm in Galicia, with authentically suicidal policies and the worst crew we could have in the country as a whole; some captains that actually lead us to the configuration of the sheds. And surely there is no time, but it would be nice to talk about that other part of the social model, which is the deindustrialization of our country, in which, indeed, we have no possibility or any right in the future.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-07-23-DSPGDP008.u48	Thank you, Mrs. Díaz. You have the floor, by the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr. Pedro Puy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-07-23-DSPGDP008.u49	Thank you very much, Madam President. Today's session is simply to debate whether the House thinks it is convenient for the President of the Board to appear in the non-regular period to deal with a number of issues, and logically this debate is not to go to the bottom of the issues, but simply to decide whether now is the time for the President to come to discuss these issues. I want to say that, as already entered, the People's Group considered it convenient for the Government to come to speak on the question of the dairy sector, and, as my companion Isabel García Pacín announced, it is the intention of the Government to include the attendance of the Middle Rural Counsellor in the extraordinary plenary which, together with the spending ceiling, will request at least the Government in the coming days. In the rest of the questions I just wanted to remember something. The Government, in which we have passed legislation, came to committee 60 times and answered 1,271 questions in committee; in plenary it appeared 68 times. The president answered 137 questions from the opposition, 227 additional questions and 137 appeals. We've been talking, for two years, exactly 206 days of legislation... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Excuse me, Madam President, there are some Members who are talking and interrupting...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-07-23-DSPGDP008.u50	Keep going, and be quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-07-23-DSPGDP008.u51	Thank you. It's 206 days, which add up to the two years we've been in legislation, 236 days; which means that, including holidays, it's a government presence in this 2.5-member House a day; I insist, in what we've been in law. So we're not really in a rush for the government to show up. The opposition controls the government in the ordinary period; we have just extended this ordinary period, and that's exactly what we're talking about. Obviously, this is used to generate alarmism, in general lines, by opposition groups. In inequality it was said to fight by creating jobs. There is just beginning to be problems of alarmism with unemployment just the day EPA tells us that the population occupied in Galicia grew by 1.85%, that Galicia has reduced unemployment by 8.4% in relation to the previous quarter, and with regard to the same quarter of the previous year, by 11.20% unemployment. So how will you understand...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-07-23-DSPGDP008.u52	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-07-23-DSPGDP008.u53	I understand you're upset that you create jobs, but we're satisfied. And as for the highest quality and the most transformation of stable employment, which is what the official figures are saying, because much better. That contributes to economic inequality. Certainly, Galicia's great heritage is concerned, among other things, because they pay the same inheritance tax that the Socialist Party and the United Left have in Andalusia, which they put in Andalusia, which is the same as we promised the People's Party and the Socialist Party in Galicia. Therefore, indeed, the great heritage, many, complain because they do not pay the taxes of the heritage that exist in other autonomous communities like Madrid. So here you can say things, tell some stories, and consider yourself a pursuit of a sort of Nazi party while sharing your time between coming to Parliament and interrupting others and giving lectures in the Complutensian, in the capital of the kingdom, paid and subsidized by Spain's principal financial entity, and thinking that he's a pursuit of the Nazis, but that's not our problem. I want to say that there is a social plan against inequality, the government has just recast it; there are more than 300 measures of budgeting, EUR 520 million; there is a bonus of drugs that extends not only to those who perceive the Risk, but also to those families that have smaller positions, who are in situations of economic weakness; there is an agreement with financial entities to continue fighting for the rejections of the weaker families economically; and we are also working on education, increasing the aid, in this case for school checks. Measures that will accompany others and which make that in Galicia, according to all official statistics, both at the rate of risk of poverty and at the rate of Arope, we are significantly better than in the average of Spain in relation to the risk of poverty and social exclusion, and even where average income per person is in the evolution of the past year. It also creates alarmism by saying that rural people are abandoned. Well, this government hasn't shut down any health centers or any ongoing rural care points. They even finished, retired, and 33 new health centers were built. Health transport – which serves rural, mainly – with 11 advanced life-support care ambulances, 101 basic life-support, guarantees a 20-minute isochron in rural, and there are two medical helicopters that support this. And at the same time, the comarcal hospitals, all of them, that of the boat of Valdeorras...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-07-23-DSPGDP008.u54	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-07-23-DSPGDP008.u55	...that of Salnes, Monforte, Barba, Burla and Verín, they have expanded and have not diminished their portfolio of services in recent years. With regard to education, well, I just want to say that the progressive decrease of the student makes it necessary to manage resources well. This made the left-wing governments too, with a small difference, and it is that the left-wing government closed the rural school units, the famous unit schools, when there were 9 or less students, and this government simply regroups them and can reopen them in the future, like, for example, it happened in Lugo, where a few were closed but more were opened, and we're talking about five or less students, who are the ones that have...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-07-23-DSPGDP008.u56	Finish it, Mr. Puy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-07-23-DSPGDP008.u57	...in closing a unit of this style. It could continue to list other services in rural areas. I just want to remember that, with regard to fires, it is traditional – and, of course, this government will do it again, after putting in place the main device in Spain in the fight against forest fire – to appear once the campaign is over, and certainly not...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-07-23-DSPGDP008.u58	Thank you very much, Mr. Puy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-07-23-DSPGDP008.u59	...at the moment when it's developing and spreading the device. For all these reasons, we shall vote against the request of the Socialist Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-07-23-DSPGDP008.u60	Mr. Méndez Romeo, you have the floor to close the debate.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-07-23-DSPGDP008.u61	Thank you very much, President. I would like to thank the support of the other opposition groups for this initiative. And, Mr. Puy, before I get into the matter, I want to break a spear by Mrs. García Pacín, because she, who said a lot of things I have listened carefully to, to which some I've already answered, what she didn't say was that she was going to appear the president, obviously. You're the one who said you're going to come to the councillor. We're here talking about the president's appearance. The advisor has every day of the year to attend and we have a huge list of denied requests. You tell us that this is wonderfully compared to the rest of Spain. Listen, I remind you of the data: gross wages of 410 euros per month for 10% of the workers and 818 euros gross for another 10%. Do you think this is the model we're going to? You're talking about alarmism, but don't you hear what's going on in the demonstrations? Didn't you hear the owners last Friday, didn't you hear the fire workers yesterday? We're bringing here the problems that are, precisely, in the street and you throw them away cheerfully as if this had no relevance. You despise, despise, the fight against poverty. Well, I understand, with you families without any income increased by 93,000. But, Mr. Puy, since May 24th, when the president rediscovers that he has to worry about a social path, we have attended many orphan statements of budgetary support, and, of course, very small in relation to the magnitude of the problems. You're now worried about the subject of evictions – it's not time! – but you've liquidated the housing policy in this country. And back to what is the argument of this request for attendance, how is rural development possible if there is no proper housing policy, if there is no employment-promoting policy? You, when you arrived at the Government, decided that the land mobility legislation promoted by the Government of the coalition of socialists and nationalists in Galicia was bad. They were right to think about it. But what you guys started is just not working, and tell him about any gangsters. And I suppose you're familiar with what it means, in the cost of exploiting livestock, that there's not enough land to have crops and have to replace them with others. Of course, if we talk about the mountain, how many important forest management units work in Galicia? That's the failure of your policy when we're talking about creating decent working conditions that make life in rural areas attractive. I'm not going to talk again about any failure that means the absence of milk policy, the failure of dairy food, or the lack of will when more than 60% of Spain's production, the lack of will to lead Spanish politics in agricultural matters, which is not led by the Government of Greece, who leads it to others, I don't know who; of course, the Government of Greece is not, despite the fact that most of the production is here. So, what's the government doing, when we're asking the Government to appear at this moment to realize these problems? And one last point. Today, after announcing, I don't know if with satisfaction, or of course with surprise, that we're going to lose a million inhabitants, they announce that we're going to work with Saxony. Well, it's okay. We're going to work with Saxony for the demographic rebound. Mr. Puy, I think it must be a little more rigorous in reality...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-07-23-DSPGDP008.u62	Finish, please, Mr. Méndez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-07-23-DSPGDP008.u63	The recent Galician demographic plan that has been dealt with here, as has been said many times, more than accelerated, is the new finding of a failure. Do you really think we're going to fight the desertification of the rural environment and create jobs by talking to Saxony to see if we can get some funds to invest in rural roads? Mr. Puy, I insist, I think the president should come to face, for once, the great problems of the country. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-07-23-DSPGDP008.u64	Thank you very much, Mr. Méndez Romeo. Request for a summons, on the initiative of the GGs. PP. of the Alternative Galician Left and the Galego Nationalist Block, an extraordinary whole for the creation of a research commission on the railway accident in Angrois
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-07-23-DSPGDP008.u65	We started the debate with the groups involved, starting with Mr. Jorquera. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-07-23-DSPGDP008.u66	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, in this request, which is the result of an initiative by the Alternative Galaga de Left, but which also subscribes to the Nationalist Block Galego, we are irresponsible to call for an extraordinary full call for the creation of the research committee on the railway accident in Angrois. And I want to start with a request. In view of the fact that the reform of the Rules of Procedure is being processed in this Parliament and that in this reform it is envisaged, among other things, that there may be a committee of inquiry by legislation to the opposition authorities, because the invitation is that they can begin by voting in favour of this request. Although this measure is curiously designed to simplify the conditions for the creation of research committees, it is proposed that the next legislation should enter into force, whereas the cut in rights envisaged in this reform of the Regulation should enter into force from the time of its adoption. But to put it this way, I will try not to repeat all the arguments that we have already made in full in the multiple times that we have proposed the creation of this commission. I simply ask all of you to sincerely answer this question: could the English accident have been avoided? I sincerely believe that with the data we know today no one could say no. I think it is obvious, from the data we know today, that the necessary measures have not been taken to minimize the risk in the event of a human error. Look, you know, since the last time this request was fully debated, we've known that the machinist chief alerted Renfe before the accident of the danger of the corner of Angrois. His words unfortunately were prophetic, and I'm going to read them textually: "The brake on the corner of Angles must be carried out in a sudden manner without a prior warning by signaling the track. There is only one sign of descending speed at the height of the kilometre 84.230, but of little value, since if you have not previously reduced the speed nothing can be done now." We also learned that a 2002 report alerted us to the danger of curves like that of English. We learned that expert reports claim that the English curve had a predictable and non-tolerable risk, that risks were not analysed as required by European legislation, and that the potential for derailment was one every six months. And we also learned that judicial investigation has been virtually paralyzed for almost a year, among other things, by the obstructive tactics of the renfe and adif leaders. We have heard that the company with which Renfe has hired compulsory insurance of travellers conditions the payment of compensation to be signed a document in which the affected person is considered to be fully compensated and renounces how many shares and rights could correspond to him against the insurer and against the company's company Renfe. We know that in English all that has been done since the accident was to improve the signaling, but the trains are still running without ERTMS. We knew he didn't resign any political responsibility; it's more, for the humiliation of the victims, some were even awarded. Look, ladies and gentlemen, and all that has been said, in this Parliament I have spoken a lot about honoring the memory of the victims. For the victims complain of the humiliating treatment they are receiving from some institutions. The victims are still asking for truth and justice. The victims, the victims who are fortunately still alive, who have not lost their lives, and the relatives of the deceased and the close friends of all the victims, ask to create this investigation commission. Look, tomorrow we cover two years of this tragedy and the victims don't deserve to go to the story on July 24 as the anniversary of impunity. For that reason we call for a vote in favour of the call for an extraordinary full motion for this committee to be set up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-07-23-DSPGDP008.u67	Thank you very much, Mr. Jorquera. Parliamentary Group of the Left Galician Alternative, Mr Beiras has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-07-23-DSPGDP008.u68	Thank you very much. Strictly speaking, what comrade Jorquera has just explained is already sufficiently argued, isn't it? the reason for being this repetition of our demand, which will be going again to be a commission of investigation. Perhaps, in view of what we are seeing in the debate that is going on, we should rather request a commission of inquiry to analyse and debug responsibilities for the disaster, the tragedy of England, because a commission of investigation to find out if there is president of the board and, if so, where it is hidden, right? Because it will turn out that this is a government without president. Reminds me of that tragic thing of many years ago during frankism, the joke that said strange things: "In El Ferrol del Caudillo was born a headless child, they put a melon and he is head of the state." Well, it's very serious. Sometimes black humor is the only defense you have of your sensitivity to what is really something I don't resist telling you that I trust that someday some of these perpetrators will be prosecuted for crimes against human rights. So yes, that's what's happening. After all, in the English catastrophe, only 80 people, 81 people, not people, untermenschen, died, and there were only 140 wounded. Many more die because of lack of adequate medical care, not because of professionals, but because of the disastrous state in which they find themselves. It's absolutely indecent to hear some people from the Popular Group say here, talk about health in terms of which they speak, when we all have relatives, friends, acquaintances who suddenly find out that their mother who needs... who was on a waiting list for a rather annoying operation, because they tell her that they give it to her at last, but that this center or such center, which is not of course the Clinical Hospital or equivalent. And that he says no, that he doesn't, that he wants the Clinical Hospital, that he deserves guarantees, for that level, and he doesn't want this one. Then I said, "Ah! So, I'm so sorry, but we put it on the queue of existing requests." What it means to be back eight months waiting. This is a constant situation. If that's the case, if the living treat them like this, what the hell could matter to you dead people? If the living, who can still protest, treat them this way, it's obvious that the dead care about a fool. That's his absolute lack of ethics. And I'm going back to the beginning, another Thursday, July 24, 1984. Only the title is fabulous: "Egalitarian envy." In other words, if we want human beings to be equal as stated in the United Nations Declaration, because the Spanish State is not in the United Nations, it does not subscribe to its declaration, and the Heads of Government determined also do not comply with the Declaration of Human Rights, "Egalitarian envy" says: "Equality always implies despotism and inequality is the fruit of freedom. The adoption of laws as the last of the civil service" – in 1984 – was either the Socialist Government or it approved it – “constitutes a clear example of equality imposed, since it aims to equate those who by capacity, work and merits are clearly unequal and will only serve to satisfy that great evil that constitutes equal envy”. To such a person, once again, Mr. Mariano Rajoy, then he was already president of the Pontevedra Deputy, what do the dead care about in a catastrophe? "A dead donkey, the barley to the ass." That's what you practice. In any case, we will insist in solidarity with the other opposition groups that this investigation commission is set up, step by step, also to be able to investigate where is the president of the Galician board disk, which cannot be seen by the hair.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-07-23-DSPGDP008.u69	Thank you, Mr. Beers. Round of non-proportional groups. Joint Group, Mrs. Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-07-23-DSPGDP008.u70	Thank you, President. To show support for this audience too, which I believe is of social justice. And the People's Party always tells us, that's in the courts. Because they understand that justice is the justice of the courts and that there is nothing else to say, and, above all, when they do what you want; that is to say, to get a Turkish head, in this case the train driver, when he was from the Prestige the ship captain, here always seeks the worker; what was taking the means of transport, what was working that is the culprit and the others disappears his guilt. Because the government itself prevents political responsibilities from being investigated, the political decisions that led to the situation where we are. But it's more, it allows the danger to continue, not the right means of security. And more importantly, it allows you to open a new Vigo-A Coruña line without any means of security either. I mean, you're really betting because Galicia is traveling to an insecure place. And not only by train, because we read – I think it was yesterday – the report on the Greek roads, which are the worst signs and where more accidents occur because of a poor signaling, or sometimes even excessive meaningless signaling. Therefore, we are going to support this initiative and we were hoping, we should expect that Parliament as a whole would support this initiative, because knowing what was the reason for the worst rail accident in our country, looking for the consequences and political responsibilities is a mandatory role for this government. What happens is that we know that as you don't want to investigate what happened to the savings boxes, that you don't want to investigate what happened to the Prestige, you never want to investigate what's going on with Angrois, what you're trying to do is that you never find out who the Bárcenes, the Álvarez Cascos and all that corruption they've got there, and that they steal from the public works and then what happens, and we have some poor public works in our country. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-07-23-DSPGDP008.u71	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr González Santín.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-07-23-DSPGDP008.u72	Thank you, President. Tomorrow will be two years ago of the terrible railway accident that marked a tragic day in Galicia's agenda, in Galicia's history. A day when many people died, a day when there were dozens of injured both physically and psychologically. Finally – as I told you – a black day for Galicia. It is essential to clarify that it caused the accident, it is essential to identify the mistakes and correct them so that it does not happen again, it is essential to debug responsibilities. Victims and society expect transparency to be clarified what happened that July 24. The Government has an obligation to explain to society the causes of the accident and to do all it takes to clarify the outcome, identify those responsible and lay down the relevant technical solutions so that something like this will never happen again. In this case the credibility of the Government is at stake, but the credibility we have as a country is also at stake. In this case there have been and there are several parallel investigations. The first one, done by Renfe and Adif, who studies the technical causes with railway specialists to tell us what happened that tragic day. And also – you have to say – there's an ongoing judicial investigation, a judicial investigation that, as earlier said to the colleagues who preceded me in the word, because it doesn't go with much agility. We always call for these judicial actions to be agile, because otherwise they will not be fair. And it's also necessary to immediately pay compensation to all victims. I think we need and we have to respect the victims. Analyzing the situation of what happened that day means analyzing how the situation was before, the situation of the roads, the trains, the security, and also what happened at that time. But we also have to analyze something else: we cannot forget the post-accident management, as the victims were treated. The Socialist Group has always held a prudent position since the minute with respect to the success of England, we believe it was best not to have a headline, but to do what we had to do. Prudence, which we understand was necessary, but that at no time can be converted into paralysis. And we know it's necessary to know what happened that day 24 and also to know who was responsible for what happened there. And that's why there's a lot of ways to do it. We believe it would be better to wait for the outcome of the Parliamentary Sub-Commission set up for the effect in the State Parliament. This in no way means that the Socialist Party renounces taking any action that may lead to what happened that tragic day in England. On the contrary, we do not give up anything, because we believe that the victims, the neighbors, the doctors, the firefighters, the psychologists, the police and the rest of society have the right to know what happened that day in England. In this tragic accident, the Greek society suffered a lot, but also the best of us: generosity, solidarity, humanity of an entire army of volunteers who were there to face the victims, receiving the recognition not only of the victims but of the whole society. Some of the victims who made us a call, told us not to forget us and not to abandon us. This call for victims is also part of the management of this accident. You have to clarify what happened in English so that something like this doesn't happen again. It is necessary to know the causes and put the necessary material and human resources so that something like this will never happen again. And for that, therefore, it's necessary to know the results of the ongoing investigations, but that doesn't mean we can't do anything. The Parliamentary Sub-Parliamentary on General Analysis of the Railway System set up for this purpose in the Spanish Parliament has already completed and has obtained a number of conclusions. They recommend the urgent review of the safety measures of the entire rail network. And they also say that it is necessary to pay more attention to the human factor and also to the organizational factor, apart from the technological factors. So there's a lot of things to get better. It is clear that the objective that we have and that we have marked as society is that something like this does not happen again, but it is also necessary to know what happened without limitation. That's why I've already told you from here that we're going to support the summons of this extraordinary whole. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-07-23-DSPGDP008.u73	Thank you very much, Mr. González Santín. Popular Group, Mr. Gómez Alonso.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-07-23-DSPGDP008.u74	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, as the spokesman of the Socialist Party and also of the Galician Nationalist Block has well said, tomorrow we take two years to deal with the English tragedy. And from our parliamentary group, out of respect for and solidarity with the victims of this terrible railway accident, perhaps the worst in our country's history, we would like to reiterate once again that we want them to investigate and clear up the responsibilities and causes of this terrible accident, which has, of course, marked the history of our country. But that is yes, as we have already shown in other sessions, we want it to be done on the basis of vigorous legality. And the law enforcement, ladies and gentlemen, as you well know, points out that this Parliament is not competent to study or create this commission of inquiry, because we do not have competences in the field of railways or railways or hence in railway safety. Ladies and gentlemen, what the current legislation says is that the competent authority for railways, railway services, is the Ministry of Development. What the current legislation says on the basis of European directives is that the competent body to determine the causes of the accident, since here some Member has asked which causes the accident, is the Railway Accident Research Commission, the CIAF, which is composed of seventeen engineers expert in railway safety and in railway installations and in railway services. And if you'd bothered to see the CIAF report, even if it was the summary part, you'd know that within that 266-page report, the CIAF says: [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] "The cause of the accident was an excess speed of the train (circulating 179 kilometres per hour) in the entrance curve to fork A Grandeira (Angrois curve limited to 80 kilometres), for failing to respect the driving staff as set out in the Timetable of train 150/151 and in the maximum speed table of line 082. As a coadjuvant cause, there is a lack of attention of driving personnel in responding to a call on the service of the train itself, coming from the intervener, which motivated the failure to apply the brake properly to reduce the speed before entering that curve." Adds or reports: "The investigation carried out by the CIAF is independent of any judicial investigation and does not, in any case, deal with the determination of the guilt or liability of the accident, as set out in Royal Decree 810/2007 of 22 June in Title III, Article 21." Therefore, the technical causes of the accident, ladies and gentlemen, even if you do not want to listen to them, are determined by the Railway Accidents Research Commission. The legal, criminal or civil responsibilities are the ones that will determine the judge when the investigation is completed, when the investigation is completed. [[Murmurs.]] Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we will respect the procedural times that are marked and we will not enter the game easy to try to manipulate the victims by trying to achieve electoral revenues, because that, Mr. Jorquera, is not irresponsible, that is immoral. As is also... what is irresponsible, Mr. Jorquera and Mrs. Martínez, is that our railway system in Galicia is not safe. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] You were asking a question: Can you avoid the English accident? I'm asking you another question: Is it safer or is the digital ASFA system less secure than the ERTMS system? Can you make sure? Can you make sure? Yeah? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] All right, so prove it technically. Well, you're going to file a complaint against Adif's officials for serving trains with digital ASFA. See if you win that trial. You say you haven't done anything since the Angelis accident. Home!, the State Railway Safety Agency has been approved, the Railway Safety Regulation has been approved, work is being done to improve the protection and assistance of victims, 80 locomotives and 363 units of Renfe satellite driving aid systems have been installed, the location and protection of luggage, the installation of new associated beacon signals, a new signaling system has been created which is the significant speed transition, and the technical problems that the S-730 had of its ETCS system with the ETCS on the track are already solved, gentlemen. And you see the European railway system will compare that Spain is one of the countries or perhaps the country that more ERTMS security systems with signaling...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-07-23-DSPGDP008.u75	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-07-23-DSPGDP008.u76	...have been installed throughout the European Union. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, ERTMS does not mean greater security, it is a system of homogenization of the trans-European transport network signaling systems, which is obviously a different issue. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] We are, of course, going to reiterate our position, because we do not enter the immoral game of manipulating the pain of the victims and their relatives. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-07-23-DSPGDP008.u77	Thank you very much, Mr. Gómez Alonso. [[Mrs. Martínez García speaks words that are not perceived.]] Quiet, Mrs. Martínez. Replication turn of proponent groups. We're starting with the Galician Nationalist Block, Mr. Jorquera.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-07-23-DSPGDP008.u78	Yes, Madam President. Look, Mr. Gómez Alonso, first of all, I ask you: don't talk about morality and at least you don't beg the right to say who is moral or immoral, because if we go into this debate it would take two hours to talk about some immorality. And you're talking about electoral bills? Look, tomorrow the victims will be concentrated in the square of the Obradoiro, talk to them and tell them, explain again that they are against an investigation commission. We, among other things, are serving as a vehicle to the demands of the victims, Mr. Gómez Alonso. Look, you're talking about how to adjust to legality. The Rules of Procedure of this Parliament, and at the moment I do not think that this is yet a dare to change it, speaks of the fact that the German Parliament can agree on the establishment of a commission of inquiry on any matter of public interest, nor does it establish any comment from a competent point of view. Is it not of public interest to investigate the causes of the greatest railway tragedy in our country's history? Did Galicia have any rescue powers when this Parliament set up an investigation committee on the Prestige? But I would like to point out another example, Mr Gómez Alonso, since he appeals to questions of legality: the Box Research Commission, which you have actually put forward to propose new committees of inquiry, should also propose to set up an investigation committee which investigates what happened with the Box Research Committee. Well, because the strategy of the People's Group in the Box Research Commission was to a large extent to say that the whole problem of what happened with the boxes was produced, responsibility of the Bank of Spain. Does Galicia have competences about Banco de España policies? The Regulation of the German Parliament allows for the creation of these committees of inquiry. So when you talk about legality, you don't invent a legality that doesn't exist. Look, I from the CIAF am suspicious of the system, I am suspicious of the CIAF system. But besides, if you tell me about the CIAF, you can't be a judge and a party, that is to say, considering that the conclusions of that body are based on a criterion of independence, with all due respect, is to take us all out of our minds. I made a summary in my first speech of all those issues that we've known since the last time we had a full debate. I could add more: they all show that there were political responsibilities as well. The criminal and political fields are different and complementary areas, and responsibilities in the political field must also be analysed and debugted. And that's what you want to avoid. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-07-23-DSPGDP008.u79	Mr. Beiras, you may speak as long as Mr. Jorquera has left you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-07-23-DSPGDP008.u80	No, no...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-07-23-DSPGDP008.u81	Mr. Jorquera, let Mr. Beiras speak so that he won't be finished.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-07-23-DSPGDP008.u82	I was myself who told Mr. Jorquera that I could use most of the time, because actually I don't know if it makes any sense to say anything. His indecency has no limits. His indecency has no limits, he's a bottomless black well! If I was from the victim's family, that's why I just said, "Thank you for the flower, but I'm shitting myself in the steak." Artifacts are not responsible because they are not human beings. The decisions of the directors of public and private companies involved in this matter and responsible are not technical, it is not a question of finding out what technical failure there was, but of failing to fraud the rules to be applied. The rules that were in the contracts of the companies that had to make the plot, etc., and that were violated. And that's corruption, and there are moral and political responsibilities. And what you're talking about is standing up for morality, it's like putting the fox in the hand of the chickens, which is what you're doing. A commission that won't go to the bottom of the matter, because it's controlled by you. It's the first time you can give yourself a situation like this. But, finally, I know perfectly well that it is useless to come here to expect you to exercise the minimum of responsible activity as far as the voters, their own voters. You were just...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-07-23-DSPGDP008.u83	Thank you very much, Mr. Beers.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-07-23-DSPGDP008.u84	...people who are systematically betraying the citizens who have chosen them, and they start carrying poles and they're going to run them off like rats, and if they don't wait a few months and they'll see. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-07-23-DSPGDP008.u85	Thank you, Mr. Beers. I'm not going to tell you again, because you know, I'd like you to keep your decoration and respect for this House. [[Mr. Beiras Torrado pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Well, I think it's all right, but I'd like you to respect the decoration of this House. And please sit down, you don't have the floor. [[Mr. Beiras Torrado pronounces words that are not perceived.]] [[Mr. Beiras Torrado pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Here I can call you in order, Mr. Beers. Do the favor. [[Mr. Beiras Torrado pronounces words that are not perceived.]] What do you want the word for? [[Mr. Beiras Torrado pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Well, don't be angry with me, Mr. Beers, please do it because you don't have the floor. [[Mr. Jorquera Caselas asks for the floor.]] Mr. Jorquera, why...? No, no allusions, Mr. Jorquera.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-07-23-DSPGDP008.u86	There was an explicit allusion to which we were immoral. Of course, and that doesn't deserve rejection by the president?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-07-23-DSPGDP008.u87	You have no word, Mr. Jorquera, let's see.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-07-23-DSPGDP008.u88	It's just the top. I ask you to repeat those words, of course.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-07-23-DSPGDP008.u89	Mr. Jorquera. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Let's see, I didn't take any words away, I just told Mr. Beers I was waiting for, that I asked him as if he'd held up the decoration of this House; but I tell Mr. Beers and I say it to everyone in general. It seems to me that the limit is already set in a place that I think Mr. Beers today has also exceeded, so I made that reference to him. I hope everyone behaves with responsibility and respect, it's the only thing I ask. The rest can talk about what they want, I'm not here to tell you what they have to talk about and what they don't. And, if you think so, we shall proceed to the vote on these requests for extraordinary full-time calls. First of all, we begin with the request for extraordinary full-time calls. First of all, we begin with the request for an extraordinary full-fledged summons by the Galician Nationalist Block and the Mixed Group. Voting of the request for a summons, on the initiative of the GGs. PP. of the Nationalist Block Galego and Mixto, an extraordinary whole for the urgent appearance of the president of the Galician Union in order to explain the management of the Galician Union to the dramatic situation of the dairy sector. When the vote was taken, it gave the following result: votes in favour, 10; votes against, 11. The result of the vote is negative. This application is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-07-23-DSPGDP008.u90	We are now voting on the second of the extraordinary requests, which is that of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia. Voting of the request for a summons, at the initiative of the G.P. of the Galician Socialists, of an extraordinary full order on the agenda are the urgent requests of the president of the Galician Council requested in the docs. #s. 38409, 38412, 38413 and 38414. When the vote was taken, it gave the following result: votes in favour, 10; votes against, 11. The result of the vote is negative. This application is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-07-23-DSPGDP008.u91	And finally, we voted for the request for an extraordinary full call from the Parliamentary Group of the Glaga Alternative of the Left and the Nationalist Block of Galicia. Voting of the request for a summons, on the initiative of the GGs. PP. of the Alternative Galician Left and the Galego Nationalist Block, an extraordinary whole for the creation of a research commission on the railway accident in Angrois. When the vote was taken, it gave the following result: votes in favour, 10; votes against, 11. The result of the vote is negative. This application is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-07-23-DSPGDP008.u92	The agenda is run out, the session is up. Thank you very much.
