ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG136.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, take your seats, please. Well, good morning again, you open the session. The agenda is published in the Official Gazette of the Parliament of Galicia, so it is not read. She has justified her inattentiveness to Mrs Carmen Iglesias of the Joint Group. Ladies and gentlemen, we are in the development of the agenda, which, as you know, is a unique point. Designation of Senators or Senators Representatives of the Autonomous Community of Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG136.u2	The procedure for the appointment of senators on behalf of the Autonomous Community of Galicia, by agreement of the Bureau and the Speaker's Board of Auditors of 15 December 2015, the number of senators or senators to be appointed shall be three, in accordance with Article 10.1.C of the Statute for the Self-Government of Galicia. Its distribution, made in proportion to the representation of the various political forces in the House, determines that the People's Parliamentary Group in Galicia corresponds to the proposal of two candidatures and the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists in Galicia would correspond to one. After the deadline for submitting proposals, the Bureau, by agreement of 22 December, decided to accept proposals from parliamentary groups and to appoint candidates for Senators. The election shall be made by ballots in accordance with Article 91 of the Galician Parliament's Rules of Procedure. For this purpose, the names of the candidates proposed to mark with a stamp the list of candidates who lend their support. If you don't mark a box, you will consider a blank vote, and if you enter a red tape amendment or any other addition, you will declare a null vote. Therefore, I believe that your lords already have the ballot. We start the vote by calling on the secretary of the Bureau, and I beg Vice President 1st and the Deputy Secretary to sit where the ballot box is collected. Secretary, you may proceed with the call of your lordships.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG136.u3	Yes. [[The Secretary shall read the report of participants in alphabetical order of Members and of Members, who shall put their vote in the ballot box; then shall they make the Members of the Government and, finally, the Members of the Bureau]] Could not connect with command "%s": %s.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG136.u4	Well, if all Members and Members have exercised their right to vote, if we seem to do the polling.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG136.u5	The result of the vote is as follows: votes in favour of Mr Juan Manuel Jiménez Morán, 38; votes in favour of Mr Modesto Pose Mesura, 12; votes in favour of Mr Fernando Carlos Rodríguez Pérez, 38; and votes in favour of Mr Modesto Pose Mesura, 20. Therefore, the support of the House is designated as senators representatives of the Autonomous Community of Galicia for the XI legislate of the Senate Fr. Juan Manuel Jiménez Morán, Mr. Modesto Pose Mesura and Mr. Fernando Carlos Rodríguez Pérez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG136.u6	Before I start the session, I remind the members of the House that at ten o'clock the ordinary session will begin today. Thank you very much. Out of order on the day session wakes up.
