ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u1	Good morning. We resume the session with point 7, which is that of questions for the oral answer of the President of the Galician Union. As reported yesterday, we started with the following accumulated questions. He asked Mr. President of the Galician Presidency of Mr. José Luis Méndez Romeu of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the current system of partial freeness of textbooks He asked Mr. President of the Galician Council of Da Yolanda Díaz Pérez of the G.P. of the Galga de Left Alternative, on the incidence that is having the disappearance of the universal lending system of textbooks, as a result of the establishment of the school check system and of the so-called " solidarity fund"
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u2	You have the word, Mr. Méndez Romeo, to ask your question.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u3	Mr. President, the People's Party has a negative fixation with education in this country, whenever they rule they cut in equity, free of charge and public spending. 13% of public expenditure on GDP in four years and in the Stability Programme announce that they will continue to decline four tenths in the coming years. We were informed one national newspaper the other day that we have Europe's record in cuts in education and health. And you in Galicia cut 321 million euros each year in education, which means 4,000 euros per family and year. You want to segregate and not integrate, with LOMCE, which sets up barriers that are called revalids or that are called premature itineraries. They want to classify and mark to soon discriminate. Example: the exclusive educational systems for the freeness of textbooks. They want to market knowledge, so they reduce public spending in teachers, in teaching centers, in services, and send a clear message to families, very simple: if they want results, they seek life – obviously in private centers – and if they don't care about the future of their children, they can leave them in public centers, which will be more abandoned, which will accumulate very high rates of minors with problems and where there will be chronic failure of resources and unintended cuts. You inherited a universal free system from textbooks and transformed it into a much more expensive partial and selective free offer: it costs 30% more and serves 40% less students. Really, as managers, an absolute failure. Today families have to show their economic status to be labelled, the first step in discrimination. You promote social stratification in teaching. After creating chaos, they now announce the partial return to the previous model, but do not give up classifying or listening to the massive objections of educational centres, teachers, families, even bookkeepers and even the Ombudsman of the People, who in his report – which you will know – literally says: "The partial goal of freeness has suffered an important setback both in the global amount and in the end that is being pursued." This is the situation, Mr President. You said all this was not to pay the books to the rich. You chose to lower the taxes to the rich so that it would be easier for them to pay the books, when they should contribute more to their wealth. So to punish a few, the richest, you took free 40% of the students. Will you continue with this discriminatory model?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u4	Question by Mrs. Yolanda Díaz Pérez, of the Parliamentary Group of the Galga de Left Alternative. You have the word, Mrs. Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u5	Good morning, Madam President. Mr Feijóo, we have once again seen this Parliament talk about life, things that interest people, people who because of the policies of the People's Party are suffering and are having a very bad time. In fact, you just announced improvisedly on 22 and 21 May, two orders that have to do with the change of the system that had to help books and school material in our country. But I would like to begin by reading, Mr. Feijóo, a paragraph that says the following: "Garant the total freeness of basic teaching, so that families don't have to provide some amount by textbooks or other materials of a didactic or curricular nature necessary for their children and children to receive such teaching." This is not a proclamation of the Bolivarian Revolution or Venezuela, of which you like to speak, is a paragraph of the State School Council, Mr. Feijóo. A paragraph that is in line with that repositioning resource that just formulated the Confapa in our country to that order of which I spoke, in a context – if I may – absolutely aggressive by the People's Party to public teaching. Aggressive because since you arrive you certainly have a vital objective, which is to charge public education, so much so that you cut the budget in EUR 356.2 million, both Mr Feijóo, and that is to talk about a 25% reduction in real terms in which we also lost 2,033 teachers, according to our country's public administration bulletin. And we're going to talk about your management, Mr. Feijóo, because since you've been ruling, it's almost 90,000 students and students who have lost all kinds of help. I'll also give you data from the Ombudsman's report. It speaks of Galicia's financing for this particular issue: 5.7% and Andalusia, 20%. You're in a bad situation. The Greek variation is -14% in the contribution made by the Galician Union. But look at your social policy: when you get there, the damned inheritance of the bipartisan was 214,850 children who received that help, today it's 131,000. Mr. Feijó, I will also tell you what you are doing. According to the rule they approved, there are a total of 9,000 euros per capita that would allow families to be segregated who would have access to textbooks. This is 750 euros a month, Mr. Feijóo. The real life is that, fortunately, two people who live in a family and have a salary – they already wanted – of 750 euros, Mr Feijóo, would be left without that text help.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u6	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u7	But for further inri, Mr. Feijóo, you know that the maximum is 180 euros. So you're violating an inalienable right like education, which has to be free and has to be universal. You're calling the system, Mr. Feijó. So, will I change and go back to the universal loan that you inherited and that, in fact,...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u8	Thank you very much, Mrs. Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u9	...is now much more expensive for all of us?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u10	The President of the Board has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u11	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am glad that you ask me about a question that I think is fundamental to Greek society as is teaching. Teaching has been, is and will be one of the priorities of this government. Despite the fact that this government since it took possession – it in this and the previous legislation too – it has counted every year with less public resources, despite the fact that this government is today managing Galicia with 2,000 million euros less than it had the bipartisan to manage Galicia, despite all this, Your Honor, I don't think it is reasonable not to admit that the educational community – i.e. teachers and teachers in Greece – has made a great effort over the past few years and that the Greek society, through the assumptions, has also made a huge effort. Your Honor, today we have 85,000 students who are taught in a third language, 85,000 students, and 220 multilingual centers. When we took possession there was none. Today we have 52,000 students studying with a computer in the classroom. 500 public centers are giving their classes, at least one or more subjects, with a computer and with digital content in the classroom. When we got to the government, there was none. Today, Your Honor, among all of us we created 10,000 new public squares of school dining, 22% more than when we arrived at the government. Today, Your Honor, we were able to create 54% more vocational training squares, 54% more public vocational training squares than when we got to government. I think a very clear way of thanking the work of the teachers and the teachers in Greece is to collect the fruit of their effort by lowering school failure and having the lowest school failure in our history. Ladies and gentlemen, the failure at school, according to data from the Galego Institute of Statistics, is 16.4%, nine points less than when the bipartisan ruled. Your Honor, I believe that all this data should not be hidden from its basic protagonists - teachers and teachers of public education - and, secondly, from its direct protagonist, who is the Greek society. Your Honor, among all of us we can achieve and we are succeeding in having universities at the most accessible university rates in Spain. It's three times more expensive for a student to go to a Catalan university than to a Greek university. The Greek families save 20 million euros each year as a result of having the lowest university rates in Spain. So, Your Honor, I am convinced that all this data you celebrate is because I think it's data that clearly reflects the teacher's commitment, the commitment of the Greeks and the commitment of a Galician board who knows perfectly that education is a right for everyone. [[Applause]] Your Honor, as I said, when we got to the government we found each year with less money and that's why we thought those with less money had to have a priority in our policies. That's why we approved a system to facilitate the freeness of textbooks to families with less resources. And the truth is, today 70% of the Greek families can buy their books without providing a euro of their scarce family money. And so, Your Honor, I don't accept this, I don't think it is to accept a basic principle: at a time of economic restriction we have to support those who have the least and at a time of economic restriction we have to ask for more support from those who have the most. So, Your Honor, I am surprised that we are currently criticized simply for doing what you should do and defend, which is not to pay everyone's textbooks but to pay for most of them who need to be paid. And that's what we did. Your Honor, in addition to this we have continued to listen to society over the last few years: we have indeed heard the Anpas, indeed, we have heard the Ombudsman of the People, indeed, and even, as it is logical, we have listened to you. And that's why now what we're doing is a combined model of free loan and help to buy books for free. A combined model to achieve, Your Honor, that more and more people have more free books and that those who buy free books leave them at school for the next students and for later generations. Your Honor, I don't know exactly what we're being accused of, but I think this approach is out of focus, Your Honor. Because what's important now is not just the topic of paper textbooks, the important thing is to get teaching ready for digital textbooks, and so, Your Honor, we're investing a lot more money than the bipartite invested with textbooks. Your Honor, to scan all the teaching classes in Galicia we have just invested 11 million euros so that both rural and urban classes have the ability to expose their contents through digital books. We're Spain's first autonomous community that's working on the digital book content project, where we're investing another 3 million euros. So, Your Honor, the discussion of the present and, above all, the discussion of the future is...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u12	It's over, president.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u13	...if we can get the children in Galicia to study through digital content. That's exactly what the most excellent private schools in Europe do, and we want these finest private schools in Europe to be our public schools in Galicia, ladies and gentlemen. [[Murmurs.]] We want that because it's our commitment. [[Applause]] Your Honor...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u14	President, stop, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u15	...I just propose...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u16	Finish, President, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u17	...if the Anpas are proposing it, if you were considering it, why are you criticizing us for combining a model that is your proposal and our proposal?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u18	Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u19	Your Honor, some want to politicize education, we want to improve education. Thank you very much, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u20	You have the word Mr. Méndez Romeo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u21	Mr. Feijóo, you took the government with public spending on education in a historical record, 5 points on GDP, and you dropped to 3.7. You're in Galicia, 321 million euros less each year. And if we talk about free textbooks, less money in 2014 than in 2013 and that in 2012. And if we talk about free, 80,000 students who had it before and now don't have it. And that's what you call it? Solidarity? I like you to draw on the results of the improvement in the abandonment of failure, etc. Listen, we're getting better all over Spain, we're getting better all over Europe. But you should compare yourself to the leading communities in Spain, which are six points below Galician data. Mr. Feijóo, you are now talking happily about the fact that there will be a system of digital books without parallel and equal to the best data in Europe. When I have a minute, your advisor will come around here and tell us about it with data. It's not true, simply, it's not true that they're working in that direction. Mr President, you should tell the rich the same thing as all the Greeks and the Greeks: progressive taxation in exchange for a state of well-being with universal and free public services. Your argument for the rich is a sophistication that can't even cover up the scandalous inequality that grows with you. We demand equality and universality because services for the poor end up being poor services, they are not to alleviate poverty, they are to strengthen the condition of poverty. The absolute freeness of books and school material is more equitable and would cost less, and of course it would cost much less than they spend on advertising, than they spend on the scandalous and manipulative news about television and what they spend on advisors. Where it's classified, it's segregated. You've had years to remember what it was like before:
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u22	Go finish, please. Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u23	...before some schools had established segregation with two doors and at the university, with a funnel of access. Today there is subtle discrimination based on labelling, based on the fact that there are now university degrees...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u24	Finish, Mr. Méndez Romeo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u25	...free and other payment, based on replacing equity so you hardly call efficiency. Do you really think you'll be able to be more efficient by destroying the system's equity?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u26	Thank you very much. Quiet, please. Mrs. Díaz Pérez's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u27	Mr. Feijóo, frankly, I believe – I insist – that Montepío prevents you from seeing reality. He talks about the digital books here, I simply ask him to visit – his Mr. Javier Dorado has been with us at that meeting – the IES centre of Teis, which is specialized in computer science, and to see the problem that they have, being a center dedicated to that subject, for internet connections. Tell him about the reality, Mr. Feijó. You're talking to us here about things to give headlines that don't have to do with people's lives, Mr. Feijóo. Tell us about English and I'm telling you that I have a little daughter who in my neighborhood, in my city, can't have a school where I speak English and we'll see if you can speak English, but the first thing you have to talk is Greek. Yes, Mr. Feijóo, you worry about these things, about these things. But look, Mr. Feijó, of course, it's not about priority. You have a problem with the Spanish Constitution, Mr. Feijóo, you have a problem! Article 27 says what it says, I also read to you what the Council of State says and, if you like, we also talk about the Ombudsman's report. The problem is that the system has to be universal and free, to start solidarity is already the taxes, Mr. Feijóo, that is where we have to provide everyone according to income. Actually, we don't want to segregate in the centers, but I'm telling you again, Mr Feijóo: I know you don't have children or daughters, but actually starting a school course costs between 500 and 700 euros a month, Mr Feijóo, and you... [[Mr Prado del Río speaks words that are not perceived.]] Sorry, no course, sorry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u28	Quiet, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u29	Sorry, no course, Mrs. Prado. Sorry, in the course. And indeed, the help you give is up to 180 euros as help, Mr Feijóo. This is the reality. And we're talking, I mean, about a couple who are lucky to have a job and get between the two, 1,500 euros, Mr. Feijóo. This is not about this system, and besides you, as you said yesterday, changes the system because it was a mistake you did: it was more costly, more ineffective, as the Ombudsman's report says, and indeed more unequal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u30	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u31	The question is: Go back, Mr. Feijóo, pay attention to the Anpas, step back and put the system that we had and that you inherited from the bipartite.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u32	Thank you very much, Mrs. Díaz. The President of the Board has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u33	Thank you very much, Your Honor. I don't understand very well, Your Honor, why you ask this when you take this system from the 2009-2010 course and it is planted justly for the 2015-2016 course. [[Murmurs.]] I don't understand, Your Honor, because we started a new system and explained it, and we explained it to you thinking something very reasonable: unemployed people without benefits are entitled to the freeness of textbooks. What I don't think we're asking for and we can't ask unemployed people without benefits is that they fund the textbooks of people who have a lot of money and who pay even the property tax. [[Applause]] So, Your Honor, we are surprised by this new planning of the new left that we are listening to in the Chamber. For a moment I thought, Your Honor, that belonged to the bank of the British Conservatives, but I see that things can be of any kind of planning. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And I can't understand it because this system, Your Honor, has been approved for a year, a year. In Order of May 28, 2014, we approved this mixed system and since May 28, 2014 no questions were asked to me until one year later. Exactly why? Your Honor, it seems good to think about it, but you will understand that I also have to think about why they are asking me this right now. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Your Honor, why don't you tell the House that they only have the universal loan system two autonomous communities, Navarre and Andalusia? Why? Are all the rest of the autonomous communities wrong? Are all the rest of the autonomous communities – Asturias included, Your Honor – wrong? [[Interruptions.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u34	Look, Your Honor, of course I must read the report, it is my duty, but I, of course, will not hide the truths from the Greeks. Constitutional law marks compulsory and free schooling up to the age of 16. Nothing else, Your Honor. Don't lie. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Don't lie. [[Mr. Díaz Pérez: Universal and free...]] [[Interruptions.]] ...seriousness. Don't lie. That's why, as I'm asked to read the report and I'm even told about Finland: the equity of the Welsh education system, according to the Pisa OECD report, Galicia has the second largest equity system after Mexico. Real equity, you guys who talked about Finland... [[Interruptions.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u35	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u36	Finland leads real equity with 112 points. Galicia and the Basque Country are the only two autonomous communities with homologable scores: 106 points. Could not connect with command "%s": %s. [[Applause]] Your Honor, this is the true fairness of the OECD and the Pisa Report. That's it, Your Honor, what they say. That's why I'm proud of the teachers and the teachers in Greece. That's why I think coming here to criticize what they do, and what we do in Galician society doesn't seem right. [[Murmurs.]] [[Interruptions.]] Your Honor, what do you say to the Ombudsman? For the Ombudsman of the People says she recognizes that all autonomous communities should apply the solidarity book bank that Galicia will apply. Your Honor, what are you talking about? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Mr. Méndez Romeo, with all due respect, I know perfectly that the bipartisan had a lot of money, I know. I know well because we're paying for the 2,000 million euros you spent and you've given up your duty, so we know it perfectly well. [[Interruptions.]] I even know, gentlemen, that you used to spend, yes. But, look, I don't know if they spent a lot on education, what I do know is that they had the biggest school failure in education. And that's why, when we're all working together now and succeeding in reducing school failure, I think we need to put this approach to value. [[Murmurs.]] Your Honor, I was told about a very interesting conversation between Mário Soares and Olof Palme the other day. Mario Soares came to Stockholm on an official visit to Olof Palme and said that he would try to reduce the number of rich in Portugal, Olof Palme said, "Look, here in Sweden, what we're trying to do is reduce the number of poor." I think that's much smarter, Your Honor. And that's why, as we're trying to reduce the number of people who have difficulty reaching the end of the month, these have free books in full economic recession. And to the rich, Your Honor, those who have the most resources – that is, those we are in this room – it would not be reasonable for the people who are unemployed to pay the books to the boys and girls of the Greek Members. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u37	Silence, please
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u38	That's not what I'm going to ask you, Your Honor, I'm not going to ask you because I don't think it's appropriate. [[Applause]] Your Honor, what I think is appropriate is to continue to help those who have the least and we will continue to work for families with vulnerability, with economic difficulties. And so, within the Plan to Combat Economic Inequity – because economic recovery is for everyone, Your Honor – what we have to propose – and that is our opinion – is to start a line of help for the acquisition of school material, which has never been done. That's why our commitment is to reach between 60,000 and 70,000 students with a check of between 40 and 50 euros to buy school material in the next course. [[Murmurs.]] That's what I think we should do, and that's what we're going to do. [[Applause]] Your Honor, if we are able to redistribute the incomes and if we are able to help buy not only the books, which have them for free, but school material to between 60,000 and 70,000 students of moderate-income families, we will know why we do this type and politics. And above all, Your Honor, families with less resources know they have an ally in Galicia: the Government of the United States. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u39	Thank you very much. Ask Mr. President of the Galician Council of D. Francisco Jesus Jorquera Caselas, of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the declaration of illegality of the suspension of the wind competition
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u40	Mr. Jorquera has the floor to ask his question.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u41	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Feijóo, after what we just heard, I don't know if I'm referring to you as Mr. President of the Board or Robin Hood. [[Laughter]] But in any case, and by focusing on the subject, you say your party has to renew policies and attitudes, remember now the inequality, the rejections, the injustices caused by pharmaceutical reparations. He had to suffer an electoral reversal to remember now the social drama caused by his policies. Look: You liked it late, as we say in English. What is this renewal of policies and attitudes, Mr Feijóo? When you turn into a cambalach the renewal of the statutory organs? In trying to keep them tied and tied, as the dictator would say, when only one year is left for the end of the legislation? In presenting a reform of the Law of the Board of Auditors, in your opinion, to strengthen your powers and independence, and at the same time to negotiate from the back of the Greek Parliament the renewal of vacancies while holding a person charged with embezzlement in the Council, Mr Feijóo? A defendant, Mr Feijóo, for alleged misappropriation of funds in a foundation which the Council itself has a duty to monitor. So do you understand democratic regeneration? Look, speaking of democratic regeneration, what opinion does the Supreme's ruling deserve from you that it ratifys that the annulment of the two-party wind competition was illegal? Mr. Feijóo, that renewal of policies and attitudes must begin for you, because you have reached the presidency of the Galician Union by relying on great falsehoods: First, the falsity of the photos of the previous Vice President of the Union on a boat. A few pictures, by the way, with a person whose honorability nobody put in doubt, a few photos taken years before their publication, and then it turns out that we already knew that there were other photos on a boat, these, yours, Mr. Feijóo, and a well-known drug dealer. Second, the falsity of the imposition of the Greek. Now it turns out that IGE data reveal that it's their policies that are leading to the imposition of Spanish in Galicia. Finally, the falsity that the wind competition was illegal. Now justice ratifys the decision of the Supreme Court of Justice in Galicia saying that that annulment caused a situation of legal insecurity. Now justice says his government has incured power deviation. Now the justice says, Mr. Feijóo,
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u42	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u43	...that the illegality you committed, that that cancellation was illegal. So, what responsibility will you assume before the declaration of illegality of the cancellation of the wind competition, Mr. Feijóo?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u44	Thank you very much, Mr. Jorquera. The President of the Board has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u45	Ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Jorquera, in order to be able to work against inequalities, we had to do the economic policy that would now allow us to continue to do, Your Honor. If we created the economic policy of bankruptcy, or the rescue, or the liquidity fund, or the payment to suppliers, we couldn't do it. And that's why, ladies and gentlemen, the policy against inequalities has begun... for example, when you talk about evictions, we have avoided about 300 since 2012, and we have an agreement with Sareb for a long time, and now we also incorporate banks that want to join, especially those that have home and headquarters in Galicia. And that's why, Your Honor, I don't know what I'm accused of, that 70% of the boys and girls in Greece, with 20% less budget, 2,000 million less, have free textbooks during the economic recession, or that we increase by 22% the school lunches, or that, Your Honor, we increase the level of vocational training in public education by 54%? Your Honor, I don't know exactly what you accuse me of. What I do know is that I accused the Government that you mention the wind competition, and I read textually: "The wind competition has a lack of adequacy in existing legislation." That's not what I'm saying, you gave a bipartisan government member. "The PSOE deactivates the wind commission by leaving it without the power to solve." I'm not saying that, Your Honor, you gave the party that made up your government. "The president will review the wind division of the BNG, and accept it or not." Your Honor, exactly that we are accused of internal problems of the bipartisan, seven years later bring this to the House and talk about the PP mistrust of the wind competition after those glorious weeks of bipartisanism within the Government? Look, Your Honor, with all due respect, I think we must report properly. The wind competition of the bipartisan was questioned by everyone: firstly, by the Advisory Council, which said that it had legal stamps, the Advisory Council, Your Honor; secondly, by the members of the Government themselves; and thirdly, by the 55 resources that still have that contest, 55. Your Honor, what have we done? What we commit to: first, to repeal the decree; second, to review the contest; and third, to recover the lost time. Your Honor, we have fulfilled our electoral program, which was to leave that contest without effect with legality stamps, as specified by the Advisory Council and with doubts and questionings of the government itself. Your Honor, what you're sure will clarify in the reply is that you're talking to me about a sentence. There are twelve judgments of the Supreme Court of Justice in Galicia where it says that what we did is right. You talk to me about something, why don't you tell me about the rest of the sentences? By the way, Your Honor, you tell me about a sentence but you don't tell me about all the others, who are after that and who come to leave that without effect.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u46	Finish it, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u47	Your Honor, why don't you tell the House the truth and say there are twelve rulings that support what the Government of Galicia has done? Thank you very much, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u48	Mr. Jorquera Caselas' reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u49	Mr. Feijóo, your argument is that in order to fight inequality, we have to make policy that increases inequalities, because all the data indicate that Galician inequality has grown exponentially. Secondly, a clarification: if I'm not confused, the Government that cancelled that wind competition was its own. Do you ask how we bring this question to the control session seven years later? Because there's just been a Supreme Court ruling, he just said the Supreme Court, Mr. Feijóo, and he says that that annulment was illegal, you don't falsify the reality. Look, that decision was not only illegal, it was sectarian and irresponsible. And the problem is that the consequences are paying all the Welsh and all the Greeks. Claims, this judgment, the illegality you committed can give rise to multiple claims of compensation. That illegal decision, Mr Feijóo, caused the paralysis and defeat of the wind sector; that illegal decision caused the loss of thousands of jobs. Look, Mr. Feijóo, if the tender had not been cancelled, it would have consolidated projects that would not be affected by the abolition of renewable premiums. There are studies that say they'd be working 10,000 people on those projects if you hadn't cancelled them. To justify that irresponsible decision, Mr. Feijóo, you announced that with the new tender, 6 billion euros would be invested, do you know how many were invested? About 850, Mr. Feijó. They said 13,200 jobs were to be created between direct and indirect, do you know how many were created? About 1,800, Mr. Feijó. In 2005, there were 5,600 direct jobs in the sector, do you know how many jobs there are now, Mr Feijóo? Just a thousand. When you arrived at the presidency of the Galician Union, you were a power of wind, and now you know Castile-The Mancha, now you know Castile and Lion...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u50	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u51	...even in Andalusia has installed five times more power than in Galicia since you are president, Mr. Feijóo. The result of that illegal decision and the Rajoy government regulatory scandal you supported is the fiasco of the wind sector, Mr Feijóo. Their irresponsibility and sectarianism came out very expensive to this country.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u52	Finish it, Mr. Jorquera, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u53	That is why – and I have already concluded, Madam President – Mr Feijóo, to renew politics, to renew attitudes, the first thing to renew is yours. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u54	The President of the Board has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u55	Your Honor, in inequality, the other day we saw the survey of living conditions – the last published – we are the autonomous community with the least inequality of the state. Ladies and gentlemen, on the subject of the judgment, why, Mr Jorquera, that you here are a serious and consistent Member, come now with this question? Your Honor, the sentence you refer to is July 24, 2012. The only thing the Supreme Court does is that it doesn't admit marriage, point, anything else. But, Your Honor, there are four subsequent judgments that leave the previous sentence worthless. Let me tell you the dates of the judgments so Galicia knows the truth: a judgment of January 23, 2013, another of April 24, 2013, another of May 8, 2013 and another of October 23, 2013. Mr. Jorquera, why do you omit the reality about the wind competition?, what are you looking for now several years later?, to clear someone's image? I don't know, Your Honor, I don't care. I'm concerned about Galicia's interests and the truth in Galicia. So, Your Honor, I am surprised that you now come with a judgment that the Supreme Court does not enter into value, which simply says that the appeal is not admitted, and also the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia... [[Interruptions.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u56	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u57	...it comes with four later judgments saying that there is no reason for that judgment, because it changed the whole model of the wind, in addition to, among other things, a law passed in this Parliament. Your Honor, there's no cause, there's no judgment that swallows what the bipartisan did. Look, Your Honor, we also have eight other pronouncements by the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia, in addition to the previous four, all in favour of the Union, and they all validate what the Board has done in this area, all of them. Consequently, twelve judgments in favour of the decisions which were taken by the Council of Galicia. Look, Your Honor, 83% of the contest is in process, companies running what's theirs. In fact, you say that only EUR 800 million has been invested, the figure is correct, and that only 1,800 jobs have been created, the number is correct. With you, Your Honor, we paid the premiums and then left them with public deficit; now there is no cousin, Your Honor, now companies have to invest without premiums. By the way, Your Honor, why did we make that Law of the wind sector? Look, Your Honor, to collect 137 million euros from the wind canon. Galicia needs to know that the two-party government didn't ask businesses for a euro. We not only ask them to pay a tax for each mill, but... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u58	Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u59	...have paid EUR 137 million since we arrived in the Government, and we are redistributing them in the municipalities and in the Galician Union, among other things, to make social policy, Your Honor,
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u60	Go finish the president.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u61	...to make social policy. That's the big difference between you and us. [[Applause]] Your Honor, with the cancellation of the BNG wind competition, we avoid many legal problems in Galicia...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u62	Finish, president.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u63	...and above all we also avoid a lot of problems with BNG. You ask me if I'd cancel the contest again, and I say, yes, no doubt. Look at one thing, Your Honor, why do you have this bully with the contest, which has already caught everyone's attention?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u64	Please finish, president.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u65	Your Honor, it makes you feel that instead of asking a question what you're trying to make some commitments. Mr. Jorquera, you are a coherent and honest Member...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u66	Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u67	...I'm surprised you're forced to ask this question. Thank you very much, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u68	We continue the development of the agenda, the non-legislative proposals. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da María Remedios Quintas Álvarez and two other Members, on the demands to be made by the Government of Greece to the Central Government regarding the coverage of unemployment benefits and the transfer of funds to Galicia for the promotion of active employment policies
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u69	This non-legislation proposal was presented with an amendment to the Galician Nationalist Block.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u70	You have the floor to formulate the non-law proposition to Mrs Gallego Calvar.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u71	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Let us see if we are able to speak about the reality in this Parliament, because now since this new modality in which the President of the Union tells the opposition groups what we can or cannot ask him about in this Parliament, and even in this new reality where when the Government and the People's Party are not interested in discussing matters in Parliament, we can cancel ourselves completely by contravening the Constitution, the democratic state, the statute of autonomy, the regulation of Parliament and everything, with the consent of the President of Parliament, because we are going to see whether we are able to subtract all this which is happening in this House and speak a little about the reality of a reality in which, despite official propaganda, as much as the President of the Union says today, there is more poverty, more precariousness, more unemployment and more inequality than when he arrived at the Government in 2009, however much he tries to say things as they are not. And we're going to talk about the reality of the labour market, about what's happening with the labour market, about what's going on with the men and women who work in our country in a state of absolute precariousness, where today workers and workers are poor and also with all the people who don't have any kind of benefit anymore because they've exhausted the time to receive benefits. They've run out of time because, among other things, Mr. Rajoy's government has shortened both the counties and the times when unemployment benefits and subsidies could be received, and Mr. Feijóo's government has failed and even applauded that kind of initiative. The non-law proposal we bring today from the Socialist Parliamentary Group is very simple. He has come to say more or less that the German Government must demand from the Central Government, the Government of Spain, the increase in coverage for unemployed people, which establishes new benefits for the specially affected groups, extending the current conditions, and increasing funds to be transferred to Galicia for the promotion of active employment policies. Why are we presenting this initiative? Because the central government is saving at the expense of the unemployed and the Greek stops no less than between 2014 and 2015 more than 387 million euros, by the smaller counties it is investing in unemployment benefits. Well, those 387 million euros that are saving between 2014 and 2015 the Central Government at the expense of the unemployed and unemployed in Galicia should come to Galicia to invest them in active employment policies. It is true that in order to make that request to the Central Government and for them to come to Galicia these 387 million euros should also the Greek Government change its policies, because it is not even able to execute the tiny resources that it devotes each year to active employment policies. We have to remember here that the Government of Greece has cut in more than 54% the active employment policies since Mr Feijóo's rule, and that this cut that has been brutally made in budgets an important part of these resources of each year are left unimplemented, with absolutely pilgrimage excuses from the Labour and Wellness Councillor when he comes here to answer our inquiries from the Socialist Group. They leave out more than a third of the funds allocated each year to active employment policies. And not only that, not only do they stop running those economic resources, but they're also slowly dismantling public employment services. They began to do so when 212 people were fired from work orientation precisely in our country with a Central Government grant, implemented by Mr. Caldera when he was Minister of Labour, and then Mr. Rajoy's Government took care of eliminating it. President Feijóo, as soon as these central government benefits were eliminated, what he did was put on the street to 212 people who were working from the Public Employment Service to help the unemployed and unemployed in our country to have a job fit for their curriculum and training. And they followed with a portfolio of services, of public employment services, which they have not yet dared to publish today, because they know that they have the deepest rejection of both the union centres and an important part of society, since what they were doing with that portfolio of employment services – which they dare not publish in the Official Journal of Galicia – was in fact privatizing the Public Employment Service, and returning to that model of the People's Party of Private Agencies that were set up at the time of Mr. Fraga. The truth is that these 387 million euros that the Central Government has stopped spending on the unemployed and stopped in Wales between last year and this year would be very good for us to face this growing inequality, growing poverty between the working people of our country and the growing inequality that is taking place in Galicia. Because I'm going to remember some data to fight against official propaganda, that one that tells us every day that in Galicia he lives better now than when Mr. Feijóo arrived at the Government. Now, according to the first quarter of this year's active population survey, we have over 275,000 unemployed people in Galicia. The differential with Spain, that is, the behaviour of the Galician labour market with regard to the behaviour of the Spanish labour market since the rule of Mr. Feijóo, is much worse. If in 2009 the differential was favorable to Galicia by 5.16 points, currently down to 1.95 points, it dropped by 62%. If the number of people employed in 2009 was 48%, it's now 41%, i.e. the lowest fourth in the autonomous communities behind the state average. The number of homes where all its members are stopped is now 95,000, 119% more than in 2009. And despite the fact that, in fact, last year there was a slight decline in employment growth and also in the early years of this year, the fact is that the behaviour of the German labour market has been worse all these years than that of the state as a whole. And that Mr. Feijóo's balance, in spite of triumphalism and propaganda, is that there are 113,000 more unemployed people today since 2009, that there are 181,000 less busy people, that Galicia is the first autonomous community where the decline of the occupied people has been higher, that have disappeared nearly 100,000 memberships of Social Security and that there is more precariousness and temporality. 93% of contracts signed, for example, last May were temporary, and we have 10% less labour costs than the state average and 11% less wage costs than the state average, only behind the Canary Islands and Extremes. I mean, all the data say we're worse now than in 2009, with more unemployment, more precariously, with fewer busy people, less social security affiliations and an ever wider gap. And if we really measure the positive change in employment in 2014, which was just 0.6%, it means 576 jobs. That's all the propaganda and publicity Mr. Feijóo can assume: 576 jobs created in 2014 with a positive change in employment. And if we measure it as EPA says to measure it, which is in full-time equivalent jobs, we would actually have a decrease in employment of 2,525 people, precisely as a result of increased part-time recruitment and precariousness. But besides this, two out of three unemployed people today don't charge any benefits anymore. And precisely for these people, this initiative of the Socialist Group is going to be addressed, with these EUR 387 million that the Central Government has saved between 2014 and 2015 for cuts in unemployment benefits to unemployed people and to the Greek unemployed if an active employment search policy is made in Galicia. Obviously, in order to do this policy, we need to change the policy that the Government of Greece is making and we need to strengthen the Public Employment Service, more people need to be devoted to working orientation for the unemployed and the unemployed, and those people who are in long-term unemployment need to have a return to employment and a return to training suitable for the new times, which seems to be not very willing to do in spite of everything that's happening. Because from what we hear every day here to the work and well-being advisor, and from what we hear every day here to President Feijóo, it seems like this is all about wonders. And the reality, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, is that today in Galicia you have a job doesn't ensure that one can arrive at the end of the month and that there are two out of three people who have one day had a job and that today they don't have any benefits. And do you know how these deficiencies abound in our country? Installing charity...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u72	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u73	...and demagogy in the measures that Mr Feijóo has announced every day. Instead of fighting for the rights of people, who have lost them in this labour crisis, in this social crisis and in this economic crisis, you are doing every day is media announcements to see if they convince the electorate that they have escaped on May 24. Instead of worrying about working and helping people who are hurting him, but guaranteeing them rights, not making charity, which is what President Feijóo has been announcing every day here. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u74	Thank you, Mrs Gallego. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u75	Good morning. Despite the fact that for the People's Party and for Mariano Rajoy the issue of unemployment is no longer worrying to anyone, because unfortunately we still have to talk about unemployment, because unemployment remains the biggest concern for the Greeks and the Greeks, and the last CIS survey continues to reflect that this is so. And in Galicia, despite this official propaganda of the path of recovery, there are still thousands of people immersed in the drama of unemployment, precarious employment, underemployment, those jobs that do not allow them to leave the poor, those part-time jobs, those jobs that are increasingly precarious and less protected. The reality of the labor situation in Galicia is that of loss of social rights, of emergency, which leads thousands of people to accept any work in any condition. Because the economic powers, with the invaluable help of both the German and Spanish governments, have been entrusted with providing them with all the resources to have a real reserve army that will allow them to work. The reality is that there are less and less unemployed people who are earning some contribution and there are less and less subsidies. Practically half of the people who don't have a job, who are unemployed, don't charge any benefits, 55% right now, and going down. If in 2014 and December 2013 it was sixty-one percent, in December 2014 it has already fallen to 55%. And those who have been losing their jobs for so long, that is, long-term unemployed people, are practically 60% of those in this situation; and of them, for the age of 45, their situation is already practically dramatic, 44% have been looking for jobs for more than two years. These are the real numbers of unemployment in Galicia. In this context it is not understandable for the Spanish Government to allocate resources of less than 10% for the Public Employment Service for this year 2015. And within these resources, 15% of savings correspond to what they make in unemployment benefits. But this decline is not because there are fewer stops, not much less, but because there is a hardening in access to the conditions of benefits, because there is a decrease in the number of beneficiaries, because there is a decrease in counties because wages are much less. It is tremendous that at a time when there are still thousands of people in unemployment, unemployment rates are around 22% in Galicia, it turns out that the luxury of attracting, in the case of Galicia, more than 300 million euros for people in unemployment is allowed. That's why we agree with this initiative presented by the Socialist Party, to which we present two amendments which we believe complement this situation: The first is the derogation from the infamous labour reform of 2012, which enables this downturn in benefits. It is the one that allows for more and more precarious employment, for people to pay less wages, for which they earn less unemployment, and for lowering the counties and times in unemployment benefits. And an amendment that demands the execution of the total planned employment budget for Galician Union by 2015. It is scandalous that at a time when there are so many unemployed people in the Galician Union, 54% less resources are allocated to the promotion of employment, and these resources run a very small part. It is scandalous that this is the case and it is scandalous that you are denied it at parliamentary headquarters, that you are denied it by the counsellor and that you are denied it by the director general at parliamentary headquarters. But the reality is tenuous and the Council's own data clearly places there is a budget deficit in policies aimed at job integration, aimed at vocational training for the unemployed, aimed at improving employment qualifications, with a tremendously low budget level. So, hoping that the Socialist Party will accept these amendments, that we believe they improve, or that at least contextualize some of the aspects of why the unemployed in Galicia are in such a terrible situation, we will vote favourably, accept or not accept this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u76	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u77	Thank you, President. Good morning to all and to all. Unemployment protection coverage in the State was 54.87 % in April 2015, but in Galicia it was the same month as 53.27 %, and a month earlier, in March, it was 53.48 %; that is, monthly unemployment coverage in Galicia comes to fewer people. Expenditure on unemployment benefits reached EUR 94.39 million in Galicia in April, while last month was 118.19 million, i.e. a 20.14% decrease in just one year. The average amount of the contribution paid by beneficiary in Galicia was EUR 768.6. In addition, nine out of ten new contracts are of a temporary nature, while the growth of membership to Social Security in Galicia is smaller than the state average. The weight of wages in the gross domestic product follows far from the pre-crisis levels, by the low quality of the job generated, and because the bulk of employees have not yet begun to recover purchasing power. There are more busy people linked to seasonal sectors of the economy, but many of these contracts, in addition to being temporary, are half-day or hourly. During only the month of May last year, in Galicia, 22,000 contracts were signed with a duration of less than one week, representing a third of the total. That's the job they're creating and what the People's Party is all about. In the meantime, from 2008 until now the rise of wages to gross domestic product has increased from 47.9 to 45.1; while the profits of companies have increased from 44 to 44.6. The reality reveals that Galicia faces a serious problem of labour poverty: one in five employees does not have enough income to meet the basic needs of their families; some more than 153,000 people. And 33 percent of the occupied Greeks don't reach the millionaires. In 2007 in Galicia, the difference between the average of the three worst paid tranches and the three best paid was EUR 1,961. Six years later, in 2013, this salary gap rose to €2,458, i.e. 25% more. Part-time recruitment has become the only type of job that has grown since 2008. In Galicia, the increase in part-time employment was 26% between 2007 and 2013, from 115,600 workers to 145,000. Part-time employment is not generally a voluntary option, but the only way out for thousands of Greeks and especially Welsh people who work for hours, since 76% of part-time contracts are occupied by women. The National Institute of Statistics itself recently released information about EPA, in which it questions the extent to which part-time work is an election of persons or a form of underemployment, according to the expression used by the INE itself. In Galicia, seven out of ten Greeks who work part-time on a daily basis do so because of the absence of a full-time alternative. These policies to support the creation of part-time employment tend to undermine the position of women in the labour market and at the same time strengthen the role of caregiver. The fault of the success in these years was not of the working class, which, however, was the one who paid more for the consequences of this theft crisis, and cannot continue to pay now that the government talks about growth and the bank brings succulent benefits. I'm going to give support to this GNP that presents the Socialist Party, but really what should be demanded of the Government of the State is that unemployment benefit covers all the time of unemployment, because people are not unemployed because they don't want to work, they're unemployed because the government's ineptitude is unable to generate the conditions to increase employment in our country. So unemployment benefit, in my opinion, should be covered from the first day of unemployment until the worker finds a paid job again. Because most of the workers and workers who are currently unemployed over 50 years of age are out of the labour market. That's a reality of people with contributions for more than thirty years who will be left with a pension of misery because in the last few years of their working life they are unemployed because of a poorly led crisis and a government with anti-social policies, which only seeks the benefit of the great capital. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u78	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. Parliamentary Group of the Alternative Left Gallega, Mr Fajardo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u79	Good morning to all and to all. The truth is to come to speak at this time in the House about the de-protection of those who have lost their jobs and those who are unemployed is tremendously complicated when the drug dealer's friend has just said in this House that recovery is for everyone. How can it be said that recovery is for everyone when in Galicia only 32.6% of the unemployed receive some kind of benefit, and if we go to women this is only 26.7% of the unemployed? We are in a situation where people who lose their jobs are abandoned, who don't lose their jobs because they don't want to work or are unable to work, lose them because of the economic policies of a government that condemn them in many cases to indigentity. So in this country we're talking about that more than 185,000 unemployed people don't receive any kind of benefit. And this should be the immediate one, this should be the goal of any serious and responsible government. Those who have been in a hurry to rescue the banks, those who have gone to everyone's pocket to rescue the financial entities that have led the country to disaster, are unable to meet a social emergency like this, which is 185,000 people without any kind of benefit. There's a fact that for us it's tremendously incredible, incredible because it's not understood that you can't get it forward. The Foundation's report on May 1 points out that with only 0.3% of what we spend on rescuing the financial institutions of the whole state, we could rescue the set of unemployed and unemployed in this country who have no benefits. Therefore, those who were able to plunder the set of state citizens to save the bank do not understand that it is a priority to use only 0.3% of that amount to save families, save the unemployed and the unemployed. So we are in a situation of social emergency, and we must act decisively to overcome this situation. It's an element that must be immediately. Immediately, in addition, for collectives who are in absolutely regrettable situations. If the numbers of unemployed and unemployed who do not receive benefits are dramatic, if we move them to youth unemployment, to those under 30 years of age, we can point out that only one in eight unemployed under 30 years of age receives some kind of benefit. This is a tragedy, this is an unsustainable situation in a normal country, but, of course, in a normal country they would not continue to rule those who took everything, who ended everything and who even ended unemployment benefits. Because the cuts in unemployment benefits in the state as a whole are absolutely regrettable: 25,000 million cuts in unemployment benefit. 15% less this year's budget for unemployment benefits. So the people's politics is very clear, they lead society towards that society of the three-thirds, and one of them will be left without any kind of social protection. Besides, they do it at a time when there's not even a protective fence alternative to unemployment benefits. What does that mean? That when we condemn people to unemployment, with levels that will continue this way until at least 2025, we're saying, in addition, that they have no alternative protection, when they don't even have jobs. Because we have to make a clear and forceful statement: in this country there is work, which is not jobs. And so in this country we have to articulate some mechanism that protects all of us. And in this country that mechanism can be a basic income of equal and equal to all, or guaranteed work. Mechanisms that would allow the exclusion of a very important set of citizens, but also mechanisms that contribute to creating economies, increasing domestic demand and thus activating our market and getting out of this absolutely regrettable crisis situation. It seems that all these measures will only be taken into account when the People's Party is afraid. Because in the last two councils of the Union it seems they suddenly found out that people were homeless, it seems they suddenly discovered that people were unable to reach the end of the month, it seems they suddenly found that there were poor people. And when does the People's Party discover that? When election results are bad. And that is certainly regrettable. When you rule with most people, you demean yourself with reality, they're politics of the heartless, and they're the ones who act or don't show compassion in the face of injustice. So you must have on the table some project, some initiative beyond those they do for pure electoralism. And our intention is at this time to support this initiative, but, of course, mechanisms must be put together that allow 185,000 Greeks and Greeks who are unemployed not to receive a benefit from this situation. You have the chance to start changing things or to continue on that path of criminal policies in economic terms.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u80	Thank you, Mr. Fajardo. People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Tellado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u81	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, everyone. The truth is that it attracts attention that since the Alternative Left Galeg once again claim universal basic income, because the truth is that when its citizens arrive at the government they renounce it. We saw him in Madrid these days and we saw him also in Ferrol, where his candidate showed up promising a basic social income that now in that minimal program, in that minimal program he signed with the Socialist Party became finally a study. So, Mr Fajardo, what I have to tell you is that the state in this country spends 1,700 million euros, and well spent, on unemployment benefits and subsidies. Yes, sir, invest in €1.7 billion in unemployment benefits and subsidies. By going to the question, first of all, let me have a chat or as you say a joke, which is the term they've recently coined. The German Socialists are today concerned about employment, I would say that in this plenary you are concerned about a job, Mrs. Gallego, about Mr. Besteiro's job. And it must be acknowledged that this has a lot of merit, because it is a question that has raised the unanimity of the entire Socialist Parliamentary Group: officials and packagers agree in their desire to send Mr. Besterio to Madrid, something that they are so concerned about; some because they want to have him in the Senate and others because they want to send him as far as possible. I don't know what group you're in. [[Murmurs.]] In any case, I regret that this is the true concern of the Socialist Party in Galicia. On the subject of the initiative that brings us to this plenary, let me tell you, Mrs Gallego, that the Labour and Welfare Council executes 90% of its budget; it executes its budgets with a budget level of 90%. So it's absolutely false to the claim that you said you would save money that could be used for unemployment benefits. It's false for two reasons, basically: The level of budget execution of the Labour Council reaches 90%, as it commits the expenditure in the corresponding year and, where appropriate, proceeds to the payment at the time the obligation entered into is properly justified by the beneficiary. Now, but also when you ruled. Secondly, funds for active employment policies, even in the assumption that there are remnants, which do not exist, cannot be used for the payment of passive policies such as the payment of subsidies and benefits, because they are the responsibility of the State. Therefore, a double falsehood on which this initiative is based. By the way, I have to tell you that the good management of the active employment policies of the Galician Union allows there to be an increase in funds by 14% in 2015 over the previous year. In Galicia, there are 47,411 people who receive unemployment benefit, 57,000 who receive subsidies, 13,000 who receive the active income of inclusion, 1,900 who are in the employment activation programme and 11,000 people who receive Galician social integration income. That's the data, as much as you come here to twist them. And I have to tell you that in Galicia today we have lower levels of unemployment than those of four years ago, that's reality, when the Socialist Party's Government finally left in Madrid. We have less unemployment than four years ago. And last year unemployment fell by 8% in Spain, Galicia dropped by 10%. That's the data that bothers you so much. You speak and now claim the bipartite. It's just that in the last year of the bipartite unemployment increased in Galicia by 50,000 people in the last year. Between March 2008 and March 2009, in the last year of the Government of Alberto Núñez Feijóo, unemployment fell by 25,000. That's the reality: with you, I was going up in 50,000, with us unemployment is down to 25,000 people a year. And the data from Spain, Mrs Gallego: 357,000 unemployed less than a year ago, 357,000. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And today there are 592,000 more members of Social Security than a year ago, as much as it bothers you. We have specific programmes for unemployed over 45 years old, which is developing the Galician Union, and we have specific programmes dedicated to youth unemployment with 100 million euros in 2014. Therefore, unemployed people are a priority object in all active employment policies in Galicia this year, with splits that have grown above 17%. That's the reality. So his initiative is based on a point of departure which is a falsehood, that is to say there are resources left uninvestment, and the reality is that Galicia is better today than a year ago and Galicia is better now than four years ago when the Socialist Party was ruling in Spain. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u82	Thank you, Mr. Tellado. Author group of the non-legislation proposal, Mrs. Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u83	Thank you very much, Mr. President. First of all, I would like to thank the opposition parliamentary groups for their support for this non-legislative proposal that we have tabled today and to tell the BNG Parliamentary Group, which has tabled the amendment of addition, which, of course, we accept its amendment, because, among other things, it is inserted in the text of the non-legislative proposal itself when we talk about what is happening with the failure to implement the funds of the Labour and Welfare Council. As for Mr. Tellado, for look, Mr. Tellado, I am very fondly going to address you today. The truth is, you weren't very powerful today in the typical argumentary of the People's Party, I see it a bit down; I suppose it will be for the election results of May 24. Be careful that Mrs Prado is now rehabilitated one of these days because her spokespersons are also removed. For this reason of making makeup and aesthetics this of the People's Party, that some people will change so we don't realize that they're still making the same policies to keep increasing poverty and inequality in our country. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And, look, there's little concern about the fate of the people who are part of the Socialist Group, the Socialist Party, and they're a little more concerned, you're part of that group that supports the Government of Galicia, for the people we've been talking about here today, who are the people who are in poverty, inequality, who have a precarious job, that all this happens because since you've been ruling with the economic policies that you've made, it's the ones that have made the inequality increase in this country. It was you, it's your policies that make today more unemployed, more poverty and more precarious, yours. Because, look, the little economic recovery in our country is due to two things: at the price of oil and what the European Central Bank is doing at European level, not to the recipes of Mr Feijóo or Mr Rajoy. Because, look, Mr Feijóo's coming here boasts of the policies he is making and criticizes that the previous governments have left I don't know what debts you owe in Galicia, when he is the president of the Autonomous Community who most indebted to Galicia, who doubled the debt, that when he arrived in the government there were 9% of GDP in debt in Galicia and now there are more than 18%, he already has bandages that Mr Feijóo came here to assume that he was the president who most indebted the Autonomous Community. And, Mr Tellado, of course, we have to ask the Central Government for these EUR 387 million, because it owes them to Galicia, because it took them away from the unemployed and unemployed of Galicia. And you can't endure for more than 672,000 people at risk of poverty and social exclusion, that you have only 30% help to people who have no kind of benefit, that are the help of Risk and that two out of three unemployed people don't cover any kind of benefit in our country. Look, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, it was labour reform, it was the cuts in unemployment benefits, both on the one hand and on the other, it was their economic policies that made in this country more people unemployed, more poverty and more inequality than when Mr Feijóo arrived at the government. No matter how much they advertise, no matter how much they change the communication spokespersons of the People's Party, the reality is well-tempered, the citizens know it, and that's why they voted what they voted for on May 24. Luckily...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u84	Thank you, Mrs Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u85	...unfortunately, the PSOE was the second force, Mr. Tellado...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u86	End, end, Mrs Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u87	...in Galicia. And fortunately, the left goes over in votes to the right. So...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u88	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u89	...as soon as you're late...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u90	Thank you, Mrs. Gallego, your time is up. [[Mrs. Gallego Calvar speaks words that are not perceived.]] [[Applause]] G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Alternative Galaga de Lefta, at the initiative of D. Ramón Vázquez Díaz and D. José Javier Ron Fernández, on the demands to be made by the Government of Greece to the Galicia Foundation Social Work, Afoundation, of Abanca, in connection with the announcement of the closing of the School of Child Education of the Sacred Heart in Lugo and the Center of Children's Education of Campelo in Poio
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u91	This motion for a non-law amendment by the Socialist Parliamentary Group was tabled.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u92	Mr Vázquez has the floor for the defence of this proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u93	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good morning to all and to all. On the 8th day of this month, the ex-presidents and managers of the former Greek boxes were sitting in the accused's bank for the crimes of improper administration, unfair administration and fraud, all of them tremendously serious crimes. The all-powerful directors who recently accumulated photos even with the president of Galicia were considered the "promenmens" of the Greek society. To which it would be – in the words of the Greek President – "the great financial entity of Galicia" ended up being rescued with 9,000 million public euros. Finally, this large entity in Galicia was sold by EUR 1 billion to a Venezuelan bank. The resulting entity, Abanca, declared a profit of EUR 1,100 million in 2014. It's a perfect robbery. It's an unscrupulous robbery. A robbery that included the sale of preferenceers, which left almost 40,000 bankers in the ruin. A robbery that included the closure of 104 offices along and across our country, a robbery that involved the dismissal or elimination of 4,000 jobs that were lost and hundreds of daily reductions. Well, in spite of all this, the German Government has blocked and prevented the functioning of the parliamentary investigation commission set up to clarify and purify the responsibilities in the face of this gross breakdown. But these facts are already known by all of us in our country. On the contrary, there are few words spoken and few reflections on their fair measure of the falsification affected by the privatization of the Social Work of the old boxes. A Social Work created with savings for decades by thousands of Greek savers and which brings together a good part, a fundamental part of Galicia's artistic and architectural heritage, from our country. A Social Work that gathers 1,343 works of art in the form of paintings, sculptures, engravings and photographs of the main artists of our country and from outside our country; artists such as Castelao, Lugrís, Quessada, Isaac Díaz Pardo, Maruja Mallo... –it would be impossible to name them all–. A bibliographic fund that includes 69 countless, 11 facsimiles, 2,350 historical works from the 16th to the 20th century. An architectural heritage that includes 97 emblematic buildings of great historical and heritage value. All that was from everyone and all the Greeks. All this heritage of Galicia was broken down along with the old Welsh boxes. But in addition to this very important and fundamental part of our heritage, the Social Work of the old boxes included children's education centers, major schools, libraries, immigrant care centers, social centers, student residences, theatres, educational centers, etc. All this has been handed over and turned into what we now know as Abanca Depth. Mr. Escotet, the owner of the financial institution, who bought the old boxes at the balance price, made a commitment to maintain the Social Work through this Funding of the Abanca Foundation. Even Mr. Feijóo made sure that his activity was guaranteed and secured for the next thirty years. A truly important promise. But the reality, the reality of the facts is that the Abanca Foundation is already dismantling the network of inherited childhood schools from the old boxes. Of the old four schools of childhood education that had the Social Work, there's only one left at present if it's not remedied. First, the Children's School of Monforte was closed, leaving dozens of families at stake. Now, this year, in recent times, the Abanca Foundation announces the imminent closure of two fundamental childhood schools for the educational communities it addresses. We are talking about the imminent closure of the School of Child Education of the Sacred Heart, in Lugo, and of the Center of Child Education Campelo, in Poio. Two essential centres for the schooling and the learning process of about seventy children and girls from 0 to 6 years old, but also two fundamental centers for reconciling family and work life from seventy families. These are, in addition, two centers that are managed and coordinated with the Galician Union, which, as always, has demonstrated its complicit attitude in the face of this imminent closure. A closure of services that – as we say – is essential for many families, at a time in addition to a special economic and crisis crisis for many families in our country. Last Thursday, a meeting was planned and committed by the highest responsible of the Abanca Foundation, Mr. Miguel Ángel Escotet, the bank owner's cousin, a planned meeting with the affected families, but finally he didn't even deserve to appear, leaving them thrown away. What about the German Government you're doing? Then shut up and look to the other side, as always happens, especially when fundamental rights of the Greek families are raised. What is the Government doing in front of this imminent closure of children's schools? Nothing, the reality is that nothing, shut up and look the other way. And what do families ask for? First of all, dialogue, they want to be able to sit down and talk to the highest representatives of the Foundation and study a solution that, of course, does not go through the closure of this childhood school. The model of what government Feijóo is working on is, of course, a fully privatising public service management model. Even today, the President of the Government in response to the question from the Parliamentary Group of the Gaga de Left Alternative, recognized without any kind of blunder that the private model of management in the field of education was a reference to him. In the field of children's schools this translates into the creation, in the drive of children's schools through foundations, such as the Ortega Foundation, which is opening child education centers and which even plans to open a child's education centre in Lugo, near the child's school that closes. Let's hope this fact has nothing to do with the imminent closure. There are about 3,000 children in Galicia who are left without a place of childhood education. So it doesn't look like children's education squares are over in our country. There are over a hundred children in the Town Hall of Lugo who are out of place in the children's education schools in Galician Union. Therefore, it does not seem reasonable, it does not seem to us that a financial entity that has been rescued with the savings of thousands of Greeks, which has left thousands of workers at stake and which, of course, disappears as a fundamental tool for the dynamization of our economic fabric, to transmit liquidity and, of course, to finance the thousands of projects that could be taken forward at a time like this above, if we allow ourselves to close fundamental public services for citizenship that have been building over the decades – as I said at first – with savings and the efforts of many Greeks. So the initiative we bring here today is very concrete. First, the Government has to assume its obligation, given that they are centres managed by the Galician Union, to demand the Abanca Foundation to keep these two centers open, the center of the Sacred Heart and the center of Campelo in Poio, because it is a necessity for families and because it is an obligation of the Greek Government to allow and favour these centres to remain open, as it has committed not only the president of the Banca entity, but also the president of all the Greeks and all the Greeks. A second very specific point, because not only are we concerned about the situation of these two centres, we are concerned about the situation of all the services that manage the Abanca Foundation and that in many cases they are being precarried and abandoned, before we proceed to their closure. So what we demand is that the representatives of the Greek Government in the Patroado da Afondación demand the constitution of this patronate at a meeting and of course wonder what the intentions of the Abanca Foundation with regard to the social services it manages, the socio-educational services it manages, and achieves that commitment of maintenance in the future. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u94	Thank you, Mr. Vázquez. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Burgo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u95	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good morning, gentlemen. The Socialist Parliamentary Group will, of course, support this non-law proposal, a non-law proposal based on the defence of families, both Poio and Lugo, which are affected and which support the claims that are being made publicly, even with demonstrations, the families of the two localities. And we support her because the two infantry schools are absolutely necessary, both in Poio and in Lugo, as was necessary the service of Monforte in Infanta Elena, who also closed without being able to stop that situation. Therefore, we fully agree with the proposal of non-law, as with the proposal made by Mr. Vázquez of all the very recent history of the Greek boxes. If it is true that we must remember and remember it: it is 9,000 million euros that the Greek society has given the old boxes, therefore the Bank, and the sale of these boxes for a price at that moment quite ironic. Therefore, these are essential services that carried out the foundation of the old boxes, today to Afundation, and that there is no single reason for them not to remain in operation. Yes, in any case, there's one, to which Abanca says there is and that we are totally at odds with her, which is that they are not profitable. But, of course, the services that are provided from a foundation must not be profitable. On the other hand, they are not – as families say – because there is no good management or good propaganda from these squares. In any case, we also wonder what the Union does about it, because the Union – I remind its lords – is part of the founding patronage. I mean, not only does he have an obligation as a Greek Government that a foundation as important as this one is making his services disappear, but it is part of the Patronate, with an important number, that you can also join his votes to other members of the Patronate, and they would have a clear majority. So there are two responsibilities: as a government and as members of the Patronate. What are they doing? Absolutely nothing. What they're doing is they're letting these services disappear and the Affordment, of Abanca, do what seems convenient to you. I know well – his lordships would understand –, I know better the case of Lugo than Poio, and I can tell them – in Poio surely the same thing happens – that in Lugo is an absolutely necessary service, because the Galician Union only has a child's school of its property, and I say nothing but its property management. There is an absolute shortage of these services in the city, so that the council has seen itself to create, in this case, four infant schools, which keep without having to do so, but only keep without help, because the board has refused, as always, to offer some help to the council. It doesn't help the Town Hall, but it does help the Abanca Founding and itself helps Abanca maintain and change these activities for others who, they say, will have more profitability, economic profitability. The situation seems to us absolutely, of course, unacceptable, as unacceptable is the position of the Council of Galicia. And we're making such an amendment just to add in if Mr Vázquez would like to accept it. We are going to pass this non-law proposal in any way, but we believe that all negotiations fail, if you do any negotiation, that's the first one, because I'm sure that none will be done; if the Board says there is no possibility because it's private and because all these things happen, because the Board negotiates with the Foundation the assignment of ownership and management of these two services, these two infant schools, and that they are part of the public heritage, the Government managed by the Government, to preserve the rights of families and also so that two establishments that are fundamental in these two localities are not missing. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u96	Thank you, Mrs. Burgo. Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Iglesias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u97	Good morning, everyone. Thank you, President. What about Lugo, PP gentlemen? They seem to be mad at this county. There is no stop to initiatives in this Chamber claiming services and rights for citizens of this Greek city; it is truly impressive. Because on 5 March 2013 the Parliamentary Group of the Glaga Alternative on the Left approved by committee and unanimously, i.e., with its votes, an initiative by the Parliamentary Group of the Alternative of Left Galaga urged the Board to speed up management for the acquisition of land and to begin rapidly the construction of a new CIP in the neighborhood of the Sacred Heart of Lugo; unanimity. But the Union should not give itself – I say – given the situation of the matter at present. The truth is, to me it's not funny, and I don't think the people of Lugo either. The center today is about to fall and the new center is neither known nor expected, so we see him claiming. This is why this issue is returning to Parliament, because this is the attitude of the People's Party towards citizenship and also towards this Parliament. The president comes here, doesn't answer the questions he's asked, he makes headlines so that the press all that's up there and the next day don't get the question from the parliamentary group that makes it or the expected answer. I mean, they take our hair better. Besides, they don't fulfill, they don't really lead to their commitments. It's amazing. The CIP of the Sacred Heart is the fruit of a transfer agreement signed in the 1980s by the Galician Caixa Social Work for a period of thirty years, which this period ends in 2018. That'll end the life of this center if the deterioration you're suffering doesn't do it before. And I already tell you and I urge you again and again: this despite the unanimous approval of the initiative of the AGE Parliamentary Group and the fact that you have received from the Lugo Council proposals as regards the assignment of land. The Town Hall of Lugo approves and agrees to keep and arrange for this centre. And, in addition, a member of the Government in function, after the election, expresses his astonishment by recalling that the 9,000 million euros with which the citizens would contribute, paid by the neighbours of the Sacred Heart, of the Pyringalla, of the Olga Ace, of all neighborhoods and parishes, is to rescue the financial entity that controls the sinking rather than for the maintenance and improvement of the Social Work of the savings boxes. The closure of the centres like this, and of this in particular, means the loss of public employment, the loss of a public service, which is also a service that favors and helps the co-responsibility and employment reconciliation for families, but, of course, for the families of the working class, the class that you pass from it as He passes. It would be appropriate to take into account the importance of this service to policies that concern you so much: birth policies, because they are benefits that directly affect the quality of life of women in the working class – I repeat – and that they go for society a little bit, a little more equal. So the Joint Group will support this proposal. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u98	Thank you, Mrs Iglesias. Parliamentary Group of the Galician Nationalist Block, Mr. Pombo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u99	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I have already announced the affirmative vote of the BNG Parliamentary Group, among other things, for having put forward initiatives that are consistent with what is required in this. Indeed, the Founding announced early in the month the closure of two infantry schools, one in Lugo, the Sacred Heart, and another in Campelo, in Poio; one that in theory has 43 squares and that of Poio that could even house 75 more squares, that is, we're talking about 125 squares that are intended to be suppressed. Two essential centers for schooling and the learning process – I say – of around one hundred twenty children and girls were in optimal conditions of use. Two essential centers also for a fundamental service – as has been said here –: the service of reconciling working and family life of –I say – 120 families. Essentials for maintaining jobs in these two infantry schools as well; currently eleven jobs, but which could be more if the full performance worked by absorbing the demand they could cover. The Founding is the owner of these schools and has just confirmed the closure of the Sacred Heart of Lugo by July 31st and Poio for the next course. The founding justifies the closure on both sides by saying that there is a low demand and by saying that it will only promote initiatives that are economically viable. Of course, mothers and fathers affected by the service of these two kindergartens are outraged by the closure of them, by the decision that took the Founding and for four basic reasons: First of all, because it's a lie that there's no demand. Place has more than a hundred places that can't go to kindergartens; in Galicia there are about three thousand. There could be more demand if there was more advertising, if there were more help and if more squares were offered, but there was no. A second reason why families are outraged is because less than a year ago, on June 26, last year, the president of the board announced an agreement with the current owner of Abanca, so it guarantees the stability and continuity of the Social Work of the old Greek savings boxes, and these children's schools are part of this Social Work. There is another reason: in less than a year, they want to get rid of these two schools, which form – I say – part of this Social Work of the old boxes, built thirty-seven years ago, thanks to the saving of thousands of Greek families, thanks to the benefit of hundreds of houses built and that brought this fundamental service to this benefit. And one last reason, because in the case of the Sacred Heart of Lugo, the closing is announced just when families don't have the opportunity to sue in other kindergartens, there are few – one in the Union and four more municipalities – and therefore they remain a little helpless. Of course, the BNG Parliamentary Group coincides with the indignation of all these families and demands that these two schools be maintained. You don't understand the Parliamentary Group as if you can agree that a healthy bank with 9,000 million euros in the pocket of all citizens, a bank that just announced in the first year 1,157 million more than it cost; that is, you paid for selling this bank, instead of getting paid, and now you're told that two kindergartens are not profitable. Something inconceivable! Indeed, the German Parliament is part of the Patronate, and we believe that it has to demand from those who have done this total economic ballatage that does not take forward what they intend to do. We announce – I say – support for the maintenance of the fundamental service for more than one hundred and twenty Greek families in Poio and Lugo, that Abanca and Afondación maintain a service that is fundamental to these families and that must remain fundamental to the neighborhood of the Sacred Heart of Lugo and to the Town Hall of Poio. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u100	Thank you, Mr. Pombo. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs Piñeiro.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u101	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, gentlemen. Galega de Left Alternative Group, May 2013, proposed non-law on this same stage, defended by me in the People's Parliamentary Group, where the AGE Parliamentary Group asked to suspend all educational concerts with private schools. AGE's website, where they attack and accuse the People's Party of destroying a universal right by concertating classes. He just repeated the same word now, Mr. Voicer, and Mrs. Yolanda Díaz repeated it. Galego Nationalist Block, 2011 electoral programme in the generals, and electoral programme of the Galego Nationalist Block of Autonomicals, where it says that the goals in the field of education, the second, the second objective in the field of education is "removal of concerts established in particular in education". The Socialist Party takes all the legislation by pronouncing and voting against educational concerts, by active, passive, by peripheral. I'm stunned, gentlemen! I'm amazed because they suddenly give up their greatest milkmotive in the educational field, which are the educational concerts. It must be something more serious and try not to confuse citizens, going, besides, against their own principles of political formations, but it seems to be fashionable today. First, it seems to us, in the People's Parliamentary Group, that this initiative is a pure exercise of political opportunism and that it is worth everything to them in their task of wearing the government of Mr Feijóo. Look, the position of the People's Party on this subject, on the theme of the concerts, was, and will always be consistent and in favour of providing a quality and educational service to the student of Greek in public schools. And where not possible, have concerted centres or units that guarantee the same educational quality. And we think and we always think the same thing. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Spokesman of AGE, the observer who is not willing rapporteur of the Committee of Inquiry into the boxes of the Galician Parliament, you know, because you proposed a pattern, a pattern of those proposed by the Galician Parliament, was proposed to the AGE authorities, that the Foundation Patronate had just met in December and agreed on a strategic plan with three lines of action: higher education, active aging and development of people through culture. You ask the boss that they proposed if at that same meeting no one talked about the same subject, and no one appreciated the fit of the children's schools in this strategic plan, not even the two patterns proposed by the Socialist Party, nor the pattern proposed by the AGE. Why didn't they move their worries there, if they have people who can transfer them directly, and they come to charge death to the Galician Union and the People's Party? But, ladies and gentlemen, you knew that and you knew that there were people at that time in the Patroado. Do you know that the Galician Union has no capacity to decide on the Affirmation of Abanca? No more than the Socialist Party or AGE can have. But if he acts with responsibility and guarantees educational attention to the families affected. As for the Children's School of the Sacred Heart of Lugo, this is a non-compulsory private education centre, in which the Union has no competence. And yet, the Labour Council was interested and contacted Abanca officials to find out about the situation and provide alternatives to these affected families. And, Mr. Vázquez, you must have been confused by day, on Thursday there was no meeting of those responsible for the Founding with the parents, it was Wednesday when those in Abanca proposed to these families relocate them to other centers and even paid them the part of the quota of their schooling if they exceeded that they had proposed at the previous center. By the way, Mrs. Churches, a little bit already, which is not this subject, tell you that it is not true that the Town Hall of Lugo will give up the land for school, they are not yet given. As for Poio's childhood school, another private center that had three concerted units, and with 75 squares only had 25 requests. They don't, of course, follow the ratios for concerts, and I think it's incredible, Mr Vázquez, especially from you, isn't it what you asked for, that concerts have been canceled? Well, this concert is cancelled precisely because it doesn't meet the ratios required to be agreed upon by the Galician Union.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u102	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u103	Finally, President, saying that the responsibility of the Council is not to hold concerts, but to provide these families with sufficient squares in educational centres in the area, and that's what they're working on. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u104	Thank you, Mrs. Piñeiro. Author group of the non-law proposition, Mr. Vázquez. From the stage, if possible.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u105	Good morning, Mr. Castineira. I'm a master, and I never liked to pass by; I didn't like it when I was a student, either. But Mr. Castineira is a conceler in Lugo, a spokesperson of the municipal group, was a candidate for the mayor's office, and in the face of such an important topic as maintenance, the survival of a child's school in his municipality, along with Poio's council, he remained absent from the intervention. There clearly shows the concern of a public representative, who will only take the picture in the elections, but then when we have to make the silence disappears. Absent as it has been during the entire process of claiming hemodynamics services. You're the absent representative, and the truth is, so it goes. As for Mrs. Piñeiro's intervention, it's nothing but a bundle of lies, it's going to allow me to see the president. Because he didn't say the first truth, which could be acceptable. That seems to me to understand Mrs. Piñeiro in her speech which defends that the Galician Council assumes the management of private children's schools. So that seems to me to understand, because if it is shown according to our argument that infant schools, like all public services, must be of direct management, of public management, of welcome. That, by the way, there's only one in Lugo, there's only one public school in the Galician Union, and there's more than a hundred families left out of place in that county. That's the reality. I don't understand, then, why do you say you defend the public service of children's schools? Because if you defend him by putting only a child's school, the subject is really hard. You're telling me about the celebration of a Patroado meeting in December, and we haven't said anything, in December 2014, is that Abanca announced the closing of the infant schools in June, in June. That's right, of course, when the course's over, with no room for manoeuvre so families can activate solutions. Of course, that's the usual modus operandi when services are closed: don't leave room for manoeuvre. By the way, if you enter the Web page of the Children's School Network Blue Chicken, there, in the Lugo section, you can see what appears in the School of the Sacred Heart. I suppose something will have to look at the Galician Union when it appears on the Blue Chicken School Network; of course, private, yes, private, as most of it holds the Galician Union. Private as the Concerted Campelo Center, arranged, and a concert that will disappear and will no longer provide a fundamental service for families. It's a tremendous argument: first, they privatize services, defend the model of concerted management, and then the service disappears when they delete the concert and leave families at the stake, finally, instead of being concerted, be absolutely private. And we are the incoherents. It is tremendous to hear these arguments, of course, so poor. We're going to accept the amendment of the Socialist Group as a way of solving the problem, but I'm very afraid that it will soon serve given the failure of the Greek Government's will to assume its responsibility and allow families, close to 100 families, to have a child school for their children. It's regrettable. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u106	Thank you, Mr. Vázquez. Yes, Mr. Castineiras, what do you want the word for? [[Mr. Castineira Broz utters words that are not perceived.]] Yes, sir, article 76. You have three minutes. [[Applause]] Sorry, I know the regulation, uh, I know the regulation, perfectly. Article 76, three minutes, point. We have to read the Rules of Procedure. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] We have to read the Rules of Procedure. [[Murmurs.]] Proceed, Mr. Castineiras.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u107	Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you, Mr. Losada for moderate and trying to aspire to be President of Parliament. Thank you, thank you... Man, relax that no one's messed with you. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] But now that there seems to be some Member who likes to pass the list and doesn't know where we are the others, of course, if he doesn't see you in your seat he already thinks you don't exist. In the opposition you are, Mr. Losada, for now here. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Well... it doesn't seem so. Look, if we talk, and I wanted to talk to you and tell you, first of all, I'm on the stage... to do that reminds you of old times, remember old times of passing by, actually, ready to go. But don't forget that Parliament has more seats than this one, and one can sit in more places than this one. Do not forget, first error. I don't have to tell you where, but I was here. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] It's funny, for example, here next to the companion. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u108	Quiet. Quiet, please. Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u109	But what's important and what's of interest to Lugo's neighbours... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u110	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u111	...and the neighborhood of the Sacred Heart is what everyone did. That's why, indeed,... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u112	Silence! Silence, please, it's on the turn of allusions.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u113	Castilian as a concelerator and as a deputy... [[Protests.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u114	Three minutes, I'm controlling time. You're entitled to three minutes. Quiet, please! if I don't give you more time later, if I don't give you more time. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Allusions are entitled to three minutes, let me finish the allusion. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Read the Rules of Procedure, read the Rules of Procedure. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u115	Mr. President, I think the conscience bothers them, it pains them what they haven't done. And some who are now arriving at the city hall I hope that they will be able to... [[Mrs. Martínez García speaks words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u116	Quiet, please. No, no, I'll call her in order. Mrs. Martínez, call her in order.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u117	...that they are able to look at the minutes and see how in April 2014 there is an initiative approved unanimously, where the mayor committed himself to making managements not only for school, but for all the installations of the Sacred Heart, and in October 2014 the request is reiterated. And what happens is that what they're not able to do they blame others. There is absolutely no single step taken by the Town Hall of Lugo to acquire those lands or to arrive at a negotiation, those lands and facilities; the same as to make the land available to the board to make the new Sacred Heart school. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u118	It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u119	Not a single step, not a single square meter fully committed by unanimity of all those in the corporation to make the land available.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u120	Thank you, your time is up. It's over. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] No, no, no, sorry, sorry, article 76 refers to allusions and allusions have no replica. You read the Rules of Procedure. [[Protests.]] No, sir, no, sir, no replica. No, no, you have to read the Rules of Procedure. No, I'm sorry, allusions don't have a replica. I'm not giving the floor. No, no, I'm sorry, I'm not giving the floor. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] No, no, I know him perfectly well. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] No, Mr. Losada, please. Mr. Losada, please, no, no, no, nothing. You go home. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Group... We continue with the non-law proposition. [[Protests.]] I'm sorry, no! Well, gentlemen, I'm clear on the rules. [[Interruptions.]] I'm clear, I'm clear. [[Protests.]] No, no, sorry, allusions don't have replicas, I'm sorry. [[Interruptions.]] No, they don't. They don't have a replica. [[Interruptions.]] No, there isn't. [[Protests.]] No, no, it doesn't. [[Protests.]] It doesn't proceed, Mr. Losada, don't complicate yourself with this. [[Murmurs.]] It's different, different, it's been called three times, three times. [[Interruptions.]] [[Protests.]] Let's get this over with. Let's get this over with. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] In any case, you may, if you wish, make a claim after the presidency. But in this case I am conducting the debate and I am interpreting the Rules of Procedure. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] No, it doesn't. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Next proposal is not law. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of D. Cosme Eladio Pombo Rodríguez, on the performances to be carried out by the Government of Galicia for the 2015-2016 course in relation to the textbooks
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u121	For the defence of this non-law proposal Mr. Pombo has the floor. Mr. Pombo, whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u122	Take it easy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u123	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I've seen that the People's Party has given the Welsh public bank to Abanca, and I see that it congratulates the 1,500 million you won in the first year and that it commends you to the social services you're providing in Lugo and Poio. That's the defense of the People's Party. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] We're changing the tone and we're going to the famous system of free universal loan of textbooks for everyone and all the Greeks that defend the Galician National People's Block today here in Parliament. Let us make a little history: the Statute recognizes the right of every student in Greece to a basic and compulsory, public, quality, Mr President, and free of charge, Mr President. History of this right: "In order to promote equal opportunities, it is necessary to instill in the student values of solidarity and tolerance, care and conservation. That's why the loan system was put in place to make it possible for free in compulsory stages as a fundamental service," Celso Currás was the author of these words. But it was with a German Government with nationalist participation when this free loan system was established universally to promote freeness in compulsory stages. But here's how Feijóo, absent – as whenever such interesting problems are dealt with – with his arrival to the government removed the freeness of the textbooks to more than 70% of the Greek families – I would say to a hundred percent – saying that we will "change the loan systems from the textbooks to guarantee free", Mr. President's words. With the arrival of Mr. Feijóo to the government, the right established for all students approaching the public education was removed; the right – I say – to the freeness of textbooks by means of universal and free loan. In the midst of a crisis, indeed, Mr. Feijóo removed the fundamental right to freeness recognized by law. Faced with a free universal loan model for 100 percent of the school population, costing 73 million euros for all legislation with nationalist government, the People's Party cut off the rights acquired by the method they called "free solidarity", which cost the same or more, but it was not for 100 percent, but it was only for part of the population. With free solidarity everyone pays, but some receive a 90-euro aid and one minority a 180-euro aid, the rest to be paid. This plan had many advantages – which Mr. Feijóo encouraged – they said: first, "causes less spending to administration," false; second, "allows more funds to education", totally false, since the entrance of Mr. Feijóo's Government about 400 million euros but cut; third, "allows to create" – "beyk– "biblioteques in the houses, facilitates the work of the teacher and students get the property of the books," said Mr. Feijóo, so I see these last three now towards the next year is not worth it. And even the previous Education Counsellor, Counsellor, came to say that he "provoked higher academic performance of students." In this 2014-2015 course with the implementation of LOMCE, in a hasty and contrary to the opinion of the majority of the education community in Galicia, BNG once again claimed that the German Government would resume the universal and free loan of textbooks to guarantee the freeness of compulsory education in our country. Unfortunately, the Education Council has chosen to maintain that system that they call "free solidarity", which does not guarantee freedom for all students, and is even more expensive for the Educational Administration than the universal loan system. And here we are now facing the next course 2015-2016 and the Council takes two orders, the 21st of May, which they also call "the solidarity fund of textbooks", and the 22nd of May, which is help for the acquisition of textbooks, which is to cut more than three million euros with regard to the aids given this year – more than three million dollars–. We know that now – he has announced us – they will give a new check of 40 euros, the base of cutting the previous one now comes down. With these two orders, the Education Council continues to cut even further the help for textbooks, continues to cut the right to a free education for more and more pupils and students, and intends to continue with the hasty and trapped application of a LOMCE who was born dead and has numbered days, so numbered because only Galicia is trying to apply it. Today it comes from the press that all communities are crying out because LOMCE has already been withdrawn, but the last of the Philippines stays here with the flag of no one knows who. With the application of these two orders that you intend to impose on the Education Council, first of all, what you can do is to carry with much more bureaucratic and administrative work the professor at times when he has no time to do it. That's the great dignity that the People's Party always has in mind about the teacher's work; with much that it has to do in the training of the student because it seems that he has to devote himself to bureaucracy. In addition, download the teacher's responsibility to choose which students will be without textbooks from the solidarity fund, because, Counsellor, you know very well – as much as I say otherwise here – that there are no books in that solidarity fund. Because last year the board itself recommended to the centers that they don't change books and there were many centres that didn't even have any school books. So, that's why the books that were paid last year will be filled with books completely false libraries. Unless – let's say – the aim of the Council is that this background of books is paid by someone other than the Council, the parents themselves, and they are filled. In addition, teachers will be those who tell parents and mothers that they will not receive economic or financial aid or from the bookbed yet meet the requirements set out in their own order. We understand that the right to compulsory and free education will continue to be reduced to more and more students. A real purpose! The BNG has always defended returning to the universal loan of textbooks, and as the BNG has also defended it for most opposition groups, all trade unions, and the immense practice of most of the Galician educational community. The parliamentary group, of course, believes that the Council should listen to this community and should listen to what are being claimed by the ANPA Welsh, and, first of all, take the agreement to impose more administrative staff for all the Greek public centres; secondly, what the ANPAs demand, that they keep the same textbooks used in the current course for the next course, because it makes no sense to spend more money than their parents do not have for books that in the next course will have expired; and thirdly, take advantage of the new course to organize the return to the universal and free loan system of textbooks. For that reason, we present this PNL, which only calls upon the board of Galicia to derogate the Order of May 21 on the bottom of solidarity textbooks, a fund that will not be able to supply books with the existing demand, and also to derogate the Order of May 22 from aid for books, increasingly cut and that will not guarantee universal gratuity for all the student of Greece. We ask that the books be maintained – as parents ask –; that the implementation of the universal loan system in Galicia be guaranteed as the only way to comply with the right of all Germans and all Greeks to be entitled to public, universal and free education; to guarantee in all centres the administrative staff sufficient to carry out administrative and bureaucratic tasks; and, finally, to postpone the request once again, to postpone the application of LOMCE in Galicia in the next school course, which is what they are asking not only the entire Greek educational community, but the practice of all the autonomous communities of Spain. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u124	Thank you, Mr. Pombo. Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Iglesias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u125	Thank you, President. You say that the new system of book distribution is for pupils of families with less income; part of that is the first mistake. A public service and maintained with the taxes of citizenship – the highest of the richest or the null of the most disadvantaged – must be universally free. Yes, it is, according to the criteria of equity that is his own, universally free. Besides, Mr. Counsellor – since you are here – this system of book banks is a messy mess, is that it's an uncommunal damage to the product of a disastrous management. Before June 19 – it has passed – the students who had school checks in the third and fourth primary, and in the second and fourth ESO, they will have to deliver their manuals. And this obliges the centres not to change them, and these books are delivered obsoletely in the current LOMCE standard. From Education they say that centers can change textbooks in second, fourth and sixth primary, as well as in the first and third ESO, but not in the others, which would mean emptying books banks. Despite this, there are many centres that have requested to change texts to adapt them to new content, because last year in many cases Inspection has not allowed them to be renewed. The ANPA, the unions, the directors, the cloisters have manifested, and continue to manifest, their rejection to the leading book banks. And everyone, everyone, all agree to claim the return to the universal loan. But the coincidence is not given in the claims, the representatives of the mother's associations ask not to change the books the next course, while the directors of the centers insist on the need to adapt the manuals to the new contents of LOMCE, since the others are obsolete. The trade unions in the sector regret – and this too I am very sorry – that all bureaucratic and management work falls on the teaching staff. Masters have already changed diapers, Mr. Counselor, really, and tending disability when we're not ready for that, are we? That's what I lived for, eh! Really, we do everything. And now they want to load us with bureaucratic management of this. This will create enormous chaos – it is generating it – by charging an improper teaching job, which is the administrative one, about the teachers. Education says –textual words – that "will solve the problems that arise", improvising, that is jenundium, and advances that families with per capita income below 9,000 euros will have at least – and I quote textually – "one part of the books", a part of the books for free. This makes me suspect that the freeness of school material in public education is not guaranteed. What a read, Counselor! The bank implemented in four primary and secondary courses will live with direct aid of up to 180 euros in families with lower income in the other six courses of the compulsory stage and with the digital backpack. Look, all this reading was solved by universalizing the right to free school material, which also understands more than textbooks, I always say. That's how we would be guaranteeing equity and not stigmatizing the most disadvantaged. Citizenship, Counsellor, brings revenue to the State's archives on the basis of its income and assets for, among other things, the maintenance and improvement of the welfare state, and for it to have universally free public services, in which all and all have guaranteed equal opportunities and also not to be discriminated against or even positive by the social class to which they belong. Both families that make up more taxes and those who don't even contribute are entitled to all and all to benefit from the universal gratuity that must offer a public service. We support the initiative. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u126	Thank you, Mrs Iglesias. Parliamentary Group of the Alternative Left Gallega, Mr Ron.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u127	Good morning to all and to all. Let us begin, firstly, by saying that Feijóo, the president, confuses what is schooling with teaching, which is precisely what article 27.4 of the Constitution says: "Basic teaching is compulsory and free", not schooling, but teaching. And, therefore, the guarantee of the basic right to education rests in freeness, and therefore the said free character must be extended not only to textbooks, but also – as the people's valet requested in the specific report of the year 2013 – to the different teaching material indispensable for a proper development of the teaching-learning process: dictionaries, atlas, maps, reading books, etc. And we're not going to talk here about how solidarity should be effective, through, logically, progressive and truly redistributive financial solidarity, and not in the deception of listening to the PP, which has made the current system, less effective and less efficient, more costly, and which violates the precept of freeness and therefore even the right to public education. Because it only needs to be seen that the beneficiaries since 2008 to 2013 have decreased by 36%. In addition, if we calculate the budgets for aid systems and the loan system, we see that practically sharing the same budget, 46.9 % of the budget for the aid system, only 34.4% of the students enrolled, while with a loan system, which has an budget of 53.1%, benefited 65.6 % of the student, twice. So your system is neither universal nor free. And everywhere over a hasty, confusing, unconsensual application, or dialogue with the LOMCE educational community. We've already told them to be active and passive. Besides, there's a strong likelihood that LOMCE is a short-term law, and you want to get the educational community to become totally involved in something that you might be able to go back in less than a year. So it seems to us that we are irresponsible. You, in addition, run away from your direct responsibility and have absolutely all about the educational centers, everything, as far as the decision of textbooks is concerned. And so you are favoring unnecessary tensions within the educational community between teaching needs, on the one hand, and the needs of families, on the other. Therefore, irresponsibility. Besides, you're doing what you're doing is vamping an initiative by the book bank, an initiative that was born in a very concrete way, to respond to some of the time-consuming difficulties that were being given because of your decision to eliminate the universal loan of books. There the bookstore was born. Or do you, with this book bank initiative, want to recognize that they have been wrong and that their model is more expensive, less efficient, less efficient, and that it violates the right to a public education worthy of quality? Probably something like that. The book bank, in addition, part of an initial ejac: the lots are not complete, because the previous course's help was not enough, and that's why you come to the top of asking for the donation of that material, to some families who were plowed to face the payment of the books and who had to resort to a book bank just to help each other in solidarity. But you don't run away from responsibility, you guarantee freeness, the universality of education. That's what the Greek families want. Besides, the Council, you make exclusive rest about the directions of the center, absolutely everything. Moreover, access to the book bank rests again on discrimination, which is income. We've already said, we have to look at where to look, in progressive redistributive funding up, in taxes, but not in access to schools. There can be no discrimination in schools. So in addition, there's something really amazing because there's a time when you say, "That's right, in the case of the new incorporations of the student once he starts school, the center will hand him the books if there's them in his solidarity fund." What if there aren't? There is no economic departure here, no indication of it. Nothing in this order. So, if there's them, it's a little dangerous muletilla, isn't it? In addition to the rest of the courses, in the other order, the coffer – because it has to be called – is kept, the coopero in the field of textbooks, since the counties – it has been said here – are, of course, insufficient to acquire all the textbooks. Many students and many students are left out of the program. And besides, it still does not consider itself free in supplementary material, of which today they announce 40 euros. About 40 euros that are probably gone by now...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u128	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u129	...out. And besides, that you certainly won't make it free and universal for all students, because that's the basic end of basic teaching: freeness and universality. So you don't violate that constitutional precept, you don't fulfill your responsibility, you don't make educational communities rest the decisions they should, of course, assume. You're running away from your responsibility again. Take responsibility, defend public and free education...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u130	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u131	...and that is done through universality. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u132	Thank you, Mr. Ron. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Docasar.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u133	Well, thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Pombo. As I always appreciate your presence, Counselor. I would like to begin my speech today, Mr Pombo, by telling you that the Socialist Group will obviously support this non-law proposal, and that I am also glad that today and yesterday if you have talked so much about education in the Galician Parliament, which is not very common. We socialists have been the promoters of a system that we all, except the People's Party, want to recover. We take this issue to Commission 4th last February, with the illusion of wanting to drive a quiet debate and in time on this particular, even knowing – as we knew – that the policy carried out by the People's Party in relation to the textbooks in recent years has been and remains unfair, changing and even cheating. And I also know that the People's Group does not like us to talk too much about politics in this Parliament, even if it is about education policy and policy on textbooks. For us, ladies and gentlemen, it is very disconcerting that the Education Council has been giving with the textbooks since the arrival of President Feijóo's government. I want to tell you, ladies and gentlemen, once again, although it may seem heavy, that this country had a magnificent universal system of lending books that reached 100 percent of the student's compulsory education and paid taxes on all citizens and citizens. A system that was more efficient and economical, both for families and for the Education Council itself, and there are the data to prove it. And I don't think it's all about telling you and reminding you of it again in parliamentary headquarters today. But the PP, in that obsessive desire to change everything that others do, decided to land that book lending system, signalled by the Government of Mr. Touriño, and that had begun, and so it must be said to be respectful of history, by a government of Mr. Fraga. Almost six years ago, there are criticisms of the ANPAs, of all the parties in the parliamentary arch except the People's Party, there are powerful reports of the people's defender. And to end in the course in which we were going, the middle government wanted to rectify without it seemed to correct them, because it wasn't that society thought the PP was going back on that project called pomposa and deceitfully "system of free solidarity", which, of course, was never free, nor was it ever solidarity, because that pompous system has left at stake thousands of students and thousands of families. And I say it solemnly at parliamentary headquarters. Hardly, ladies and gentlemen, if it can be more devious, even in the use of language. The economic situation that our country is experiencing, even though you don't stop talking about recovery, has led thousands of families to suffer from major economic hardships, in order to be able to face the most common payments of their daily life; among them, the payment of textbooks and the payment of the rest of school material. For the Socialist Group to ensure equitable access to compulsory education is something essential and irrevocable, and to prevent that from happening must be an ethical obligation for any decent ruler. Ladies and gentlemen, you know the study published just over a year ago by the town defender, Mrs. Becerril. In this study it was said that the book lending system was more fair and even more economically efficient than the current system of solidarity freeness, implemented by you. Four years of the book loan model at Mr. Touriño's stage cost 80 million euros and four years of the solidarity free-of-charge model at Mr. Feijóo's stage cost 200 million euros. The questions are, therefore, very simple: what system seems to you to be fairer and more equitable?, what system seems more efficient?, which system favors the Greek families more?, who wins and who loses all this? Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, you have today a majority in Parliament, even if not in society, as has been shown in the recent municipal elections. Listening – I always tell you – is not bad. I ask them to listen more to the teacher, because it is absolutely key to improving the education system; I ask them to listen more to the student and the family; I also ask them to listen to the teaching unions; and I ask them, at last, to listen to the rest of parliamentary forces. And I'm done. Families, Mr. Counsellor, are asking for seriousness and rigour in the Council's policy on textbooks; it's enough to keep tying up the textbooks. You have an obligation to prevent a single Galician child from being deprived of textbooks for lack of economic resources. That should be the responsibility of a decent government. Therefore, Mr. Pombo, the Socialist Group will support your initiative today. And, Counselor, make sure of all this and please guarantee you, but really guarantee that Galician children and girls will not be left without textbooks, and put order in the system, tell us that they want to be bigger on the topic of textbooks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u134	Thank you, Mr. Docasar. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs Piñeiro.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u135	Thank you very much, President. Good morning again, gentlemen. After the answers you gave here today, Mr. President of the Galician Council and yesterday's meeting of the Education Counsellor, little remains for me, or nothing, to explain the model of solidarity of textbooks, which, on the other hand, this group shares 100 percent. What's clear is that you haven't understood him well yet. What they want to do is to keep up with it; what they want to do is to continue calling for rebellion in the face of any measure that implements this government of the Galician Union, without analysing it or understanding it before; what they want is to continue to transfer to the political conflict where it should never arrive, which is in the classroom, using parents and students as a weapon, to throw against the People's Party, regardless of whether they are the real harmed. It seems that the only thing that interests you at all times is a public education in full conflict; that is when you rule the People's Party, because then when you touch the whistle, you're what they do is charm. As legitimate representatives, who they are, ladies and gentlemen, you are legitimate representatives of the citizens just as we are of the People's Party, and should transfer them less contradictions. Because you didn't want to, you don't keep calling for the book loan, didn't you want to implement booksbanks? Mr. Pombo, I think in Pontevedra your mayor is doing so. Let's see, if you're just doing the boycott, we can't move on. But it is not that the People's Party or its government does not move forward, the grave thing is that it does not advance the Welsh educational system, which is what has to move forward and what matters at all times to the People's Party. Look, I'm going to give you a series of appreciations on the subject: First appreciation. Mr. Docasar, you don't have to repeat it to you, Mr. Counsellor, because you have already told you today and in your name I'm going to authorize myself to tell you that no student who is within the thresholds of established income, none of you will be left without books. There will be problems, Mr. Ron, of course, in the beginning there will always be timely cases until the system is stabilized. But this government is committed to sub-analysing; don't run away for anything of its responsibilities; be quite quiet. Second appreciation. We are faced with an opposition that uses the terms and definitions as appropriate. What they define as charity today, I'm betting the memena that comes to power will end up reconverting it in what we consider to be collaboration, cooperation and solidarity. Third appreciation. Thank you for your appreciation, Mrs. Pontón. [[Mrs. Pontón Mondelo speaks words that are not perceived.]] Third appreciation. I'm not going to deny them the clippings. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Feijóo made cuts in education, three major cuts: he cut the school failure by 10 points, cut the school absenteeism by 50% and cut the inequality in the public education system. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, those were the big cuts in education. [[Applause]] Fourth appreciation, gentlemen. That is how you describe it here over these two days, Mr Docasar, that this is almost worth us for an extra education commission; public education is such as: public, universal, quality and free. You defend him and the People's Party defends him, too. As much as you want to confuse citizenship with your phony assimilation of concepts, Mr. Losada. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u136	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u137	It's not the president who confuses citizenship, it's you. And yet this government guarantees access to textbooks to all those families who need it most, ensuring that their needs will be met. What you call rectifier, Mr Docasar, is a logical evolution of the system of solidarity freeness, the fruit of listening – that you so much ask us – to analyze and apply those constructive and useful proposals for the system that come to us from the school community, from the Ombudsman of the People who now applauds the initiative of the Government of Greece and from the demands that you yourself make. This model that evolves and combines digital content, aid for book acquisition and the public solidarity fund of books, which will be formed with returned books and which will be managed by staff of the Council. To all of this, of course, we added the announcement that Mr. President just made this morning and that he will arrive at between 60,000 and 70,000 students or maybe that too...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u138	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u139	...is stigmatizing. Finally, Mr President, telling Mr Vázquez that, by the way, I have not heard him correct for accusing the Counsellor of being unworthy a year ago of saying the same thing his comrades now say in Coruña, Santiago and Madrid. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u140	Thank you, Mrs. Piñeiro. Replica tower, Mr. Pombo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u141	Thank you, President. Thank you for the support of the Mixed Group, the Alternative Left Galeg and the PSOE for this non-law proposal to defend the universal freeness of compulsory basic education in our country, to repeal a law of books that does not have books, to derogate aid for the purchase of books cut in 3.5 million euros, which does not suffice for those 40 or 50 euros that Mr Feijóo now says he will give off. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Yes, Mr. Feijó said that they would keep their gratuity without exception on their low incomes. Lies. With the current order the vouchers for a single parent family with a child and a monthly per capita income of 500 euros – I don't know if this is high income – receives 90 euros. One couple, each with 575 gross euros, what is, a high family salary? It's 90 euros. Therefore, a lie that freeness will be kept without exception in low and medium incomes. To appreciate the support for an initiative that is the initiative that is calling for the Galician educational community, which last week proclaimed: "Public education is an essential reality in our lives, it is the guarantee that our children and children will all have a future, they will have it in the same conditions and with the same rights. For this to be so, we, families, work every day to make public education ever better and for nobody to stay out of it. We know that in public education there can be no difference, because we want our children to grow in equality and because we understand that their education must be beyond economic differences. That's why we always defend that all public education has to be free. And we can say it and demand it because we, the people of this country, are the ones who bring with our taxes all the public money." They say to families: "We demand the return to a universal and free loan system of textbooks or material that replaces them without depending on family income, but it's the same for all students." Families also claim that sufficient administrative staff are guaranteed in all public centres to dignify the work of the teacher and in respect of which the quality of public education deserves. They also ask to postpone LOMCE in Galicia, because it has numbered days, because Galicia is the only autonomous community that keeps it, for the greater and – I would say – the only glory of Mr. Wert, who may go on the way from OECD to find a new job; organization that wants to convert the right to public education into a business, but organization that Galicia can not give you any class in what is the quality and Greek public education. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u142	Thank you, Mr. Pombo. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in connection with the selective process for the provision of a chair of director or director of the Galego Centre of Contemporary Art convened through the Order of 25 September 2014
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u143	No amendments have been tabled to this non-law proposal. For the defence of the proposition, Mrs. Pontón has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u144	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, since the Galego Nationalist Block we have been defending throughout this legislation and denouncing more than defending the blindness of the Galician Union in relation to the situation of Greek culture and culture in general. A blind woman who didn't change her title in front of the council, but even worsened herself, because as he himself expressed no intention of changing anything in an erratic policy. And we say she's blind because she's depriving the whole of our country of a basic right as the right to develop our culture. And this clearly affects social well-being and our collective progress, because at this moment we are living clearly a cut of a right as access to culture, and we see a Galician Union that is in some way practicing with the country itself a certain cultural cannibalism. In any case, we know that the crisis we are experiencing right now, the crisis that is in general in culture and, in particular, in the institutional system of Greek culture has problems that go beyond the cuts. We understand that the cuts are a take of position of the Government of Greece, a take of ideological position in a process that is much larger, a process that aims to replace culture by the spectacle as we are seeing with the management that you do, that turns the City of Culture into a sort of black hole of cultural policy and that aims to replace culture as a right for culture as a good of consumption. All this in a process in which a clearly neoliberal model, a uniformizing model, where what you do and are collaborating, is the disappearance of a Greek institutional system where culture is present in all arts and all disciplines. In any case, an ideological problem that, in addition to the specific case of Galicia, is mixing itself with an absolutely negligible management and with a government in decline. Now, since Mr. Feijó's rule, culture has been reduced by 50%, the Council of Culture has disappeared, we have a general secretariat which is really an appendix. And we see how the Councillor of Culture abandons this session at the end of the debate because, in fact, it doesn't seem important to you what happens with the CGAC. Of course, it is all a symptom of disrespect for democratic institutions and one shows more of the contempt for what opposition members say, which represents what a part of Galicians and Greeks think, who have every right to express themselves and defend their ideas, even though they do not agree with what the People's Party defends. Unfortunately, this decadence, the neglect of the People's Party is dragging into cultural institutions. And today we have the Dramatic Center without a director, we have a CGAC that has been without a director for six months, with programming about to finish and there is nothing planned, and a CGAC in which after a turbulent and opaque process to designate a new director, two persons of the patronage, including the head of the CGAC Patronate, who know their lordships who have important functions as an organ, recognized by the decree governing this institution. And, in any case, this whole process is making public light of a problem that has been taking a long time, a problem that has the origin of the lack of cultural policy and a situation that is drifting away from our institutions. And it's not that we say it in this group, that those who are defending the selection process of the CGAC director, and they go to the press and look at what these same people recognized the absolutely disastrous situation in which we have an institution today that should be a reference in our country and that the PP with its practices and with its management is clearly destising and putting into a very difficult situation. I wanted, to show what's going on today too, to bring here this debate what one of the people who resigned in this patronage said, that he did it publicly, and therefore we also have to recognize his bravery right now, because we know how the People's Party spends them. In any case, one of these people, Marisa Sobrino, publicly put on her facebook wall, which we can all see, just like listening to her in an interview they did in the Cultural Diary, in which she said, "The CGAC is diluting as an innovative center of exhibitions, research and cultural activity. The intention of whom the government is to install it in a drift towards its invisibility and its disappearance. The CGAC, which at the time was a reference space of illusion and generational impulse, has lost its identity, has become an institution that is increasingly poorer, more neglected and without any autonomy towards its own administration, which is coupled with the strong interference with which it is managed by cultural leaders, who believe it as their own home. The paulatino wears that has been suffering and the underestimation of one of the organs that are guided by its impulse as is the Patroado, the opaque and partisan manages in the process of electing the new director of the Center under a simulated normative appearance of good practices thus prove it." This is what people have been reporting for more than a decade as part of this patronage and at this point they understand that the whole process that went ahead with the selection of that new direction of the Center is a demonstration that how far one is trying to drown one of the institutions that makes sense if it's free and capable to generate something positive in the country, to be a reference of our artists in the plastic arts and to bring to the whole population contemporary art right now. Therefore, we understand that in the face of an unprecedented crisis in cultural institutions, in the face of an absolutely negligible drift and that goes against the country itself, the logic is to rectify, listen and not go forward in a process that – as we say – has many shadows. It would be very good if the administration officials explained to us why the bases were changed for the CGAC director's selection, because in 2009 – it's funny – there were bases that have absolutely nothing to do with the bases that are presented in 2014. And the change that is presented is basically to give you a lot of weight to having titles, to having postgraduate studies and to lower your experience and management in the centers, in front of a previous model, which I don't say is the perfect one, but it's curious that it seems that the bases are made according to a person and not thinking that it's better for the CGAC management. And it is surprising – as has also been said in all this process – that the only selected person who has no experience in the management of the centers is finally the one who is selected for the direction of the CGAC, when in theory one of the requirements that was required was to have at least three years of experience in the direction of a center. It's funny how the bases are going to be made, it seems as if, according to a proposal, and therefore, all this in a process where there are also issues that we believe deserve an explanation. Because it is not to be accepted that once in theory this contest is resolved, when there is a claim because one of the bases is being breached, once settled, for they invent a proof that was not present, that it is not collected in the bases and that it somehow recognizes that all this contest has been made in an absolutely cheating and run-off way. By the way, it would be very good if today the person who comes out here explains to us why if a test is done to assess language competition, in that resolution itself, it is said that the only thing to evaluate is English. We are not told that we will evaluate the knowledge of official languages, nor is it a requirement, which, by the way, was in 2009, that we should know the two languages that are official at this time in Galicia. It would be very interesting to know that information. We today are asking that we in this Parliament tell the Board not to continue with an opaque selection process, about which there are many doubts and which really access to cancel this procedure and make a new contest where one seeks merit, excellence and the best person to run an institution like the CGAC. An institution that we believe is essential that it regains an active and dignified role and that it positions Galicia in contemporary art and that it allows our creators and creators to have the doors open, at the same time as it is a space that allows us to dialogue and interconnection with the trends that are currently taking place in contemporary art. It is clear that the public is not betting on this line, I think the decline of visitors in the CGAC must be a cause of great concern and is the certification of a cultural line that is not responding and that it is not having the support of the public. And so that must be a concern, because a museum without a public, of course, is a museum missing a fundamental foot, and that's what we're asking for today. Correcting is wise. To continue with a process that only it does is increasingly bringing down the prestige of the CGAC, of course, is a responsibility in which this Parliament should take letters on the matter and bet on rescuing prestige and democracy in our cultural institutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u145	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u146	The Galego Centre of Contemporary Art is not only essential to show countless occasions the guidelines of the most recent art at the international and national level, but also to review the work of previous artists or to review the names that mark the most intense moments of our artistic art. From Maruja Mallo to Jorge Castillo, from Laxeiro to Leopoldo Novoa, from Alberto Data to Rafael Baixeras. In addition, the CGAC is a place of interventions and projects that are conceived for itself, cycles of conferences, workshops directed to artists, public debates with artists and critics. In the CGAC there are incursions into the most diverse fields, in dance, in literature, in music, in theatre; any artistic language has a space for creators and audiences to find themselves, dialogue and grow. To say all of this may seem to be obvious, but it seems that the extent of mutilation is being achieved both in the development of the CGC and in the cultural promotions of artists and audiences who access their programmings, or that they are acting with total knowledge and, worse, that they are acting deliberately to dismantle an instrument that is very important to both creators and citizenship. The drift to which the CGAC has been subjected is not today, not only from this last disincentive in the selection of the new director or director, it has come from very early on. That's why we referred to the latest events of Miguel von Hafe, who left the leadership in December 2014, and had already announced in April 2014 that he had no intention of renewing in the direction of the Center, and his last days are also of absences and dissent in the turn of the Center. Nothing has been done, months and months without direction and without making vital decisions in the programming of exhibitions, in the design of activities, in the intention of closing events that need a maximum advance. This adds the wear and down of your Pattern, and now the opaque management of the selection process of the new director or director. The results of the selection process are dark enough, more so because since June, two of the participants' claims are not answered and it's already a matter that goes beyond regularity. You wear, leave, empty proposals, personnel and media, everything is crafted to take the Galego Center of Contemporary Art to invisibility and then to make it disappear. In the cultural sector, there was an alarm in the presence of a tailored call; reality was worse, neither clear nor transparent. The cultural policy of the Union is reduced to one word: drowning. Any institution, center or place where you work for the visibility, development or growth of culture is a priority in the design of the political extermination lines of the Galician Union. First, drowning, both economically and with total neglect of the means and personnel; second, once the inactivity of the centre is achieved, the way for its dismantling is opened; and third, the total disappearance. As centers like the CGAC or the Galego Dramatic Center, which, by the way, has also just resigned its director Manuel Guede, also distressed by the absence of economic means to carry forward the minimal project of production and theatrical programming. Or the Galego Coreographic Center, which is allowed to fade into 80 percent less activity than it had before the arrival of the Feijó Nuñez Union. They're examples of what's going on in any place where you work with the Italian cultural fabric. The case is to kill, you're murdering a culture and a language, it's a cultural genocide. At best we know he doesn't prescribe and they'll answer him. You only value show culture, only invest in Gaiás, that monster that eats any budget and that doesn't return to culture or society is a tiny percentage of what it swallows. It deserves my support for the BNG initiative on the annulment of the CGAC director or director selection process, and to restart the procedure in line with the criteria that must be rejected in public procurement: merit, equality and capacity, i.e. simply ask the Board to fulfil the law once again. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u147	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. Left gaga alternative group, Mr. Ron.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u148	Good day again. With this initiative, what we see is that the Union kills culture, despises culture. How many times have we denounced in full and in commission the systematic ineffectiveness of the Directorate-General for Culture? We could mention the numerous challenges in the preservation, dissemination and preservation of our cultural and historical heritage. And we don't get tired of receiving the negatives of the People's Party. We are before a General Directorate of Culture, a department, a council that is characterized by the continuing budget cuts, by the systematic and fleeting dismantling of cultural infrastructures and institutions, which are the ones that should guarantee the right of access to the culture of Greek citizenship; a right that you are amputating. But today we have to refer to the Galego Centre of Contemporary Art and to the negative situation in which it is plunged due to a really nefarious Union of Galicia. And to describe, we are not going to defend ourselves in what we know, but in the words of the people who lived and worked within the Patronate of the CGAC, the body responsible for the guardianship and impulse of the institution. It has already been said here: Maria Luisa Sobrino Manzanares, a professor of Art History at the USC, a member of the Patroado since 2005, when he formalized his resignation he warned of the situation of invisibility and loss of capacity to be a referent as an innovative center of exhibitions, research and cultural activity. And we sincerely wonder how much it will not have to do with the competitiveness that is crafted from the Council of Education and Culture, becoming the only reference of the Fraguian mausoleum of the City of Culture. Maria Sobrino said when it was going to be that the CGAC was becoming a poorer, carefree, self-sufficient institution, and the drop that filled the patience was the opaque and partisan management in the selection process of the new director of the center, under a simulated appearance of good practices. And that's what we're going to talk about. The provision of the head office or head office of the CGAC is a necessity so that the centre can meet the goals we wish for all the people we stand for the Greek culture. But it cannot be through a selection process sponsored by the Public Administration involved in complaints of irregularities, opacity and facts that even run counter to the order established on September 25, 2014. The selective procedure, according to Article 9 of that order, consists of an assessment of merits and projects –Article 9.1 – and an interview –9.2–. Well, as far as the interview is concerned, it is clear that knowledge of the official languages of the autonomous community, as well as foreign languages, particularly the English language, will be valued at a maximum of 10 points. We know the existence of allegations made on 27 April by one of the participants in the selection process, who complains that during the time of the personal interview this candidate was not required at any time to believe the detailed knowledge. He received no answer to the allegations. But substance should have, since a month later, without being on their own bases, people selected are invited to a language test that took place on May 25, 2015. An undefined proof in the bases either in its form or in its content, since it indicates that they must be part of and their assessment in a mandatory way of the interview phase, as indicated in a new claim recorded before the test was carried out on 22 May 2015. We are faced with what the Valator of the People denounced in his recent report here, which is perfectly listed in the numerous complaints and complaints about irregularities in the selection and recruitment processes sponsored by the Public Administration, by the Galician Union. It's a shame, it's a shame. So, in the face of irregularity, there is nothing else in this shameful action but the annulment of the process and starting another one that meets all the criteria of merit, equality and capacity, and the criteria of objectivity, and that does not respond to the hidden intentions of the Council of Galicia or the hidden calls for certain persons to come to Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u149	It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u150	Therefore, our support for this initiative, which coincides with a further one that had presented Alternative Left-Galga, and we hope that the People's Party for Dignity will give it its support. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u151	Thank you, Mr. Ron. Socialist Group, Don Emilio Vázquez Blanco.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u152	Good morning, President. Ladies and gentlemen. The Galego Centre of Contemporary Art has for more than two decades been a cultural reference in our country, an institution that has always been prestigious for its contribution to the spread of Galician contemporary culture. Unfortunately, during the last few months it has been known not for its activity, but for its desire to which this government is submitting. Let's remember I've been here since December without an address. But above all it's sadly up to date because of the more questionable selection process of the new director of the entity. A process that, as we have been able to observe in recent months, has brought with you multiple complaints of irregularities in the process of selecting the new director himself and which is causing irreparable damage to an institution as important to our cultural heritage as is the CGAC. An institution that is becoming a victim of the cultural desire of this government, in addition to the despicableness of a process which, as we can see, is full of questions. We have already denounced by active and passive cultural disillusionment to which culture is subjected by this government. It's not something new, unfortunately, even though you're trying to deny it. It is also true that opposition groups do not tire of setting examples, which, as they can observe, are abundant. And this case could be considered almost paradigmatic of what their cultural policy is: ill-treatment, lust and, above all, despair. Following the publication of the provisional results of the selection process, in which the new director, Santiago Olmo, obtained 76.9 and the second, Manuel Segade, 76.78, complaints were filed by the latter and by the third position. As you know, the process was paralysed after these candidates had made no allegations regarding barrier and personal interview. In the claim, the two candidates claimed that Santiago Olmo had been elected new director of the CGAC after 10ths of his score following the personal interview, even though they had higher scores both in personal trajectory and in the evaluation of the project presented. What's curious is that the Board solved the allegations not answering them, as would the logic, but paralyzing the process and doing what they called a language test, to end up ratifying Santiago Olmo's appointment as new director of the CGAC. And it’s curious because when you enter the call bases for this post of director you can see that among the merits that are properly sorted and with its corresponding score are professional experience, academic qualification, complementary studies and publications, for that’s what doesn’t appear anywhere is the requirement of language knowledge. That is why it draws considerable attention to the fact that precisely the claims submitted are resolved with criteria which do not appear on the bases and which, therefore, we do not know what the contents, the bars and the courts that resolve this call are. They will understand that they are strongly calling attention to the untransparent way in which this process was carried out, which is, of course, far from the codes of good practice in the public administration and which expressly prohibits the principles of merit, equality and capacity that demand our legal order. And I don't want to let the occasion pass to make manifest a fact, which is the surprising absence of the current requirement of knowledge of the Greek language to opt for the position of director of the CGAC. To consider that in order to direct the Galego Centre of Contemporary Art, it is not essential to know perfectly well what is his linguistic policy. And following the process of what we are talking about, I mean that in addition to the allegations made against the resolution of the selection process, the doubts about this process are accompanied by the resignation of two members of the Patronate of the CGAC itself. First, with the resignation of the Professor of Art History, Sobrino, who has manifested – as I say here – his total disagreement with a situation that he qualifies textually "as it derives from his invisibility caused by those who rule." Besides criticizing the high degree of political interference to which CGAC is submitted, it openly questions the selection process of the new director.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u153	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u154	And only six days after the resignation of Marisa Sobrino, the situation worsened more with the resignation of the president of the Patroate of the CGAC, Dr. Sofia Santos Pérez, resulting in a fundamental crisis in the image and prestige of the CGAC. Therefore, from the Socialist Group we support this non-legislative proposal submitted by the BNG, considering more than grounded the request to cancel the selection procedure of the Director of the CGAC, the request to convene a new public tender and to carry out a selection process that guarantees the transparency and cleaning that must have in this type of procedure, establishing as requirements the correct knowledge of the official languages of Galicia and barring the knowledge of other languages so that it is not a discretionary criterion. But in addition, we ask the People's Party to support this initiative, not because we ask the opposition groups to do so, but to avoid irreparable damage to the image and prestige of an institution as important to our culture as the Galego Centre of Contemporary Art. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u155	Thank you, Mr. Vázquez. People's Group, you have the floor Mr. Baamonde Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u156	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good morning, gentlemen. Well, I see that the Galician Nationalist Block is very concerned about the alleged cultural cannibalism of the People's Party, cannibalism that we obviously deny. But I think there are others who are much more concerned about institutional cannibalism that practice BNG. We don't eat anyone, but you've already eaten a mayor and they're on their way to eat a president of the parliament. But, look at you, you should look after – I would make a recommendation, if you accept it – you should take care of the menu, because it is good that, on the one hand, you insist on the need for non-corruption in the presence of institutional posts, but on the other hand, you can't maintain that support for mayors who are in the same situation, unless they want to do right what Kissinger: well, you're a corrupt, but you're our corrupt, only Kissinger was calling you otherwise and I'm not saying because the president would call me quickly to order. [[Applause]] [[Murmurs.]] Getting into the direct subject of the matter, we deny the greatest of what was said here. We insist that the tender made should not be cancelled, nor should we call for a new invitation to tender. You don't have to do this because the election of the director of the CGAC was made through a public and transparent procedure. A process that was carried out through a summons controlled by the Directorate-General for the Public Service in the wake of a perfectly specific, precise and clear basis, which, in addition, were advertised and were not challenged or cancelled. And the final selection was made by an independent valuation commission, made up of professionals, without the presence of any kind of public office and no external interference. You spoke of references by some of the members of this patronage or foundation, and the chairman of this board publicly reaffirmed that he had not received any pressure from anyone, and he did so to others of the members, specifically Mr. Antón Castro. It was said here that the existence of alleged irregularities is based on an allegation made by two of the candidates regarding the assessment of language knowledge. Two details in this regard: First of all, the allegations have been answered. What happens is that it is necessary to take into account what determines the 10th base of the summons, which regulates the procedure to solve this problem of the allegations, and expressly points out that the allegations, if any, shall be deemed to be estimated or rejected, as appropriate, by publishing the final score, which was the process followed in this case. Secondly, it must be clarified that the knowledge of languages was indeed perfectly planned in the summons. It was part of the interview phase, at the shelter of the determined in base 9.2, which expressly pointed out, Mrs. Pontón, that the interview will assess the knowledge of the official languages of the autonomous community as well as of the foreign languages, specifically English. By the way, Mr. Vázquez, among the official languages of the community is mandatory – as you well know – the English language. It is true that two candidates made a claim insisting that the assessment of language knowledge had been omitted. Having verified the truth of that claim and its omission, what the competent body did was to retract the process, to quote the three persons who passed the cut-off note, 65 points, for the holding of the interview again, in which consideration was taken that determines the ninth basis in its point 2. Therefore, the error has been resolved...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u157	It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u158	...I imagine you won't regret the mistake. And when the mistake was made, the evaluation commission was to raise the final proposal to the Council of Culture, which will make the designation, if any, of the proposed person. Management has also been spoken here. It doesn't give me too much time to get into that question. I respect, as it would not otherwise, the opinions expressed in this respect, but it must be pointed out that the Galego Centre of Contemporary Art is a reference center in the plastic arts recognized at the national and international level, with a dynamic and complex activity, with more than twenty exhibitions in recent years. And in case someone spoke here, who talked about attendance and the public, pointing out that after the City of Culture it's from the museums of the Council's network what you have most visited, specifically 131,000 in the last two years. And finally, to finish, you have the right to monitor summons, but not to teach moral lessons. Look, together...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u159	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u160	...currently he made two public contest calls to designate the director of the CGAC, the two-party government on the only occasion he had to do so through the transparent procedure of the ungloved finger. I mean, you're not saying one thing anymore and you're doing another thing, you're saying something and you're doing the opposite.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u161	Thank you very much, Mr. Baamonde.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u162	...because he misses the word, but what he does and says the opposite is a liar because he misses his word and also lacks his works. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u163	Thank you very much. Author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u164	Thank you very much, Madam President. I would like to begin by thanking the rest of the groups for their support for this initiative and regret that the People's Party is still lying as a system. By the way, of corruption, I think you have enough to scratch and, of course, a terrible responsibility to have today a number of accused people, and even – some – we're going to see – looking at the control bodies of the Galician Union. Therefore, Mr. Voicer of the People's Party, I think that before you give lessons about anything you should be starting with cleaning up your house of corruption. [[Applause]] I also want to tell you that the only thing I agree with is that you made a public proceeding, and that's right, with a call under the control of the Galician Union. Because you didn't explain here why you're changing the bases for the year 2009, because there's a substantial change in the criteria. We already know that a practice that often does the People's Party in many institutions is to make custom-made suits, suits as a person does. That's very good for the People's Party. So they simulate a democratic process, when what we are actually dealing with is a democratic fraud, which is what we are seeing more and more. You recognized here today something that I think is very important. You recognized that in the first selection process it did not work according to the bases, it was recognised by Galician Union itself. But to do a review of what they have done, what they have done – we understand – is in a way – and we are seriously studying it – irregular. Why? Because they make up a proof that didn't appear there, and they name an advisor who only evaluates language competition in English. Can the People's Party now certify that an assessment of language competition has been made in the co-official languages, in the languages that are now official? You know that wasn't the case. So you guys today are recognizing with your little mouth that there are irregularities in this whole selection process, which is what's really going on. Look, you're eluded to tell us that there's an important download of the public, it also elucidates the own criticisms that made some of those people who selected Galicia's Board itself, because the valuation committee doesn't fall from the sky, doesn't assign it to the Patronate, has designated it to Galicia's Board. So you can't say that there's no clear and direct interference from the People's Party, which lays the foundations and sets up whoever solves this competition, which I think is one of the problems that is going on in all this. And that the Patroado himself, and I think that rightly, feels absolutely...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u165	Thank you very much, Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u166	...none because he has recognized functions that the Galician Union is usurping him. I think today we've taken a step forward: the PP already recognizes that there are irregularities...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u167	Thank you very much, Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u168	...and, of course, what we believe is that it is irresponsible to continue to focus on processes that are opaque and have doubts. But now Mr Feijó told us this morning...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u169	Thank you very much, Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u170	...what they like and what they repeat is illegal. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. Popular of Galicia, at the initiative of Da Marta Rodríguez Arias and thirteen other Members, on the realization by the Galician Board of Normative Development of Decree 183/2013 of 5 December, thus creating the Early Warning Network of Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u171	This non-law proposal has been amended by the Glaga Alternative of the Left and the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u172	You have the floor to Mrs. Rodríguez Arias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u173	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen. Today we are going to talk about a fundamental topic for society in Galicia, especially for children living in our community, which is the early attention. Early attention is the set of interventions addressed to the children's population from 0 to 6 years old, to their family and their surroundings, with the aim of responding to the transitional or permanent needs of children with developmental or at risk of ill-treatment, to facilitate the development of their personal autonomy and social inclusion. Given the social changes and experience accumulated over the past few years, it is necessary to build on a new concept of early care, a concept based on the rights of children and children, equal opportunities and social participation. The first years of life have a crucial importance, since it is when children and children develop the main skills: motor skills, perceptions, linguistics, cognitives or socials; early detection and early stimulation are crucial for these children and children to achieve the highest level of personal development and social integration. In Galicia, in December 2013, a decree establishing the early-warning Galician Network was issued. This Greek network meant a turning point creating a common space for coordination and co-responsibility between the health system, the education system and the social services system in search of an integral action. This decree, which regulates early-care services as an integral network of public and universal responsibility, is therefore one more step in the process of consolidating the current early-care resources in our community and incorporating new services and programs. The launching of the Early Care Network will guarantee homogeneity in the approach of early care and a uniform way of working, which we believe is fundamental. In March 2014 the Autonomic Council for Temperá Care was created, which had among its objectives to create an intervention protocol, create an early care agency and set up a training programme for professionals. In December 2014, this intervention protocol was drawn up and launched with a view to establishing coordination between different departments and ensuring a single model of care. A protocol that enabled the Early Care Network, a common space between the health, education and social services system, and, above all, a work tool indispensable for professionals who participate in the care of children under the age of 6 with development disorders or risk of suffering containing the training needed to meet the highest quality of these children. The creation also of the Temperá Care Agency, which aims to ensure the necessary interdepartmental coordination. The launch of a training programme for professionals in the field of early care, which was given a boost with the signing this June of an agreement with the Galaga School of Public Administration. Training will be directed to the staff of the departments of Wellness, Education and Health; to the staff of Sergas and the community social services professionally linked to early attention. This training will be an essential step towards ensuring that children and families in need receive the highest quality care. All these steps have been taken to advance in timely attention as soon as possible, but we believe that the Greek Government must continue to work on the attention of the children and the children with some difficulty in their development. That is why we are now presenting this initiative by urging the Galician Union to carry out the normative development of the early-term care decree, so that in the shortest possible time, the care processes in the health, social and educational system will be regulated, with the aim of not leaving behind the important progress that I have made in implementing this comprehensive model of care for children with some difficulty in their development. For this we call for the support of all parliamentary groups, we believe that the reason for this initiative is well worth it. And also take advantage of my intervention to thank the associative movement – the association of parents and mothers, professionals – for the great contributions they have made over all these years in the field of early care. And also thank you for your hard work making great progress on this subject. For now, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u174	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Arias. Intervention of parliamentary groups. [[Pause.]] Alternative Left-Galga, you have the floor to Mrs. Solla Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u175	Thank you, President. Well, as much as I've tried to explain it, it looks like one of those initiatives that obeys a questionable separation of powers, and I explain it. The PP brings a non-law proposal in which it calls for a decree issued by the Galician Union in 2013. In other words – if we don't misunderstand – the People's Party is denouncing that the Government of the People's Party itself does not comply with its work, and a year and a half later it did not put in place, in relation to early attention, the content in that Decree 183/2013. But what's going on? As stated here by the spokesperson of the People's Party, in February 2015 the Education Council published the protocol for coordination, intervention and institutional derivation of early care. So now that you have already published that protocol – which I will then refer to – you bring this initiative, which, as usual, serves to make some sort of institutional advertising or transfer that you seem to be doing something. All a virgin's own from a scarce separation of powers, to my understanding. We've been used to this procedure, which is not more often if it becomes more ethical or more indicated in this House. But beyond that, we have tabled an amendment to the initiative on a number of points. Firstly, the protocol is rather vague and unclear; it does not set out how resources will be used to access the targets that it says must be achieved; it does not set out how those services will be coordinated; but, worst of all, it does not imply an increase in public resources. The resources that refer to the list existing in this publication are resources that were already operational and therefore do not set any improvement on public networks. It is a hypocrisy that precisely those who systematically cut in social services budgets in Galicia – 356 million less in education since the arrival of Mr Feijóo, 374 million less in health care since the arrival of Mr Feijóo, 1,155 million less in social expenditure – are those who bring this initiative without improving or extending public services relating to early attention. The depreciation of health workers' squares, in education, in well-being, privatized childhood schools, 2,000 professionals less in health care, 2,000 professionals less in education. Of course, early attention is very important, of course it is very important, but for that we have to have public resources and services. You just eliminated the professor-in-chief, support professors, school guidance staff, pediatrics, pediatrics, squirting primary health care; that is, with all these cuts you intend to form a early care network. But you also introduce privatization in these services of the specific resources for early attention, because Decree 183/2013, Article 8, Participation in private activity, says: "Private entities can participate in the development and implementation of the early care services...", and there's the point of the matter, which even if you finally introduce the collection that will have special interest in non-profit companies, you are introducing the private initiative into a service that should be only one hundred percent public. I mean, when, in theory, they have the possibility of creating this early-care network that has begun in public, you open it to private initiative, and even above all services that already start from privatization, in the case of children's schools; there are not enough public infant schools...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u176	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u177	...and in addition to the services of education and health – as I have just said – widely cut. Therefore, a network of attention will be early, of course it needs, but public. In addition to that, we also request the amendment to add a replacement of this school guidance staff, the teacher, the health care staff and the welfare professionals. The rest stay in institutional ads and niches for private business. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u178	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. Socialist Group. Mrs. Gallego Calvar.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u179	Thank you, President. Good morning again, ladies and gentlemen. Mrs. Rodríguez Arias, allow me to be skeptical about your proposal today. I'm going to be skeptical, because the truth is that we've seen the background – which I'm not going to reproduce, because Mrs Solla in terms of cuts in health and educational matters, I think she has reproduced them quite well, and also in terms of social policy – this seems the most – all we've seen from May 24th to May 24th here – which is a series of policies of actions of the People's Party in Galicia, after the election battalion of May 24th, designed to try to appear before citizenship as a government that cares about people's problems, a government that cares about poverty, exclusion, children and children, social policies. It would have seemed more like that, because if it was not explained that a decree which was published in December 2013, which was in force twenty days after its publication and that it had some time limits on protocols, on the matter of strategies, which were highly breached by the Government of Greece – because some deadlines, the longest, were six months; therefore, by mid-2014 they had to be the tools set to deal with this Early Warning Network – because it had not developed until now, joined to a decree that remained there and that was not developed to date. And it also coincides that just last week the German Government approved the early-warning Welsh Strategy. And it seems that it was not very successful in the public projection of this early attention strategy that the social policy spokesman of the People's Party must come to Parliament to perform a more, with a more initiative, of advertising and propaganda to which the Government of Greece has become used to us. Having said this, I would like to make it clear that since the Socialist Parliamentary Group we fully agree that there is a European network of early attention, that there are protocols, that the actions between the three relevant councils - Education, Health and Social Services - are coordinated, that these actions have a budgetary reflection in each of the budgets of the councils, of these three councils. Because we know of the essential collaboration between all professionals who are dedicated to care for people, children and children between 0 and 6 years of age, to prevent precisely difficulties of psychomotority, etc., that they may have in the future or already have in that case. And we know the importance of doing that work, we recognize the professionals and professionals who have been working in Galicia for many years now to do that work: the Galaga Association of Temperá Care, and the parents and mothers, of course. But we miss that the German Government, in addition to talking about these kinds of issues here, reflects in its daily doing a greater political will than bringing a non-law proposal to the Galician Parliament. Because if we take a look at the budgets of the Government of Greece, from 2011 to here – which was when it began to appear for the first time the funding of the Galician Temporary Care Association, budgets were reflected in this case of the Labour and Wellness Council – we see that the only board that is setting up budgets for early attention every year is the Labour and Wellness Council. And you will agree with me that a very important part of early attention – I would say the most important part of early attention – is precisely in the Education Council and the Health Council. Those councils that don't only have a specific budget for this Early Warning Network, but in recent years they've been reducing all the resources that could be used to pay attention...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u180	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u181	...to children from 0 to 6 years of age with some kind of diversity. That's why the amendment presented by the Socialist Group, which is an addition and is very simple – and there will be a demonstration of the People's Party's willingness to put oneself to work on this, or to do once again a piece of advertising or propaganda – is that in these two councils, in the area of education and health, if you set out a specific budget, at least in the same accounts that are being recorded in the Labour and Welfare Council; so that we move from propaganda to the facts and so that we do not frustrate once again the expectations of parents and mothers and children from 0 to 6 years old who have some problem with diversity. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u182	Thank you, Mrs Gallego. Joint Group, Mrs. Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u183	Thank you, President. The early-care network created is, by the way, the result of a long work of organized society in the Association Galaga de Atención Tempérá in 1997. Early detection and early intervention are crucial to a better development of the person in the future and to a greater degree of personal autonomy. Many dependent people today could be autonomous if there were efficient systems of detection and early care for functional diversity implanted in the public system. I'm going to stop here, because I've lived an experience that I think is significant about what we're talking about. I started studying in a unit school, three years old – I could be three or four years old of what I'm talking about. I had a partner, Mari Carmen, who we called Mari Carmen la Mudita. Mari Carmen was deaf. Mari Carmen suffered torture at that school. The children and girls knew that Mari Carmen wouldn't read, because Mari Carmen didn't ask for food, she didn't speak to defend herself, and Mari Carmen was punished and beaten for not learning how to read. At the age of ten she was sent to a special center: she learned to speak and learned to read. Surely if the attention to Mari Carmen began to give to her at the moment when the problem was detected, she would certainly not suffer the torture she suffered, but surely, too, her future would be much better, and perhaps today we were talking about a university Mari Carmen, with a doctor himself. So, it's fundamental, we can't go on at that dark time where the difference was punished, we have to support people who have dependency problems. But not only do these people with problems of physical dependence, let's say, but also, also, other problems that children and girls suffer at their time of learning and that they remain unattended. And now I'm going to tell you a real case that I know: Roque, four years old, they call parents from public school to tell them that the child is vague. Roque writes in a mirror, but completely in a mirror, there's treatment in private, because still resorting to the Education Inspectorate is denied support for his dyslexia. That's what's really happening. That's why it's not understood that the People's Party is coming here to talk to us about propaganda. Really, if you were interested in having these children and children have the same rights and the same future as the other children, since 2013 this would be going to work. But the reality is that in 2015 children with learning problems and other problems are being denied the support they need to have a better future. PP follows propaganda, desperate families. In the Vigo area, families are giving their voice of alarm because their children are not given attention. They talk to Vigo's AMPA, they're not getting attention from children and children; not to mention the discrimination that, as always, suffers from Lugo or Ourense, always with many fewer services for dependency care, for health care, for attention to anything, two punished provinces. So if we want to comply with these objectives and that this does not become pure propaganda, I hope that the People's Party – and I am sure that if they are truly interested – will accept the amendments tabled by AGE and the Socialist Party, because the only way to defend the rights of these children and children, the only way to guarantee them a future in equality, is to stop cutting in health, stop cutting in education and start putting means and specialists to care for these children and children. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u184	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. Galego Nationalist Block, you have the floor to Mrs. Adam Vilamarin.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u185	Thank you, President, good morning to all. The surprise in front of this initiative, Mrs. Rodríguez Arias. Last week, as Mrs. Carmen Gallego has well said here, the Early Care Agenda was approved in Galicia 2015-2017, in which, in its act 3.3.1, she textually says the text that you recorded for urgency a few days ago: "Regulatory Development of Decree 183/2013, of December 5, so it creates the Early Care Network." Why don't we discuss the strategy? Why does this bring us in particular? But I've already been explained by the vocabularies who perfectly preceded me, I just want to read the letter that they sent first to the head of the Greek Government and then to the press, Foanpas, because I think those four minutes that I have left are better devoted like this: "Employees responsible, within the Olívic Federation of Associations of Fathers and Mothers of the pupils of Vigo and the region – we are talking about some 500,000 inhabitants – we have constituted a commission of special needs for educational support. This commission consists of mothers and parents of children with functional diversity and other people involved in the inclusion and welfare of children with functional diversity. In the course of action, and especially education, but we are going further, and we are fighting because the rights of these children and children are respected in the social, health and emotional sphere; so we address you because we are finding many pitfalls and many deficiencies in the Vigo Health Care Network, especially in the early care of children and children with functional diversity. Attention in the early years of life is fundamental and will delineate the possibilities for improvement of these children. One of the mothers who is part of the commission sent us this writing that comes together, explaining the situation that her daughter is going through. This experience can be extrapolated to other families who are in a similar situation." I'm going to read: "Now we're being denied to many families a basic and universal right as rehabilitation treatment, which leaves no choice but to go to private offices for lack of health care and sensitivity towards this collective that are children. All this arises as always from a personal experience, I turn to you – that is, to Foanpas – not to solve our problem, because this can no longer be solved right now, but I would be glad that it would be useful to claim what we need, to focus attention on the frightening, unfair and disproportionate situation that, as always, is released to those who need it. My daughter has just been operated on by the language, and since Sergas doesn't have the rehabilitation he needs, we're going to Barcelona, in principle, paying, but the problem is that during this month you have to receive specific treatment in the language so that the wound heals properly and allows for further rehabilitation in San Juan de Dios. Well, the miner who sent me back to the General Hospital logo is a young girl who only works with adults, but yesterday I was called to report that such assistance was impossible, since the waiting list is endless; therefore, my daughter is without that necessary rehabilitation. Of course, I was told that I could go to San Rafael, but we're already known and the 30-minute sessions with more children – with such shooting problems – are not similar to my daughter's grave pathology, which you need is a maxillofacial specialty and a recommended miner. In short, we will go to Barcelona without public health being able to ensure that the child is in the right conditions for the work that awaits us there and that they are unable to offer us in Vigo with the family and economic disorder that it derives from. A great deal of trouble for us and the whole community we're part of. I hope to denounce clear incompetence of vigorous health for all of us, endless waiting lists, lack of personnel for the child. We're already late right now, but it's the same as for the following. We have to raise our children's voice, we have no staff to attend to basic services. In Vigo in public health there is a speechopeda, one, and an occupational therapist; shameful" – said this mother. The truth is, I almost got excited when I read this letter. We could set a lot of examples, which we all know. The reality is that you want us to vote for something that's almost cashier today, but are there people who are caring for these children? I tell you honestly, no; and those who are multiply for five. Luckily, those people who can afford to pay take them to miners and private logos. We could talk about a lot of cases, and I'm thinking about a single-parent mother who's been taking her two kids to a private office for 12 years because they've never been given any service in the public. Mrs. Rodríguez Arias, what do you want us to say?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u186	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u187	...that we coincide with the strategy designed by AGAT? Of course I do. Are you guys planning on doing something? I honestly tell you, if you have something of a heart, you should almost withdraw this initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u188	Thank you, Mrs. Adam. Group author of the non-law proposal. You have the floor to Mrs. Rodríguez Arias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u189	Thank you, Madam President. Look, ladies and gentlemen, if you have a heart, you who talk about the experiences that many families have at this time with children under six years of age, who come here with experiences and who accuse this parliamentary group of using early attention and using children who are currently having a development problem, you should know that, of course, they were wrong, first with this Member, because you don't have to tell experiences outside the house, because you have an experience in this direction inside the house to be able to talk about this. And second, they're wrong about a parliamentary group, because it's not consistent or it's welcome that you're faced with an initiative where you're talking about early attention for children aged 0-6 years who need specific attention, talking about the progress of the Galician Council that is taking forward in that case, and we've come here to debate – if Mr. Beiras – in the Galician Parliament, that you're just talking about what we're doing advertising and propaganda and that we're presenting this initiative as a result of the electoral battalion of the municipal elections. Of course, I think it's pathetic.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u190	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Arias. Well, let's move on to the vote on non-law proposals. We began with the proposal of the Joint Parliamentary Group, at the initiative of Mrs Martínez, who said that she accepted the amendments tabled. Voting of the proposal for a non-law of the Joint Parliamentary Group, at the initiative of Da María Consuelo Martínez García, on the actions to be taken in Galicia in relation to the public media. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 34; votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. This proposal is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u191	We voted in favour of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mrs López, who said that he accepted the amendment of the Nationalist Block of Galicia. Vote of the compromised text of the Non-Legal Proposal of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mrs Burgo López and three other Members, on the actions to be taken by the Government of Greece in relation to the future financing plan of the health system of Galicia for the period 2016-2020. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 34; votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u192	We voted in favour of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mrs Gallego, who said that he accepted the amendment of the Galician Nationalist Block. Voting of the compromised text of the Non-Legal Proposal of the Socialist Group of Galicia, at the initiative of Mrs Quintas Álvarez and two other Members, on the demands to be made by the Government of Greece to the Central Government regarding the coverage of unemployment benefits and the transfer of funds to Galicia for the promotion of active employment policies. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 34; votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u193	We are voting on the proposal from the Parliamentary Group of the Gaga de Left Alternative, on the initiative of Mr Ramón Vázquez, who accepts the amendment of the Socialist Group. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Alternative Galaga de Lefta, at the initiative of D. Ramón Vázquez Díaz and D. José Javier Ron Fernández, on the demands to be made by the Government of Greece to the Galicia Foundation Social Work, Afoundation, of Abanca, in connection with the announcement of closure of the School of Child Education of the Sacred Heart in Lugo and of the Center of Child Education of the Campelo in Poio. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 34; votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u194	We voted in favour of the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, at the initiative of Mr. Pombo Rodríguez, which no amendments have been tabled. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of D. Cosme Eladio Pombo Rodríguez, on the performances to be carried out by the Government of Galicia for the 2015-2016 course in relation to the textbooks. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 34; votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u195	We voted on the proposal of the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, at the initiative of Mrs Pontón Mondelo, to which no amendments have been tabled. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in connection with the selective process for the provision of a director's place or director of the Galego Centre of Contemporary Art convened through the Order of 25 September 2014. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 34; votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u196	Finally, we are voting on the proposal from the Galician People's Parliamentary Group, on the initiative of Mrs Rodríguez Arias, who does not accept the amendments tabled. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. Galician people, at the initiative of Da Marta Rodríguez Arias and 13 other Members, on the realization by the Galician Board of Normative Development of Decree 183/2013 of 5 December, so the Greek Network of Early Care is created. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 40; votes against, 32; abstentions, 2. The voting is positive. As a result, this non-law proposal is adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u197	We continue with the development of the agenda, with point 6 of interpeleration. Da María Carmen Gallego Calvar and two other members of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the impact on the Greek municipalities of less than 20,000 inhabitants of the application of the current state legislation which suppresses their competences in the field of social services
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u198	Mrs Gallego Calvar, from the Socialist Parliamentary Group, has the floor to address the question.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u199	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good morning again, ladies and gentlemen. The "oh" that the People's Group launches because we don't support the initiatives from the opposition, if we tell them every time that those from the opposition put forward initiatives that don't support the People's Group, we'd spend the day saying "oh, oh."
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u200	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u201	Of course, advertising and propaganda. Counsellor, we've had this debate. The Socialist Group at the time of the reform of the local administration by the Central Government and then the Law of Rationalization was set up here in Galicia, asked you how the councils would be without competence in the area of social services. We asked him about the repercussions that would have on the abolition of social services competences for municipalities of less than 20,000 inhabitants, the repercussions that would have on the municipalities, on the users and all the problems that would be generated. You said then, in response to this interpellation, that there was no problem, that the Greek law would solve all the doubts that the municipalities had, that the entry into force of the regulations would be gradual, that they had not yet decided whether the competences in the field of social services would assume them by the provincial deputies or whether you would transfer them in order to order them back to the councils to which they had just taken them out. I mean, you said, as always, almost nothing we ask. The reality is that you have done this reform of the local administration against the councils and against the users – from all the municipalities, also those governed by the People's Party. Because you certainly remember, like me, that the Galician Federation of Municipalities and Provinces made a demolition report on the impact of this reform on the Greek municipalities and that they manifested themselves against that reform of the Central Government. That, while his mayor of Ferrol, then head of the Fegamp, was protesting against this reform of the Central Government, the Vice President of the Union, sent by Mr Feijóo, went to the Senate and applauded the reform that Mr. Rajoy was doing. You did a reform to dismantle the state of well-being, a reform made – as it said – against the municipalities and against the users. You reserve to the municipalities, starting from that reform, the only role of being recipients of requests and evaluators of poverty; that is to make reports to know whether people are at risk of poverty or social exclusion. It was a change made that didn't serve anything that was said to serve: neither avoid duplication, nor clarify competence, nor simplify the structure of local administrations, and of course the biggest lie you said when you made that reform that was to combat the government deficit, is disassembled by the data. Because you see, Counsellor, you know – and you knew then too – that in the deficit of public administrations to the municipalities was the least of all, it represented only 4.1% of the deficit of all administrations, and of that 4.1%, which was the deficit of all the municipalities in Spain, 25% was only the debt of the Madrid Council. I mean, you had a problem of debt and deficit, but it was in the municipalities that governed you and in the big municipalities, not in the small municipalities, which are the ones that attack this reform. This reform, in addition, you recognized in the debate on budgets this year 2015 that collected an economic impact that it had on autonomous communities. In this case, by 2015, this reform in Galicia has a cost of 300 million euros and you recognized that it had neither planned nor had anything in the budget to deal with it. You said here, in this Parliament, that in October last year the Fiscal and Financial Policy Council would change the model of funding for the municipalities and that it would be where it could be clarified how and who would provide those social services that would subtract them from the municipalities. Since then we haven't heard anything about you again, and, of course, today what we can say is that the municipalities have much more problems than they had before in this local government reform. Look, the municipalities have problems recruiting staff for social services because both the interveners, the secretaries, and the secretaries -- that is, what you've known all your life as national skills -- tell them that they can't do that job because they don't have the skills anymore. Those people who work in the municipalities, national authorities, don't recognize the law of Galicia, they say that the rule is state law and, therefore, they don't let people hire for social services. Nor do they allow jobs to be created in the city councils' employment relations for this type of service, nor do they promote competitions to provide vacancies that are taking place through retirement or other issues. I mean, in practice, the law that was made in Galicia to theoretically solve the problem that generated state law, it's no use at all. The Greek councils today, especially the municipalities of less than 20,000 inhabitants, cannot provide social services as they have been providing them until now and cannot hire staff – when it is necessary because there is more risk of poverty and more exclusion and it is when more people are going to the city halls – because national abilities prevent them every day. You know this is happening because these national abilities and the mayors themselves are consulting with your department and are consulting with the Vice-President, through the Local Administration General Directorate, to see how these issues can be resolved and you are unable to solve them. Do you know they're finding the new mayors and mayors who take possession from the May 24 election? They're finding that social services have fewer benefits than they had in the past, they're finding that they have fewer people to attend, they're finding that social services users in the municipalities have to make more payments for the same services and, above all, they're finding themselves with a poisoned little gift that you left before May, a poisoned royalties that you moved to all the municipalities in Galicia in March, which is this new arrangement for the transfer of services that were being provided through the Galician Welfare Consortium to the new Galician Social Services Agency. A little poisoned royale, Counselor, because you charge more for the same services, because the city council is obliged to do a job for which the skills are drawn first; that is, a gallimatía. Counselor, we know that you never wagered by the local administration or by the municipalities to provide social services, in fact all your efforts are intended to remove protagonistism from the municipalities. The most obvious thing is that in the Galician Welfare Consortium, the municipalities were all represented at the assembly and in the new Galician Social Services Agency, as I have already announced here on many occasions, there will be only five representatives of the local authority in that board of directors. Well, you've always denied the municipalities that capacity, but it's just that now, Counselor, you in that new Galician Social Services Agency not only deny them representation but want to charge more to the municipalities for making the same benefit. And you know who's gonna pay for this mess you're doing with local governments? Users, advisors, those who see every day as increasing the costs of services that are provided to them and who each day see as providing less services because you deny all of them to the municipalities. Look, the balance of his performance in terms of cooperation with the councils in social services is very clear and very obvious. Today, Junta finances 14% of the total social welfare expenditure and the average state is 28%. I'm going to say this in a different way for you to understand me, Counsellor: Galicia is the autonomous community where exactly half the expenditure of social services is concerned that the average of the autonomous communities of the state and, by the way, it is one of the most widespread population, with which the municipalities, the social services of proximity of local entities become absolutely essential. Because by being absolutely essential for our population dispersion, you're doing nothing less than half the state average spending of the autonomous community to the municipalities...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u202	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u203	...in social services. Do you really think that by following this attitude through the councils of Galicia, regardless of the political color of who is ruling them, they will be able to provide quality social services as the people deserve? Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u204	Thank you, Mrs Gallego. The work and well-being advisor, Mrs. Beatriz Mato, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u205	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon to all. Your Honor, I must begin by believing that you obviously mix up the prevailing legislation in our community, even in the state, intentional. And I'd rather think that this mixture of the vigorous legislation makes it intentionally to think that you have difficulty distinguishing the state competences of autonomous and even local competences, because in its intervention it has repeatedly made a mention to us, we were, we, that is, to us, it was the Council of Galicia that made a reform of the local administration, when you know very well - understanding that you should know very well - that the reform of the local government is a reform of state competition and that, in fact, the law that has been put in place is a state law. When I say that I prefer to think that it has bad intentions and that it is obviously not ignorance, I also say that it is not the Law of rationalization and reform of the local administration that it has to do with the possibility of hiring officials from the administrations – whether local, autonomous or state –. Because you know very well that there is another decree, that nothing has to do with this law, which is precisely what controls the replacement of officials throughout the state, including officials, and whether people are hired for social services or any other service that is rendered from the Town Hall that is regulated, Your Honor, for another council. So, talking about competences, talking about the laws and laws that we have in force and mixing it with hiring staff, and making it clear that this is responsible is absolutely... we're going to leave it out of place. Indeed, there was a state law and there is a state law, published in December 2013, which is called the Law of rationalization and sustainability of the local administration, a law that is obviously known within it. You can see from the analysis of social services – i.e. the competitive distribution of social services – that it is a law that had a clear conditioning, to its entry into force, competence and that competence, the first of all to finance; i.e. conditioned to an approval – that in the state has not yet been given and that it had to be in October last year – of the financing even necessary to enter into force, although it actually puts a date, which is December 31, 2015, and which is therefore now the distribution In some ways, from the Autonomous Community and in advance to prevent any misinterpretation that may arise or any doubt, to clarify the doubts of all officials and even representatives, what we have done was to develop another law – and this itself of an autonomous nature – called urgent measures, not of reforming the local administration, but of urgent measures, which precisely aims to clarify these powers of the councils and, of course, also of the Autonomic Administration in all matters. But not content with that, and at the request of this council, the Labour Council asks the Galician Juridical Counsellor to issue a report on this matter to clarify all the doubts that might arise from the council officials. It was a report issued by the Juridical Council in which it ratified that the powers of the municipalities in all matters, not only in social services, today are exactly the same as it was a year ago, two years ago, that three years ago. This report by the Legal Counsel for Galician lawyers has been forwarded and submitted to the Galician Federation of Municipalities to respond to any council that might raise a question. Doubtless, by the way, that since this law came into force at the state level, no one has brought before the Administration of the Unity of Galicia; that is, only in the administration in the vice-presidential department in the General Evaluation Directorate were presented two consultations related to two councils and linked to the employment area, but none related to the social area. Why don't you ask yourself such questions? Because, indeed, since this law has been in force for more than a year, since it was presented at the BOE, social services continue to lend themselves exactly the same. The powers of the municipalities continue to develop exactly the same, with the same commitment, with the same responsibility as a year ago and two years ago, and responding to the needs of their neighbours. That was, of course, the reason why no council asked the Council of Galicia to clarify the competences in social matters. Of course, the most important thing for us is to collaborate with all the councils, contribute with them all, dialogue and support their services and policies, regardless of whether they have more than 20,000 or less than 20,000 inhabitants, and so be able to ensure that all the municipalities can carry out their responsibilities and are, in fact, doing so. As I say to you, Your Honor, I don't know if you're going to use a report from a legal adviser, I don't know if you'll be using something that tells you that no council has asked you for that information, but what I can ratify is that today the councils continue to work exactly the same way, around meeting the demands and demands of their neighbours, developing the same competences in social matters as in other matters and, of course, counting on the unequivocal collaboration of the entire Government of Galicia and even this council. I don't know what might have made you think today there would be municipal schools that wouldn't be in operation – because, as I know, all municipal schools are in operation – or that there could be some municipal social center tied up with the elders who would also stop their operation, or that there might be some council that wouldn't give the social emergency aid and that wouldn't respond because it's not. They demonstrate their responsibility and show their ability and, of course, their competences as well. We, from the Council of Galicia, have, of course, financed the councils through the decree governing social services, a decree that comes from a law, the Law of Social Services approved by the previous Government, and, of course, we have tried to facilitate and help the councils as far as possible not only economically in the provision of their services but also legislatively so that there is no doubt about it. And I repeat that again, all services are being provided with absolute legality by the municipalities, according to the legislation that we have in force and, of course, establishing the necessary funding from the Council of Galicia and the Councils. With regard to the creation of the Agency, the Social Services Agency is a new agency that has been in force since January, it has taken us a long time to get it forward. It is a complex agency, especially in matters of personnel and not only by amount -- we're talking about about about about 5,000 people between employees and workers -- which has as its sole objective, exclusive objective, to continue to maintain the cooperation and work as a whole that we are developing with the councils to approach the neighbours and neighbours; that is, to continue to maintain all the infrastructures and social services that, in collaboration with the municipalities, we are providing. It is an agency whose creation was approved by most assemblage, of course, in the Consortium and that right now it's talking one by one. And it's absolutely false that this is a poisoned gift and that we're charging them to the counties more money. First of all because the negotiations are going to be, and are being, individual: one by one, city council. Second of all, because it's true that we're proposing a related figure to the provision of child-school services and linked to the provision of day-care centres that is less than they're providing in general, right now, through the Consortium and that it doesn't even reach 33% of the cost of the square. Indeed, we are negotiating and the responsibility and common sentinel that all mayors of any color have made even socialist mayors today approve...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u206	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u207	...now the entrance to the Agency. So, given that you've taken a year to present this inquiry and considering that we continue to move forward in collaboration with the municipalities, it must not be the situation in which the municipalities are located, Your Honor. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u208	Thank you, Counselor. Intervention of parliamentary groups. Mrs. Pure Churches, Joint Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u209	Thank you, President. Good morning, Mrs. Beatriz. Law 27/2013, of 27 December, is – and you know it well – to have an impact on social services and professionals who care about them to such an extent that they are dismantling these services, putting workers into work precariously and reinforcing the re-centralisation of the state and the deputies, leading to the privatization of public services and questioning the public employment and labour rights of workers. Despite attempts to justify reform in economic terms, this law has a clear ideological motivation whose objective is to deepen, as I said earlier, in the recentralization of the State, to strengthen the deputies and advance the privatization of social services. With the excuse of the local deficit and under the appearance of a supposed savings, the attack will be directed to the administration closest to citizenship: the municipalities. All the circumstantial criteria to local government –proximity, care for new needs, controlable management of black by citizenship – are relegated when not subordinated to the principle of budgetary stability and financial sustainability. It is already clear by the law in the explanatory statement, and it says textually: the main objective of reform is only "the reduction in the size of the local public sector." With the application of this law, the less populated local administrations, such as those of 20,000 inhabitants, will lose powers and also the corresponding budgets in basic services, which are now managed by autonomy and Members, who are the real protagonists of this reform. The case is that Members, obsolete and less democratic institutions such as the Senate – having members elected by their own party – have a deficit of twenty times greater than that of the municipalities. Moreover, the municipal debt at the state level is concentrated in the municipalities of Madrid and Valencia, both governed – oh, now no, but until now – by a government of the PP – remember Rita Barberá? How he privatized that woman! – that they reach 44% of the total. I think he's going to the Senate, by the way. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] On the labour market, it also adversely affects employment and the working conditions of workers in this sector – who do not stop protesting, one day yes and another, until they die, poor people – in the sense of permanence and rights, because it limits collective bargaining. With the second additional provision of Law 3/2012 and the Royal Decree 20/2012, it is permitted not to apply collective agreements, agreements and agreements – you know very well – and replaces collective negotiation with simple right – the law textually – with information. Apart from promoting the private management of certain public services, the law invades the competences of the autonomous communities in various aspects: the territorial organization or the legal personality of the parish remains in question. It also affects Galicia's Public Finance Act, as it regulates specific functional and labour aspects beyond the objective of local government reform and, above all, imposes obligations on Galicia's board against its own nature. Municipal services are provided at the standard cost fixed by the Government of Spain and if it is performed, in the case of the municipalities of 20,000 inhabitants, most of them will be assumed by provincial deputies, conceived by the centralist scheme such as the direct delegations of the Central Government. Instead of discussing the functionality of deputies, and now also of the Senate, and agreeing to their dissolution, it becomes a remedy for all the evils of the municipalities, particularly those of less than 20,000 inhabitants. Municipal autonomy is seriously damaged on the basis of a regulation which, without any constitutional support, imposes strict control on higher administrations in Article 7 and prevents the competence and territorial management of the Galician Union. Instead of betting on less decentralisation on the basis of the principle of subsidiarity and non-competence, with the consequent economic adequacy of the municipalities, reforming for that, among other matters, the Act of Local Farms, opts for the control and centralist interpretation of Article 37 of the Spanish Constitution and Article 3 of the European Charter of Local Self-Government, promoting and imposing the transfer of services to Members so that, as holders of the management of the same and given their organizational and structural difficulties, they decide to privatize them because, when assessed from an economic and financial point of view, a number of obstacles are imposed so that in practice they prevent new structures of this kind can be created. This has created a complex, client-friendly and inter-administrative trap that has led to the reduction of the social public sector and the privatization of basic services, which are already Mrs. Beatriz, of much worse quality and much more expensive. This is a matter of utmost gravity, Counselor. If health and education are already subject to a continuous process of cuts and privatization, in the case of social services it is intended to be dismantled, is it not? At a time of crisis when citizenship is confused, concerned, altered, so they create it like this, it's their strategy. But I tell you that in developed countries – and you have to know – social services constitute one of the fundamental pillars of the state of well-being. There are those who identify – you better – budgets and services as a social expense, as if they were completely lost. No, Counsellor, you forget that citizenship would benefit from these services is the most vulnerable part of the population, which includes a wide range of collectives. Also forget that all – you too, Counselor – will be dependent, if you don't die before, from there the need to universalize this service along with health and education. So the resources allocated to care more than a loss of spending are an investment, a very necessary investment, but not just an economic one, an investment in the well-being of a country with future policies and a society that doesn't live at the expense of old age, death or illness. In case you have any doubts, this one you just talked about is a woman. What if you clear up a doubt, Counselor, when you think you're resigning? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u210	Thank you, Mrs. Iglesias Sueiro. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. Mrs. Adam Villamarin has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u211	Thank you, President. Good morning. Good morning, Counselor. Look, after listening to you, I have several doubts, because in this question Mrs. Gallego was wondering how the application of Law 27/2013 affected and I thought I heard and I noted that it did not affect at all, at all. More importantly, you said here that they didn't even withdraw their skills. Because, of course, you put in place the Welfare Agency at the same time that these municipalities of less than 20,000 inhabitants will no longer have competence in social services, you apply to them a new agreement, once the Consortium is dissolved, to enter the Welfare Agency and you give them a month's term. Where it's been the month already! We must be, I don't know, in the third month or so and you're so quiet telling us that you go one by one, when here, when we brought this topic to debate – that we discussed it with you and then we had a motion – if you said to us, "No, no, it's not going to recommend it to the council in any way. Now with the Welfare Agency..." [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Yes, yes, it was said here from that rostrum. Come on, I think I should remind you – I should review it right now – that Mrs. Rodríguez Arias said this to a motion that was presented after a debate on the welfare agency. It's just that there's a story in things here, there's also a Journal of Sessions and there's nothing you can say. Right now we have a welfare agency that we just heard today that negotiates one by one. There are many municipalities that have no interest in this negotiation because they actually signed agreements with the Consortium until 2016, until 2017 or the year they signed and you sent them directly a new agreement that went up to their assignment. But – which is more curious – according to the 2013 Law, these are not the powers of the council, with which you cannot close that center – either a child's school or a day's centre, whatever it is – because it is a competition that assumes, I think it should be assumed by the Greek Government, but that, well, they distribute it like this... while they thought that the deputies would be another way to establish a division in social services. In fact, you have to explain it: what is the model of your advisorship – if you have it – apart from privatizing?, what is the model you have for social services?, exactly what is the model? What are you going to be in the county? What do they depend on the German Government? What do you want to do with the Agency? Because you know the law perfectly well, you know that the law – and that the Agency – had a coordinating character of all those social services. How will they coordinate? What is the Agency of Wellness road now? Will there exist, then, – so we understand today – different conventions according to the municipalities? Are those agreements going to be 30%, 35, 40, depending? What's it gonna be? Because you rightly criticized the Consortium because there was a bilateral relationship between the Government and the council depending on the characteristics of the municipality, because it is clear that the Town Councils of Compostela, the Crown or Vigo have a capacity to deal with certain social services completely different from those of small municipalities and those of rural municipalities. So now you're an amendment to everything you've done, to what you've said, that's very important to you to say it here. In addition, another question: you talked about funding but, of course, Galicia's problem is that it has absolutely inadequate local funding, something that doesn't matter to Mr Feijóo – well, because he has other concerns and, of course, is not the funding of the municipalities – and that clearly affects the social services of the municipalities. And if Galicia has a smaller investment in social services in the municipalities, we also want to see what local funding it has. Well, I was taking an initiative presented by our spokesperson in the Committee on Economics – in which it did not actually count on the acquiescence of the People's Party – in which it is clearly seen that the Greek municipalities receive for each inhabitant 51 euros less; i.e., 215 euros per inhabitant compared to the state average of 263. But if we compare it to the communities where there are larger cities – such as Madrid or Catalonia – there the difference, of course, is far greater than Madrid, which has 354 euros per inhabitant and 320 of Galicia. Knowing perfectly that by not taking into account the population dispersion – i.e. the population nuclei – and not the ageing of the population – that today we are watching in the news in the paper that continues to grow and does not revert to that situation – we have an absolutely unfair local funding system that makes them have a lot less resources than those municipalities and now, in addition, the Government is asking them to increase what they have to put into the Wellness Agency to continue providing those services. So, actually, today you have the opportunity to explain here what's going to be the road map of the Wellness Agency because there's a lot of people hanging from it, both users and new government teams in charge of managing these resources. So, please explain that to us, and if the People's Party has any interest in changing the local funding model. And also another question: look, Mr. Feijóo spoke of a plan against inequality. Since we have the opportunity today to discuss it with you and social services actually do a very important job for this fight against inequality, just trying to contain an important part of all the policies that have increased inequality and which, in addition, all converge in your department due to the loss of the labour market and also very important adjustments in the field of social services that have already been discussed here: the elimination of social workers, social educators, but only has to collect all the news issued from the College of Social Workers or Social educators such as, in fact, there was an important cut in all the workers. What will this plan consist of against inequality? One more pen? A field of propaganda? Any new apps? Any joint work with the Town Councils? Come on, the truth is, we have a lot of interest. Is it going to be from the Wellness Agency? Are you going to work in collaboration with some entities? It sounded, frankly, Counselor, the most propaganda. Because since you've been a counselor, you've had little concern about inequality and the Welfare Agency, and I repeat it, you've had a lot of interest in eliminating the Consortium for a matter simply of political sectarianism, not of improving social services. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u212	Thank you very much. Parliamentary Group of the Left Galician Alternative. Mr. Fajardo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u213	Good morning, everyone. The truth is to say that you have the floor in Parliament Mr Fajardo is to be quite optimistic, depending on which word. From our organization and from our parliamentary group, the first thing we want to demonstrate is our discomfort with the type of intervention that usually does the advisor and in this case more. We're talking about the situation of social services and your intervention shows that you're disabled. She's disabled because she didn't have a single sentence, not a single moment to refer to the situation of users of those social services that you're dynamizing. Not once in this Parliament do you refer to the unemployed, the people who use social services and the people who are victims of their policies in this country. Mr. Feijóo is the foreman of the demolition squad of social services and social rights of this country, but you're a perfectly qualified gang leader and you're carrying out a continuous but uninterrupted flight of what up to now were social services that started to work. I'm going to express why: because today we had to listen as Mr. Feijóo, the friend of Martial Dorado, was saying in this plenary that he wanted not to be rich but he wanted not to be poor, but what he didn't say was that while the number of rich people in this country, including in Galicia, were increasing in a brutal way the poor and the people who didn't have the capacity to live decently in Galicia. So you're an accomplice in a process of enriching a part of society by expropriating those who have less. At a time when economic activity is stopped, you're a demolition brigade that's expropriating the majority of society the little that's left to make four more and more rich. You'll have something to say about these issues, you'll have something to say. And, of course, you can't come here to say that the mayors of the cities of Greece are careful and that's why they join the Galician Social Services Agency. It's not true, it's not that they have a feeling, that they have no choice, there's no alternative because if you don't join that project, you just stop receiving the funds from the board and you can therefore leave many of the neighbors without social services that already have a low quality. You also go up this rostrum and say you're going to negotiate individually with each council. What does that mean, that there will be discretion? What criteria will be used? Won't there be a rough table where everyone knows what their possibilities are but depends on each mayor's negotiating capacity, or will the mayor's ideological position have one situation or another? That, of course, is dangerous for us, that you say that here the individual negotiation of each municipality can mean that there is discrimination of certain users simply because of living in a municipality or another and that, therefore, when talking about negotiation, when you negotiate with those who are yours, what's going to happen? So are we talking about customerism in the distribution or in the access conditions? It seems to me that this is quite important gravity. So when you accuse the Socialist Party's spokesman of confusing laws and competences and, therefore, does not know that the lack of recruitment does not have to do with this law but with that decree which prevents recruitment in the municipalities... I don't care which law prevents it, the fact is that it is the People's Party who approves all the laws that prevent a council from hiring social workers who improve and expedite the situation of their social services. Because what's the biggest problem with social services besides being proactive? And you also tell the People's Valuer, in the People's Valuer's Report, you say that social services have to ask for them and those who don't ask for them... and what do you do so that people know what kinds of actions they can have in social services? What are they doing? Where's the Joint Proactivity? It doesn't exist! That's how it doesn't exist, year after year, they stop executing 50% of the social emergency aid, that's a reality. But the biggest problem with municipal social services is the inability to handle in an agile way the number of files they receive because of the inability they have to hire. What are you going to do about it? What are you going to do with a situation that continues to happen, that 8.9 and 10 months delay to perceive the Risk? And during those months, the people who eat, what do you do, go home and eat? Are you able to put a solution on the table? What is the reality of these people who attend social services and have no way out? Or what is the reality of social services that have only three objectives and only three services? When you arrive at a municipal social service you can come up with a number of questions, but above all to request a degree of dependency and recognition of benefits or to ask for emergency help, but what other activities are they doing? How is it possible in this country that social services are thought of for those who no longer have an alternative and for those many people who are now in a difficult situation even though they are not in exclusion? What are you going to do with those 10 percent families who can't afford any of the letters that come to their house or the light, or the energy, or the mortgage, or the rent? When you got here, it was 6% and now 10%. What are you going to do with that 3.5 number of families who can't eat meat or fish every two days? What are you going to do with that 41 percent of families who can't afford any unexpected expenses? Or what are you going to do with that 45.8% of families who can't even enjoy a minimum vacation? What are you going to do? All these figures are now much worse than when they arrived and so I don't ask you what legal mechanism you're going to use to improve the situation, I ask you what is the practical mechanism you're going to use so that in practice the citizens of this country have a better situation than they have now. You're complicate the quality of life of our neighbours, they're condemning a social majority of people to some inexorable situations, and therefore you'll be responsible and they're responsible for 672,123 people at risk of exclusion in this country. 672,000 people! Don't you think it's a digit important enough for you here to have at least a second or a minute to think about them, to address them, to ask you what you're going to do for them? Because you never tell anyone who needs things, you tell others, big corporations, banks, but you don't have the dignity of looking at people who are going wrong to say, "Let's do something." Because what are they doing for these people? That energy bond that doesn't come to nothing when the difficulties of winter come? Is that inability to access the Risk when people in this country don't have access to the Risk? Is that legal reform of access to risk that is preventing so many people today from asking for risk, when a year ago they were entitled, simply because of that change in family unit conditions that they introduced into that law? What are the solutions you're going to give these? What are the solutions that will be given to the 185,000 people who, being unemployed, have no access to any benefits or to the more than 3,600 people living on the street? What's the situation? Delete the projects you had before to remove the infra-vival or access to a housing? Those are the issues that we ask you because, since you rule, if you violate the Charter of Human Rights, human rights are violated. In this country, German citizens have no guarantee of their right to basic human rights, article 25, which says there must be minimum living conditions, access to the minimums necessary. How do you feel about being responsible for a council, which is Work and Wellbeing, that allows in a country like Galicia – supposedly placed in the first world – to be unable to ensure that citizens of this country have access to human rights? What are you going to do with all this? And don't come here with regulations, come with facts, with realities. And the reality – I insist – is that one in four Greeks, almost one in three, is in a situation of social emergency because of the policies you defend. Another of the issues that seems very important to us is that the cuts in Galicia are tremendously wild in this sense – particularly wild since you arrive here, more than 15%, the per capita budget in 13% that is dedicated to social services – have affected, for example, an element that was fundamental to us and to a lot of people who needed it and that is also exactly what the councils do, which is the primary home care service. This basic home care service, which in many cases was confused not as a support service for the family or personal independence of each of the users but was sometimes confused with cleaning tasks and which, because of the cuts, is causing privatization driven by the People's Party of this service to mean that the cuts are being paid by the workers of this service. What do I mean by this? That the same service is being rendered with less importance and therefore replaced by the kindness of workers or the labor exploitation of these workers. Labour exploitation means, for example, that in this country, a home care worker is not counted on how much time he spends between home and home to care for people...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u214	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u215	...or you haven't been counted as working time the time it takes since you left your county to attend to the first person. So he's paying with his time cuts that the People's Party makes. In this sense, you always cut 15% of these benefits, but then at the end of the day those who cut them are to the worker and, therefore, also to the person who receives the service. I put a lot of questions on the table and I want some answers. I want some answer so we know what the living conditions are going to be in the future of the Greeks and the Greeks because of those absolutely regressive policies that you're pushing. And, of course, I'd like you to have been able to look in the face of each of those 600,000 Greeks who are in a position of exclusion and tell you what you're going to do, if you're going to do something, because whenever we've come here to talk about unemployment, social risk, access to housing you say the same thing and it seems like they're doing well things and you know it's not true. If they were doing well, there wouldn't be 650,000 people in this country with that situation. I'm asking you for a specific answer...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u216	Thank you very much, Mr. Fajardo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u217	...and not that he hides himself, as always, in the laws to rule out what is necessary.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u218	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u219	Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u220	People's Group. Mrs. Rodríguez Arias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u221	Thank you, Madam President. Counsellor, if I'm not wrong, today is Tuesday, June 23, 2015. As you could see, the Parliamentary Group of Socialists' inquiry was registered on May 7, 2014, we're talking about more than a year ago. So we're going to show that it's an interpellation of current rage, which we don't know is why the Socialists Group is rescuing this interpellation today. It is only enough to read the first paragraph of its appeal: the forthcoming reform of the local administration, of 27 December 2013 – of present-day rage – "repeats social services competences and is causing serious problems in the Greek municipalities, particularly in the less than 20,000 inhabitants". An initiative submitted on 7 May, when on 27 March, a draft law on urgent measures arising from the entry into force of the State law was already submitted to this Parliament in Galicia. So let us ask ourselves why you rescue this plea, because you recently didn't understand why the People's Group was presenting an initiative on early attention by urging the Galician Council to develop the corresponding regulations of the Early Care Network. So we also wonder why you rescue her today, considering that from May 7, 2014 until today many news have rained, Mrs. Gallego, on this issue. And you know them, you tell me you know them, but you keep arguing the same thing as in your explanatory statement. Maybe because the general elections are close, you say no, which is because many mayors who have just taken possession have problems with national skills for hiring social services staff. I don't know if before there were no Socialist Party mayors or they took possession now suddenly all the Socialist Party mayors and mayors. And all the other groups are doing is taking advantage of the Socialist Party's call to hold a debate on the whole of the Labour and Welfare Council. As you know, on May 27, 2014, a draft law on urgent measures was passed in this Parliament resulting from the entry into force of the State Law on the Rationalization of Local Administration. Why? Because in the face of the doubts of interpretation that prompted the state reform, the Greek Government along with Fegamp, along with mayors and mayors from all over Galicia, worked on drafting a bill of measures aimed at facilitating the implementation and interpretation of local reform and ensuring the provision of public services. The bill clarifies – and you know it – to all the councils that the competences that have been assigned by autonomous legislation will continue to lend them and you keep repeating that the People's Party removes competences from the councils. The project guarantees the continuity of the provision of public services undertaken by local authorities to the detriment of those laid down in the autonomous legislation, which currently confers powers on the municipalities will continue to be fully applicable. It was necessary – you thought it was not, but we felt that if it was necessary – to make it clear that the Greek councils are fully qualified to continue to exercise competence in such important areas as social services, equality, employment or youth and you voted against, they voted against different issues. For example, the Socialist Party argued that what they were doing in Galicia, the Government of Galicia and the Parliament of Galicia was to seize the competences of the councils in the field of social policy and that they applied the toughest ideology of the People's Party. Even the Galician Nationalist Block said that this reform was not the solution, that the solution was to empty out the powers and contents of Members. I'd like to know if a year later you're still considering it and bring an initiative to this Parliament to empty the powers and work of the provincial deputies. Look, the state law, in its transitional provision, says autonomous communities have the possibility of delegating the competences of social services to the municipalities. The Greek law, in Article 2, states that the delegation must be accompanied in any case by adequate budgetary allocation and that the powers conferred on local entities by the legislation prior to the entry into force of State Law 27/2013 will continue to exercise these powers by local authorities. So you want to continue with your strategy of fear in relation to the municipalities and social services. You want to continue your strategy of demagogy by trying and using this Parliament as a speaker to lie to the municipalities, mayors, mayors, councillors and citizens by saying that the People's Party wants to remove the competences in social services, especially to the municipalities of less than 20,000 inhabitants, that the People's Party wants to take care of the state of well-being. That's your strategy, and that's why they take advantage of an interpellation that you recorded more than a year ago, taking advantage of that interpellation, following you with that strategy. With regard to the Socialist Party and the Parliamentary Group of the Glaga Alternative of the Left, there is a contradiction that has already been denounced in this Parliament: on the one hand, on 27 May 2014 they voted against the German Law for urgent measures arising from the entry into force of the State law and, on the other hand, in another autonomous community in which you were ruling with the United Left, they voted in favour of a bill – not a bill but a law – which sets out the same urgent measures that were established in the bill of the Government of Galicia. The difference is that in Galicia these urgent reforms to adapt state legislation to the Greek reality were made through a bill, brought this Parliament, debated, the parliamentary groups had the opportunity to present their contributions and we were all able to work on that text, and in other autonomous communities what was done is a decree without parliamentary debate – yes, you then assume transparency –. In Galicia they reject a regulation that is adopted in other autonomous communities as a basis for drafting a decree containing the same measures as the law of Galicia. Of course, we thought that Galician councils were asking for a solution to the problems that created the state reform, there was dialogue with the municipalities to clarify the competences in social services and to ensure the continuity of the services that were being provided by the municipalities before the reform entered into force. We will continue to defend the Law on urgent measures because we understand that it solves many problems of application and interpretation. We want practical solutions for the municipalities and for the citizens. We bet we keep maintaining quality public services provided by the municipalities, but the truth is we don't know why you bet. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u222	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodríguez Arias. Replica roll. Mrs. Gallego Calvar. Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u223	Thank you very much, Madam President. Counselor, don't worry about me, I don't have any confusion with the laws, I won't allow you to try to confuse me. Because, look, what you did with the local government reform at the state level was even more or less to establish the primacy of the economy over people's rights. And that strategy that Mr. Rajoy started was followed here in Galicia by you. And how was it followed? So look: in the Social Inclusion Act you have reserved for the municipalities the role of applicants and assessors of exclusion situations, in the Rationalization Act you prevent a local administration from building or implementing a child's school, a day centre, a residence, etc., unless it demonstrates economic profitability and the urgent measures law that you have made to, in theory, stop the effect of the local administration reform that Mr. Rajoy, Counsellor, to that law there is no intervener, no secretary, no intervener, no secretary of councils that you are listening to. You're lying when you say that in the General Directorate of Local Government of Galicia they have no complaints from any council. Look, every day the mayors and mayors – not only those elected after May 24 but those before – are lifting repairs from the interveners because they don't let them hire new people related to social services, either to fill vacancies, either to register them in a job relationship or any other reason. And it has nothing to do with them not letting them deal with matters related to the rationalization of administrations and debt, they don't let them hire them because the municipalities that have their healthy economy tell them, from the intervention and from the council secretariat, that they can't do these contracts because they're hiring people for services that they no longer have skills, advisor, that's reality. Nothing to do with debt, I'm talking about wholesome municipalities, counselor, that's reality. But you, as always, are trying to paint things differently. And look, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party and Counsellor, we, the Socialist Group, have already discussed with you here about this law – a long time and many times, by the way –, interpellations, motions, non-law proposals and about the impact this law was going to bring. And why are we bringing her back here today? Very simple, counselor, for two reasons: the first is because since May 24, the socialists in Galicia have ruled over two out of every three people, that didn't happen before May 24, and therefore our concern has increased exponentially because we are going to have to carry out social services-related policies with absolute precaution for their guilt. The second, Counsellor, because we have been observing in you since May 24 a new strategy in relation to the councils and the deputies, a strategy of propaganda: strategy, now that you, the People's Party, have already escaped control of most local institutions, of trying to blame what happens in the future – because things are going to happen and they are going to be bad for citizens in terms of social services – the new rulers of the councils and deputies; this new strategy inserted into that advertising and propaganda apparatus that began in the Councils of the United States talking about inequality and inclusion. Look, advisor, propaganda, propaganda! Because, look, inclusion strategies, fighting poverty, a new social agenda... you! You guys who haven't had a single meeting with the municipalities across Galicia to carry out the measures that are included in the Social Inclusion Strategy. You who have made a social inclusion strategy to cover a mere administrative procedure required...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u224	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u225	...for the European Social Fund. You guys who dismantled the city inclusion teams, delay the Risga between eight and ten months and only cover 30% of people who don't have any kind of income. You, who of the more than 8,000 defiances that have occurred in the last three years, have only come to take care of 43 and now assume that they will deal with the defiances. Counselor, please don't worry, in the Socialist Group we're not confused, what we're not going to play with confusion as you play. You have to come here and say that you're going to go through the social services skills of the municipalities of less than 20,000 inhabitants and that you're going to go through that agency that you have, with those agreements transferred to the municipalities, that if you're so good, you'll have to explain to me why your mayors didn't sign them before the municipal elections. Or do you think your mayors...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u226	Thank you very much, Mrs Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u227	...are you also stupid, Counselor? Maybe he thinks so.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u228	Thank you very much. Replica from the Work and Wellness Advisor, Mrs. Beatriz Mato.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u229	Thank you very much, President. I have come to answer a question that asks me, in this case, the representative of the Socialist Party of Galicia, who speaks, indeed, in its questioning of competences and competences, I will speak further to affirm that I am a convinced that, indeed, a reform of the local administration is necessary, that it is necessary to avoid duplication, that it is necessary to improve the efficiency of all public resources to bring us closer to one another, in this case, to answer the neighbours and the neighbours. Speaking of what I was asked about, speaking of what the socialist representative asks, at the competitive level, of course, the reading of the binding legislation – not to repeat it again – and speaking of my matter – speaking of competences in social services – the circumstances continue to be exactly the same. I repeat again: they remain exactly the same after that Law of urgent measures which was developed by the Government of Galicia to clarify the competences. The fact that everything remains exactly the same and that no one is committing any irregularities shows him the maintenance of municipal infant schools, the development of emergency aid from the municipalities, or even all the requests for collaboration that have been made since the municipalities in 2014 and 2015 in all matters. Because, Your Honor, if it were illegal, if they had no powers, they wouldn't be asking for employment workers, they wouldn't be asking for integrated employment programmes, they wouldn't be asking for help for the Concerted Plan and it's all the same because it counts with the authorization and, of course, it counts with the permission of all the functional representatives who guarantee compliance with the current legislation and so we will continue to work. The spirit of this government of Galician Union is only to improve the response to the needs of its neighbours. For that, of course, we have to dialogue, we have to talk to all those actors who are part of the provision of social services, as it cannot be otherwise, and that is why this collaboration is so absolutely necessary. Precisely, it is a necessary collaboration to ensure that the person who does something has the possibility, of course, to keep it too and can do it within their powers. The objective of all legislations and, of course, also of autonomous rationalization is not just this one, to clarify not only the level of competence but also to ensure that no opportunist comes to make residences and then to leave them, for example, without funding for their maintenance and leave the bulk to any other administration. That's the goal: to invest money in responding to the needs that all Greeks and Greeks have in an efficient way, avoiding duplication and collaborating within the Social Services Agency. An agency that is already a reality since January 1st, adopted mostly at the assembly and, indeed, that agency will be the social services agency of all and we will talk to all the municipalities of our community, to all, not only with the municipalities that are in the Consortium. But, of course, we talk and start with those with whom we already have a shared relationship, which is those belonging to the Consortium of Compensation and Security. Speaking to all of them and in view of the inheritance we had in the entrance negotiations of each municipality, you can speak to the mayor of Allariz and you will know very well that you did not enter into the same circumstances in the Consortium as the mayor of Ares. So my negotiation now must, of course, be assuming the active participation of each of these councils in the Consortium to try to homogenize, to the extent possible, the participation of all the councils. But I insist again, this isn't a model change, it's not a negotiation change, it's not that there's a negotiation with each other, it's the inheritance you left. If you were treating BNG as different than the Socialist Party, I'll now try to homogenize them to give them an answer. Obviously, – I insist – after talking to the Consortium, we will talk to all mayors. Indeed, we have developed all our policies taking into account all the actors, and the actors are the social entities that work with different groups – whether disabled, whether they are linked to minors or, in this case, to poverty. That's why we made a social inclusion strategy, a strategy that already has a budget of EUR 500 million and 300 measures that develop multi-annual plans and that actually has a new plan that will increase and expand the group of people we are going to give a response, a plan that is currently working the entire Government of the Council of Galicia to, first, present it to social entities and, second, of course, to introduce it to councils and deputies because what they are about to participate in, what is about improving it and, of course, it is also up to them. That plan is currently...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u230	Thank you very much, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u231	...is part of a strategy...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u232	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u233	...and a roadmap that has existed for some time. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u234	We suspended the session until this afternoon at 4.30 p.m. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u235	We resumed the session with the following appeal. Da Maria Teresca Peace Franco, from G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the need to carry out an information campaign among return emigrants regarding the taxation of pensions received abroad
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u236	To formulate the inquiry, Mrs. Paz Franco has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u237	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, Counselor. This morning they concentrated in front of the Galician Parliament, again, hundreds of returnees, returnees who once again wanted to seek the attention of their lordships to get fair treatment from the State Tax Agency. There was just over a month and a half ago, particularly on May 5, after another appeal to the councillor of Fairy, a motion was approved in this plenary - the instance of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block of Galicia - which, essentially, urged the Government of Galicia to conduct two proceedings before the State Tax Agency regarding the taxation of the pensions of returned migrants. First, it urged the Union to negotiate with the Government of the State – obviously before the end of the six-month period of regularisation which provides for Law 16/2014 – to take into account the different judicial judgments in relation to the interpretation of Article 19 of the Spanish-German Convention which was in force until 2013, and which, by virtue of this interpretation, was exempt from submitting, to make taxation for these pensions from Germany the persons concerned. Another point was also referred to disability pensions, since many returnees and returnees receive invalidity pensions which, if they were approved or recognized or performed the corresponding expert by the National Institute of Social Security, would have the consideration of absolute invalidity or large invalidity, with which also – and the content of article 7 of Law 35/2006 – should be exempt from taxation in the Spanish State. And that, therefore, was also taken into account that consideration and that an immediate recognition of those disability pensions was made. Well, as I said earlier, more than a month and a half since the adoption of this initiative, from the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, and when we are seven days away from the deadline given to you, in the single additional provision, by Law 16/2014 to carry out this regularization, that's why we are asking today the Government of the Galician Union to know which were the managements that took place in that regard. It must be said, ladies and gentlemen, that, after the celebration of the two plenary sessions in which we dealt with this matter, citizenship as a whole and also Members of Parliament, we had heard news on this matter; in particular, of a judgement by the High Court of Justice of Galicia that reaches a person returned from Switzerland to whom the High Court recognises that, because his pension was derived from an invalidity of absolute degree, he had not to have taxed and therefore had the right to return the income. And if I may allow your lordships, I'd like to read a question that sends me a return emigrant in connection with this matter. He said, "Good afternoon. Today a lot of people have read this news either on that daily or on social media. Here's my reflection. The news is very good, but there was already some judgment of that content around. The most outrageous thing is that people have to resort to justice to be recognized as invalids granted and recognized in foreign countries, or that they paid pensions. And, worst of all, there's no way they believe jurisprudence: while the central government and the Tributary Agency say yes, there's no Supreme Court ruling, but we've evaluated a decision taken in the Greek Parliament that all MEPs, including those of the PP, voted, and we hope that the Government of Galicia's Union will defend us for the first time and enforce our rights." I read this e-mail, which sent me a returned emigrant, because on many occasions, in this same plenary, the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group denounced the discriminatory treatment to which they were subjected, by the Tax Agency, the returned emigrants, without, on many occasions, the People's Group's wish to acknowledge this situation. Also, Counsellor, I am going to criticise the Galaga Tax Agency, which you represent today in this Chamber: for two years now, practically, since the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, we have come to demand from the Tax Agency, both through initiatives of impulse and questions, which are put to the service of returned migrants; we already know that you do not have the competition in the collection, but I suppose that although you will have people with tax law experts, I suppose that the Tax Agency – and so you have acknowledged your director – will have people able to do a detailed analysis of which are the different situations faced by returned migrants in order to contribute to the easier defense of the returned emigrants. And in that sense, we always ask you to draw up a comprehensive study by that agency on two issues: with the theme of Germany – which requires you not to pay taxes on German pensions until 1 January 2013 – and also on the issue of invalidity. And we have to regret, Mr. Counsellor, that, despite the fact that the Galician Tax Agency always gives us the reason – I would almost dare say, if no one offends, as to the fools: "yes, for which" – however, almost two years later, we can see how that work has not been done. And so I say it all the time because it's curious that a lot of the data, and a lot of the information going on in this matter, is due to the persistence and work of returned migrants themselves. Recently, the return emigrant platforms themselves made me come up with a resolution from the Tax Agency – specifically the Vigo delegation – dated January 22, 1999 – i.e. it rained, year 1999! – in which the Tax Agency itself at that time accepted an application for self-liquidation correction submitted by a taxpayer because it felt that, in fact, according to article 19 of the Spanish-German bilateral convention, those pensions were not subject to taxation in the Spanish State. So my question, Counsellor, is: If returned migrants have access to this type of information from the Tax Agency, as is that the Galician Tax Agency, its technicians, its director and all the legal services of the Galician Union, don't they have this kind of information that would be of vital importance for returned migrants to be able to defend, with more forcefully, with more ease and, above all, with more legal arguments, their position before the Government of State and the Tax Agency? Counsellor, I also ask you: Is the Board – which sometimes is so acute for some things – that it has done in relation to the recognition of this right that the invalids of returned migrants are valued at once? Look, it's as curious as before the municipal elections, ladies and gentlemen, within the scope of the Labour and Wellness Council, you got your employees instructions on what you had to...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u238	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u239	...axilize as much as possible and give full priority to all requests for disability assessment by returned migrants. Because, in fact, it seems that before the municipal elections the People's Party and, therefore, also the General Sub-Direction of Dependency and Evaluation of Disability – which is who signed this internal instruction, which I now have no time to read to them, but that, if they want, I read to them in the next intervention – they say that it must be agitated to try to manipulate returned emigrants. And yet, the substantive issues – which expire on 30th of this month and if they are not resolved, there are people who will have to disburse thousands of euros, which in many cases do not, in terms of taxes from 2010 to 2014 – have no resolutions, such as the theme of Germany and the topic of disability. Will you tell us, Counselor, since May 5th, which you have done to the Council of Galicia to solve this problem? Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u240	Thank you, Mrs. Paz. Answer from the Consecutor of Fairy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u241	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In previous speeches before this Parliament to realize what has been being done since the Government of Greece to solve and accompany the collective of returnees, I have shown my support and that of the Government of what I am part of the whole group of returnees. From the very first moment that the German Government met the problem of this collective, in September 2013, we put ourselves to work, within our competitive framework – which, as you well know, never covers the taxation of foreign pensions – to provide a solution to the demands of this collective. Also, from the very first moment, we have maintained the relevant contacts with the Government of Spain to convey to you the concerns of this collective and to install and transfer the approved by this Parliament. We have always maintained that we are not faced with a fraud collective, and we insist that there has been a lack of information with this collective and that those who have not declared their pensions from abroad have done so without any incentive to hide them. As you know – even before any association, platform or defence coordinator of this collective was formed – in September 2013 the Greek Government already received the affected ones; and, when the platforms were already set up, meetings were held with the different representatives to know first-hand the problem and the difficulties they encounter so that they could mediate and responsibly transmit the problem to the State administration. As I told you, we had meetings with all the affected groups that requested it, and more specifically with the Morrazo Affection Association, with the National Coordinator Galaga of Returned Emigrants and with the Association of Old Emigrants from the Coast of Death. I use once again to reiterate my willingness, as head of the Business Council, and that of the director, mentioned above, of the Tax Agency of Galicia, to receive how many times do all the groups concerned request it. But the work of the German Government has not ended with these meetings, but all the agreements approved by this Parliament have been transferred to the Minister of Farm and to the Director General of the State Tax Administration Agency. In this line, a detailed information campaign was expressly requested to allow more extensive time-limits to be approved and fractionated by the tax debt. The president of the Union himself, in a meeting with the Minister Montoro, expressed the concern of our Government for this collective and reiterated to him that we were not going to take a step back in the proposals adopted by this Parliament. I would also like to explain to you the subject referred to in your initiative concerning a particular group within the problem of the pensions of returned migrants, which are the returned migrants of Germany and which have specific characteristics because of the existence of the above mentioned by you, the Spanish-German Convention of 1967, in force until the whole of 2012. This is an agreement to avoid double taxation. On several occasions, he has pronounced our High Court of Justice on these pensions of migrants returned to Galicia from Germany, diminating the exemption from taxation by the pensions they received from Germany until 2013. These judgments affect a particular group of returnees, only those in Germany, only those receiving pensions before 2013 because in that year the double taxation agreement with Germany has been amended. And it is also necessary to clarify that the pronouncements of the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia, the difference from what happens to the Supreme Court, do not create jurisprudence. This means that the State Tax Administration Agency does not have an obligation to comply with them, does not have to follow the criteria of the high court in Greece and is only obliged to comply with the binding consultations of the General Tax Office of the Ministry of Business and Public Administration. Thus, the State carries out its tax settlement in the light of consultations with this general address which, in this case, runs counter to the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia. The Board, from the very first moment, made it clear that it shared the criteria of the judgments of the High Court of Justice of Galicia and showed support for the fact that the State Tax Agency had taken these judgments into account in carrying out its liquidations. I mean, since the German Government it has been maintained that all returnees in Germany who were in the same situation should be exempt from taxation, regardless of whether they were covered by a public or private pension. From the analysis of the judgments of the Supreme Court of Justice in Galicia it is indeed understood that the pensions received from Germany with the agreement in force before 2012 do not pay, because the lack of clarity of the German Convention fully justifies the non-taxation of those pensions. We have thus stated and claimed it to the state on different occasions, the need for the State Administration Agency to change its approach and follow the doctrine of the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia. In particular, it was requested from the State, specifically, that in relation to those affected by the German Convention, which was in force before 2013, that the taxpayer should not be punished for having been found in a reasonable interpretation of the rule and that the position held by the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia should be adopted, so that the penalties imposed would be revoked, that new liquidations derived from the application of that agreement should not be carried out and that the amounts settled and entered by the taxpayers by this concept should be returned. But Your Honor, it doesn't affect all returned emigrants. This is about the German Convention in force until the date set out above and not the set of returned migrants, because the Government of which I am part has worked, worked and will work for this whole group in response to the demands of migrants who have received their pension from countries with agreements signed by Spain to avoid double international taxation, but also the needs of those who have received from other countries. Resuming the general question, we must not forget that some of the migrants have fulfilled their tax obligations and that we have achieved what we often discounted in an accelerated way, which is the current regularization period, which was opened in January last and has the same situation for returned migrants who have fulfilled their obligations – which, with data from the State Tax Agency, out of 68% in 2008 – and those who still, without a profit-free nature, have not done so. As I told you, the Union has attended all the collective of returned migrants and has always shown its willingness to collaborate with the State Tax Agency and to facilitate this collective of returned migrants to meet their obligations. Last December, at the initiative of the Tax Agency of Galicia, on its website, the State Tax Agency collects and makes available to the collective the specific link that allowed it to download the petition for forgiveness. Since January 1st this year, all returned migrants in this process can request the refund of the amounts paid in respect of fines, interests and charges. For its part, the Board, through its own Tax Agency, has assigned specific personnel, in the five delegations and in Santiago's central services, to submit requests for information. And the Galicia Tax Agency also counts on its website with specific information about this case, and we enable an information phone to address all returnees who have doubts about the process to follow. In addition, in June, within the framework of a collaboration agreement signed at the end of January with the State Tax Administration Agency and with an estimated cost of €300,000, 26 employees from Atriga, of a total of 40 workers, destined in Galicia for the State Tax Agency. In this way, attention, though more direct and close to affected citizens... thus, the number of contributors attended to this time in the service and pensioners abroad 2010-2013, in the Galician delegation, reaches 9,978 people, of whom 5,022 were attended by State Agency staff and 4,956 by Galician tax agency staff. I can also give you data from the service provided by Atriga on your appointments to the information and assistance departments, which were 187 – specifically in Coruña 26 and Lugo 16, in Ourense 23, in Pontevedra 105 and in Vigo 17 – as well as 101 if we talk about telephone calls. Our active commitment to this collective is therefore reflected in this data. I wonder, too, whether it is essential for taxpayers to have accurate, truthful, reliable and clear information about their tax obligations. Well, not only do I consider it essential, but I think it is an obligation and responsibility of the administrations and their rulers. I'm convinced that all personnel, both the Tax Agency of Galicia and the State Agency, who are working towards this collective, are doing so, transmitting information that, as you say in your question, must be accurate, true, reliable and clear. It couldn't be any other way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u242	Thank you, Counselor. Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Iglesias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u243	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you, President. According to his explanation he had to be the very happy, very informed collective, all very cool, but then it's not explained what these hundreds of people were doing today at the doors of Parliament protesting for their management and, in addition, it still explains less when they declared themselves voters of the PP. They're your voters, Counselor, they're furious. I'm also going to read the letter from a Salné returnee named Julio and he says, "Hello. My name is Julio. I'm going to address all those workers that we had to emigrate abroad to get out of the misery we were living in our country, and to get our families out of the way. Once these years you've worked in, we've worked hard and all around, the time comes for retirement that we're here and you're collecting from each of the host countries a pension that in many cases does not exceed 400 euros. Some money that comes from outside, that doesn't come out of the ark of the kingdom of Spain." In Julio. "And now comes Mr. Montoro giving us poles to the returned pensioners, informing us that we have to pay for it and, in addition, retroactively the last five years. It's less bad than the previous ones have prescribed." That's what the affected man says. "That I was in charge of the Fairy Delegation to inform me and they indicated that I had no obligation to declare. Apparently, we're applying a law of the year 2008, from which we've never learned and that no one's interested in getting out of the way as good as we have, but only for a few things. Now they already have a substantial amount to get out of all of us, working people that little we have cost us very much, and now the politicians with sticks are coming up to 8,000 euros. That's right, with deadlines until June. Thank you very much."in Julio. "What a shame, with all the rumors we have, that they have left us in ruins and that they haven't returned even a euro! Why don't you bar them all of their goods? No, it's better for the working class and pensioners. They've got you guys, they've got us suffocated and they're still pressing our throats." "Mr. Feijóo, I had some doubts about who would vote in the next municipal elections, but you and your party have dispelled my doubts and all those affected." This ends the letter. Currently, three months later, the Galaga Coordinator of Returned Migrants requires the extension of deadlines of the Regulatory Act, which ends on the 30th of this month. They claim, from the Coordinator, that the measures issued by the Central Government to date are mere collectors and sanctions. And there is no intention of giving a folder to a problem that is causing a serious headbreak to 200,000 people in our country. And it demonstrates the affected platform that what it pursues is a fair and equal solution for all pensioners and all immigrant pensioners through an amendment to the IRPF Act. Julio Pena worked in Bremen and Hamburg for more than 20 years, he is now retired, part of his 800-euro payment to Germany, the other Spain; as he, out of ignorance and misinformation, many returned never declared the Fairy that first payer. When the Tax Agency opens a specific investigation focused on foreign pensions, hundreds of retirees and retirees like Julio, from that moment on, receive intimidation letters, requirements, notices of fines – they are bigger, we don't forget this – and that Julio said he had a foreign pension and he reported that he didn't have to declare it because of the limited extent of the benefit. For those affected with the least charge, more visible where more arms led to emigration – in this case, Galicia – the only problem is not to make the declarations again since 2008, the biggest problem is the fines, and it turns out Kafkiano, rocambolish, that of having declared them at the time the affected would not have to pay, but they are fined for not doing so with sanctions that rise in many cases to thousands of euros, insurmountable amounts for pensionables with minimum pensions. Those who have already regularized the situation of the Fair return them – according to announces Montoro at parliamentary headquarters – the corresponding amount of penalties and interest of delay, but does not condone the tax since 2008 – that would indeed be a good fiscal amnesty – demanding those affected the retroactive liquidation of that exercise. That same day, and also in parliamentary thirst, in the control session of the Government, the opposition qualified as intimidation – and they are also extremely intimidating – the treatment that the affected collective is suffering. And he insists that, if you have to return to them, please be on the way of the trade – that less money is their money – and do not force older people to make burdensome bureaucratic procedures to recover their own, but you do not find enough sensitivity and political will on the part of the People's Party to assume this proposal. There are already two judgments by the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia that estimate the claims of two returned emigrants from Ourense with an invalidity pension in Switzerland. Justice states that these pensions are exempt from taxation, in view of the Tributary Agency's criterion of not recognizing the resolutions of foreign social security agencies. Will these two judgments – things of the system in which we move – not be applied on an official basis to the Tax Agency? This forces pensioners to fight unnecessarily and to take unfair costs. Many of these returnees are already considering – some have already decided and left – leaving the host country again: they are being mistreated by the Kingdom of Spain and the Government of Galicia. There's also, Counselor, a suicide case. Suicide case! You're the managers, the money is all. Before they die, I fix the situation that these citizens are living in the last stages of their working life. Let them live in peace, don't complicate their lives, and don't falter, please, the savings of many years of work and deprivation. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u244	Thank you, Mrs Iglesias. Parliamentary Group of the Left Galician Alternative. Mr. Fajardo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u245	Very good and warm afternoons to all because, from the point of view of energy efficiency, this Parliament has an obvious problem: it submits to the temperatures of Antarctica members of this plenary just so that others can stand the posture of the suit and the tie. I think you need to take note of that subject for at least one energy saving situation. [[Laughter]] No, it's a complex issue from the point of view of nature conservation and how, to keep up with what forms, some of us are going to end up with flu today... it's the least, huh, worse people are on the other side. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I didn't talk to you, don't interrupt me, please. [[Mr. Santalices Vieira pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Don't interrupt me because if I interrupt you, my God! [[Mr. Santalices Vieira pronounces words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u246	Go to the point.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u247	Now I go to the question, of course, first interrupts me and now you call me the question, it's all right. Will you keep interrupting me or can I keep talking? [[Mr. Santalices Vieira pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Ah, okay. [[Mr. Santalices Vieira pronounces words that are not perceived.]] No, I say it because I'm going to be scrupulous now, as if I had a mark on myself, I ask him to direct the plenary to be scrupulous with me. Well, we're talking about a subject that has been discussed in this House on many occasions and which demonstrates the different measuring rods of the People's Party administration when money is being discussed, for example, from Switzerland. [[Explained words not perceived]] This country does not track accounts in Switzerland of members of the People's Party or Gürtel or fraudsters, but in this country there is a tracking campaign of legitimate pensioners from Switzerland and other places in Europe who have returned to this country and who are tracked to see if they can go to their pockets. That's what's on the verge of this problem, a process of comprehensive control of our pensioners as if they were fraudsters to go and collect more, when that's not done with those who irregularly throw money from this country out. And those pensioners who have done their job outside, and who now earn a pension in this country, in addition to being treated in a way that is at least irrational, are persecuted and little helped when deciding to allow extraordinary regularization of their pension income abroad. Extraordinary regulation that will end on June 30 and that many of them will not be able to carry out simply because since the administration no means are put in place so they can get to that regularization. And I'm glad the manager of the Fairy Council came here once again, as he said on another occasion, to put a link on the Fairy page. I'd tell you to take any pensioner returned more than sixty-five years from those who were in the morning appearing for nothing at this Parliament's door, put the website in front of Fairy and tell him if he's able to make his regularization. First, a link that obliges a digital certification or a download of a document that has to be completed and that, if you make a mistake, it gives you an immediate error message, a question that any pensioner can do because they are all very dubious on the computer issue – there are but not all of them –. So this is a fallacy: it has not been facilitated from websites enough to allow pensioners to do it in a simple way. It would have to be done through the immediate care of all and each of these pensioners, which is not guaranteed to arrive at all before the 30th day. We're talking about that in the state as a whole it's 700,000, many of them in Galicia, and you give the data that were attended to 9,928. How many are left unattended? But beyond a fair claim, which is that some of the interests, charges and sanctions are returned to them, when will the damage and prejudice be returned? Because here it seems like there's only damage and prejudice caused when we talk about a large concessionaire company or when we talk about the loss of profits from a multinational. But when we talk about a pensioner who's being pursued, if they spend two years in hell every night thinking he has to return some money he doesn't have, it turns out there's no harm and no harm. There's no responsibility to anyone for nightmares, even physical ones, that have happened in this collective. Therefore, we, since the Alternative Gaga de Left, also claim that this should be taken into account. But we claim that they are fair, that it is not to be accepted that the citizens of this country have to defend themselves from their own administration, that they apply to them excessively a rule when they cannot apply it, as is the case with those who had an disability pension or those who, for example, received a pension from Germany. It seems unfair to us to do this, and how strange it is that injustice is always done with workers, workers, workers, pensioners and pensioners. You never do that to those who cheat hundreds of millions of euros, you don't go up there, you adjust yourself by chance. And so these issues should be asked on their own. But we also find it extremely important that we take the necessary steps to ensure that the necessary legal reforms are placed on the table. For them to be stimulated as to income levels regardless of where those incomes come from, when we talk about pension incomes or work incomes. To set that minimum from which everyone is taxed in the same way and not to be taxed depending on which income they receive, in this case pensions. Because I want to remind you that, in addition, these pensioners that you pursue, attack, and even I think they rob, are the ones that keep the Galician society. Because it's the pensioners who collect in their homes those 185,000 unemployed who have no kind of benefit, it's the pensioners who keep this society. Without those pensioners it would be impossible for us today to be in the situation where we are without an absolutely revolutionary social revolt. So we think you have a responsibility, and it's not enough that they always say the same thing, you always have two excuses; the first one, "we're with and we're on the side of those who claim it." To accompany me I never saw them very close to them except when they ask him, this morning they were out there and I saw no member of the People's Party who had been out there, none; not even you, Counselor. But in addition to accompanying, you say that it is, of course, a question of "we have difficulties because they are not our competences." Always a competitive excuse. You are the Government of this country, the Government of Galicia, and therefore you have to be with your administrations to defend their legitimate interests, and these are legitimate interests. And we think you're wrong. But they should explain why it continues to reach the homes of everyone and all that phrase that is the most scary one in this country, there is no horror film worse than this one, that letter that comes to the citizens who start by "beloved contributor." When a pensioner arrives in this country with a letter that says "desirable contributor", unfortunately, it is not to pay him back money, unfortunately it is not to regulate it on his own, unfortunately it is to warn him that there is a new sanction in progress. Because – you tell the truth – letters continue to arrive asking pensioners for extraordinary regularizations, and with that heading: "estimated contributor". I hope that in Ferraz and that's where letters also come up saying, "Dear contributors, you stop making your seats black." So, of course what is asked here: what are you going to do to make it easier for this regularization to reach everyone before the 30th? And the second question: do you have any legislative initiatives to overcome this injustice with regard to other taxpayers? And above all – this is a question that asks you about the Alternative Gaga de Left that is not in the interpellation posed by the Nationalist Block Galego – what are you going to do with the damage caused to this collective? Because there's a damage, you can't do things here and look elsewhere when you cause a very important damage. And in this collective, bigger, many of them have a very complex health situation caused by the suffering they have on the table thinking they have to return the money they don't have. Are you going to do something about this damage? So that's your responsibility. I hope you can give some answer even though reality is always different and that you are alienated from suffering, you are alien to reality. And they are aliens to whom in this country there are still thousands of returned pensioners, with a high age, claiming justice. You only understand justice for yourselves. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u248	Thank you very much. Socialist Parliamentary Group. Mrs. Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u249	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. In fact, today morning we attended once again a concentration of the returned immigrant pensioners affected by the State Tax Agency's decision. A decision that the Socialists have always said here that it was a premeditated decision and that it was a decision to make a massive, and perfectly planned inspection to the whole group of emigrant pensioners returned with the only object of collection; a decision that was corrected, in some respects, thanks to the push of the platforms and the affected people who have been appearing on the street since 2013; a decision that Socialists have questioned since the beginning and that we were the first group to bring this Parliament an initiative that was unanimously adopted by all groups in September 2014 at the plenary session of this House. And, from this initiative adopted unanimously, still, to this day, there is an important part of it that is not met, as the Counsellor knows, and that is what we want to talk about: the balance, the facts all this time and all those issues that are still being claimed by the collective today and which are still unfulfilled. You, Counselor, recognized here, in a question I asked you in a previous plenary, that you had sent a letter to the Tax Agency worrying about some of the issues that were in that unanimous agreement. Of course, his predecessor in the office also recognized that he had also sent a letter on the same issue. But the truth is, the managements made by the German Government, until now, with the Central Government, have not given the desired result. Today, at the end of June 30, we have a scheduled regularization by the State Tax Administration Agency, which is going to return to those who ask for the fines and the interest of delay of what they paid on their day – which was part of the agreement that was approved here–. But it's true that there may be a part of the collective who doesn't get to ask for it and therefore never recovers that money. And it's also true that, at the same time, while we're talking here, the Tax Agency itself is again sending letters to returned immigrant pensioners claiming the 2010 statement. I mean, the Tax Agency doesn't allow the regularization period to end, you still don't know how many returned emigrant pensioners are going to apply for regularization. But without knowing it, there are some who are not going to do it and who are therefore tax frauds and claim them in 2010. Well, I think the logic would be that the State Tax Administration Agency, given all that happened -- and if they paid attention to the management you did -- would at least wait for the deadline to end on June 30 and then if there were people who did not regularize, because they talked to them. But no longer, preventively, once again, treat immigrant pensioners as tax fraud. By doing this task at the same time as there is no amnesty for immigrant pensioners, but there was amnesty for many other people who were cheaters – that pensioners were not –, many of them – as you know, Mr. Counsellor – of the People's Party; the latter, Mr. Mouse. All this action leads people to protest in the street, because it's outrageous the treatment they're receiving. Not only for this, but also because they have been complaining, since 2013, that the recognition of the incapacitys they have in the countries of origin, that they have at the same level when they arrive in Spain, and they are not being heeded. Or the same thing is happening to immigrant pensioners returned from Germany who, after having repeated judgments of the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia, the State Agency of Tax Administration continues to disregard those judgments and continues to demand that they make a statement until 2012 – as you know – do not have an obligation to do. But not only that: you, in the interview you had with some of the returned immigrant pensioners platforms, offered them a number of improvements to help them make that regularization. And some of them, Counsellor, have not yet been put into practice, that is, they no longer need to be put into practice because the regularization period ends on June 30. Oh, it's going to be prolonged, because I hope it's extended, to see if it's true that we pulled it out of this interpellation. Because, of course, putting on equipment in the municipalities, in the districts where there are most affected people, you have to do it at the moment that this regularization is being done, you don't have to do it once that regularization is over. So what I want – I have told you in the previous interpellation and I have told you in the question we have asked you since the Socialist Parliamentary Group – is what we want the Socialists to be aware of the problem, that they meet with the pensioners and returned migrants platforms, that they demand from the Central Government a dignified treatment for these people – who are not fraudulent – that no returning immigrant pensioners who have paid the interest of delay and the penalties remain with that money without recovering, that they are granted the right to returned pensioners from Germany until 2012 if they do not have to make that statement. And that you work for two issues with the central government that are fundamental – but that they really work, without sending letters, with something a little more powerful –: the first one, so that those incapacitys that bring recognised from the countries of origin, and that in many cases exempt them from taxation, which are also recognised here; and the second, Counsellor, that we are able among all to change taxation legislation so that returned pensioners have exactly the same tax obligations as national pensioners. That is what we have been asking the Socialist Parliamentary Group since the beginning and regrettably, to this day, because it is not yet all achieved. And that's why immigrant pensioners have to be on the street manifesting themselves because they still don't have that necessary support from the Greek Government to make their claims – which are fair and I think they are shared by most, at least, of those we're here – happen. Because if we don't, we're all going to start thinking that this massive, planned, perfectly orchestrated inspection, which made the State Agency of Tax Administration with the only objective of collecting from the weakest of society, as it is also shared by the People's Party of Galicia and by the Government of Mr Feijóo. Because, Counsellor – I insist – not enough with letters, the letters are good to be sent at first to communicate the agreements that are adopted in this Parliament but something else is needed: political will is needed, negotiations is needed and results are needed. And what we're sick of is pretty words and we've been short of results on this issue; because the only result we've had up until now was that regularization process that we've been criticising, because we said from the first day that we had to do it out of the way to avoid precisely the issues we've seen developing in recent months: to prevent the displacement of people much larger than the offices of the Tax Agency, the trouble, or to have to go to the tax advice, or to have to put money on your pocket to try to solve a problem, or to have to be here in Parliament claiming that the State Administration Agency would open offices in the province of Lugo that I wanted to close, for example, and that the pensioners in that province could only go to the city of Lugo to claim. All these issues could have been avoided if there had been some political will beyond what the Central Government has done so far. We, of course, do not agree that this regularization had been done in that way and we do not agree that the State Tax Administration Agency continues to think that all emigrant pensioners are tax frauds and continue to transfer to them, even today, requirements for the 2010 declarations. And what we want is to see the government committed, committed not only with beautiful words when they come here to answer the interpellations that we bring from the opposition, but also with facts. I hope, Counsellor, that today you commit a little more than you have been doing in recent times that you have come to this Parliament to answer questions about this issue; because the truth is that until now it has not been satisfactory, at least it has not been for the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u250	Thank you, Mrs Gallego. People's Parliamentary Group. Mr. Puy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u251	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, as several spokesmen have mentioned before me in the use of the word, this subject has been dealt with both in plenary and in Commission 3 on several occasions since, in September 2013, we had news of the opening of inspections to many returned migrants who, without undue delay, understood the Agency's failure to comply with its tax obligations. And what I think is good for us to remember is that, although we do not definitely, although there are gaps to be covered, the fact is that since then we have made a great deal of progress towards a satisfactory, fully satisfactory definitive solution, in a question that, in fact, depends primarily on the State Tax Agency and where Parliament and the Board can do little more than show our will and politically pressure – it seems to me that it has been done by both the advisor and the councillor, and especially by the President of the Board–. We actually agreed from the first day that, in the vast majority of cases, we were before a collective that did not fail, that did not omit the tax obligation to declare their income consciously. And I think it's good that we remember that there was no conspiracy campaign here because, as was already reported in Congress, in 2013 there was a data exchange precisely in the collaboration between tax agencies from different OECD member countries on payments that were being processed from different countries. And it was precisely in the exchange of information where it was known, by the Tax Agency, that there were people who received income – in this case pensions – who were not declared. And that's what put in place the mechanics, the ordinary functioning structure of the Tax Agency, that is, without taking into account the bottom of the problem and the collective we're dealing with. It is precisely because this topic has been dealt with – I think it has also been given a lot of information in Congress, precisely to an interpellation by the group that today is the Nationalist Block of Wales – from the data provided by the Ministry itself, you can also deduce some questions. First of all, the minister informed – and I am sorry, I quote the minister of what the Tax Agency depends on by giving him credibility to his data because it cannot happen to me that he says some random data, but it is data that makes it easier for the Tax Agency – that in 2013 there were, in particular, 27,696 inspections opened in Spain – throughout Spain – to the group of migrants returned by their pensions; in fact, he said it was about a total of 800,000 acts of the State Tax Agency. I want to say that there was no more than a functioning that didn't agree with what was the sociological reality inspected, but, of course, there was no campaign here suddenly – as it was said here by one of the spokespersons – of specific persecution to a particular collective. Secondly, we also know that in Galicia – and today repeated the data by the advisor – 67% of returned migrants were up to date in fulfilling their tax obligations. Approximately half of these can be added because they included in their income statements and paid for those pensions they received from the foreigner; and the other half – we are talking in both cases, about 11,500 people – because they had no obligation – even taking into consideration those incomes – to tax on the income of physical persons because the amounts so allowed. And so there's another third part left: in Galicia we're talking about 11,500 people who directly affected this problem. It is indeed a problem that has been said here several times that it has a higher incidence in Galicia, where emigration in the past – especially in late franchising – has been more intense, because we are talking – again from the Ministry – of 33,000 people affected by this problem throughout Spain; that is, a third of the total of Spain is in Galicia but the number of people affected is in the environment of 11,500 people who have the complication of being inspected – which is also said here – by age and knowledge on many occasions, and by the very anguish that it causes to be subjected to an inspection. And that, besides – I insist – if you are complicated by the complexity of a tax such as that of the income in which they influence – as you know – many factors, such as progressiveity and retentions, which we know technically that causes phenomena of tax illusion because, often, one pays more but then turns it back; and although it contributes more to the payer, though less than what another has already paid, even discounted the retention, because it gives the impression that he is taxing for a greater amount, right?, simply because he didn't step him up in the payroll or pension throughout the year. Well, in that context, I would like to remind you – as you said here and I think not correctly – that we held a relevant debate in September 2013 in this House where we unanimously approved a proposal for an impetus to the Government. I want to remember that Mrs Gallego in that debate said, "what we ask of the Socialists and what they ask for is, first, information; second, that the treatment is homogeneous in all delegations of the State Administration Agency of Taxation; third, that they are not covered by any kind of interest of delay or any kind of economic sanction; fourth, that those who have to deal with payments effectively – if they have to do so, because we have many legal doubts that they have to deal with these payments – that they can do so within a period that does not drown those families economically." I mean, we agree that they should pay without penalties and postpone payment of those obligations. In that same debate, Mrs. Paz said – she said in the first person – "the returned migrants do want to pay taxes but those that correspond to us, just like the rest of the citizens." And we have adopted a resolution that I believe has been fulfilled and has even been fulfilled in some other respects. Regularization?, a six-month regularization period is open. Without sanctions, all sanctions are not being collected and even those charged are being returned. Delays?, automatic, without guarantees, under 18,000 euros and under the usual conditions with Fairy, in the others depending on the demand. The fourth point I was asking for was the revision of the framework agreements, the most conflicting convention – which was Germany’s – was already revised in 2012. And finally, if there are resources in the administration, they will be resolved in this way. This is not necessary once the Government has reformed the IRPF Law and has gone further because it even returns and does not charge the interest. Therefore, I believe that the Government has answered, among other things, because the Board has pressed on this issue and, in addition, the Board – as the Counsellor said – not only has pressed the Tax Agency but, in turn, has facilitated personal, material and human means to be able to meet, with those 26 officials – which are half-, a total – and I say the figure just mentioned by the Counsellor – of nearly 10,000 affected persons who have been cared for. And remember that the data of people affected by the problem, according to the official figures that the minister said, is 11.500, which means that most of the people affected in Galicia, about 10,000 over 11,500 were treated in the State Tax Agency, and half of them by personnel who brought to the Union. I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that we have politically done a lot and have been sensitive to this matter. Returned emigrants are not treated as frauds, the proof is that they don't have to pay, they don't have to pay, they don't even take interest in delay, they're not receiving sanctions. There is an open regularisation period and the Board has given them material support. They now pay the same as they did on their day – i.e., like the third that they taxed on their day – and they pay the same as any Spanish resident who is also subject to the obligation to declare whether or not according to the number of incomes they earn or the value of them, or the retention that was practiced to each of them. But it's also true that there are things left to do and not all the performances have done well. We particularly criticise the actions of the Tax Agency when the reform of the IRPF was under way, also in a debate raised in this plenary as a result of a proposal for reform of the IRPF Law. And I think we have to continue, especially by supporting those who receive pensions that involve deduction or lower taxation as a result of the recognition of disability in the country of origin. And, of course, we will need to keep an eye on the issue of deadlines so that we do not see a problem that should be basically resolved by the decisions taken. I think, ladies and gentlemen, if we compare the current situation to that of several months ago...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u252	It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u253	...we can certainly say that this House reacted, that the Government reacted and that we managed that the problem, if not in its entirety, was largely solved. And that's why we appreciate the counselor's attitude to continue to fight for a complete solution and encourage us to continue to support returned migrants who need it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u254	Thank you very much, Mr. Puy. Replica roll. [[Pause.]] Mrs. Paz Franco.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u255	Thank you, Madam President. Counsellor, I don't know if the cold that invaded us had anything to do with it, but I don't remember hearing what concrete management has done to the Council of Galicia from May 5 to now to achieve the agreement approved by this Parliament. If you have done some management, if you have done it directly, if you can answer that you were told exactly in the Ministry, or if you have simply been limited to sending a letter, or if you have any expectations that this can be solved before the 30th day. Or, otherwise, if it cannot be settled before the 30th day, and given the manifest injustice, discrimination, which means that people who have no obligation to tax have to do so and that then, in order to exercise their rights, they have to fight against the Tax Agency, that in many cases these people even have to come to loans in order to be able to cope with tax obligations which, in fact, are not obligations, but capricious of the Tax Administration... so that justice can be done with these people, if any possibility of enlargement is foreseen in that time frame. Because you literally said that the President of the Galician Union became the most valuable asset of returned migrants, who even transferred it to the State Government, who was not willing to take a step back. What does it mean to be unwilling to take a step back? I would like to see those great rhetorical statements – not here the expert in yesterday's rhetoric – have some practical concretion and tell us what it is for the President of Galicia, to his trial – because I don't know if you've talked to him, I assure you that it means exactly not to take a step back. What does that mean? What do we tell these hundreds of people who were here this morning? And those who were not under different circumstances but are also mobilising in the comarcas and who are deeply concerned about this situation, what do we tell them? What is the realization of not taking a step back from the president of the Galician Union? Because look, Counselor, you also recognized here that it was essential for migrants to have true, reliable information, and not to harm their own interests. Look, what do we say to an immigrant returned with a German pension who was out here this morning and asked me, "I have a German pension, according to article 19 I don't have to declare until 2013, day 30 ends the deadline, what do I do?" You, if I wanted to transfer true information to you, what would you say? I ask, because I didn't know what to say. Mr. Puy, what do we tell that 68%, according to Mr. Minister's data, whether they had made their statements, or what they did after the Tributary Agency started this harassment campaign in 2013 and what, for example, didn't they have to do? Because of course, I already know that statistics are what it is, but I'm going to tell you that in 100 percent of the cases where I did checks -- it was only two, huh? because I don't have management and I don't do this professionally, but I did checks on two cases of emigrants who made 12 and 13 statements, for example in both cases they had invalidities, which forced them to make statements, and it turns out that right now, these days, they just have to file a claim for undue income, because they didn't have to do it, because now the Social Security has to recognise that disability. How many of that 68% will be incur in the same case and paid without having to pay, without having to pay, and still not know today? Counsellor, there is no case-law, of course, there is no case-law, because, in order for there to be case-law, some of the parties, in this case to which they lose, should file an appeal for marriage, and, of course, the Tax Administration does not present the appeal for marriage because it knows that, probably, in the Supreme Court itself, there is a loss and then there is no more remedy than applying it on its own. So we could say that the Tax Agency is performing an act and a torturing use of its right not to file an appeal. Because if you don't file a cassation, you understand that it's because you assume the contents of the judgments, not to keep manoeuvring the rights of returned migrants.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u256	Thank you very much, Mrs. Paz. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u257	That's why, Counselor...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u258	Thank you very much, Mrs. Paz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u259	...I ask you, please, to take this matter seriously, and not to take a step back means or to settle before the 30th or to extend the deadline.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u260	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u261	More...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u262	Mr. Valeriano Martínez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u263	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, three subjects, in particular, which I would like to talk about in this second speech. First of all, the last claim that has been made to us by the collective of returnees, at several meetings held, before and after – as some of the people who have intervened here will also know, because they also know other things, I suppose that they too – in terms of automatic recognition of the incapacitys obtained in third countries. Just three weeks ago, we had the last meeting with them, with all those who approach us to discuss these issues – with all those who come closer, I repeat again – and we asked them for the information needed to know how many people are affected to get to work, and at the moment we are waiting for that information to be sent to us. Why? Because, of those contacts previously mentioned in connection with our relations with the Central Administration, in this case with the National Institute for Social Security, if we were to be informed that, at the end of April, in connection with this issue of incapacity, from 2014 – leo – until almost the end of April, 122 applications, of which the opinions issued were 57, requests for returns due to lack of information, 49, and petitions in process, 16. From this data, it is when, in relation to certain positions by the INSS and the Tax Agency, we could leave nothing more than to act, to act both the Labour Council and the Business Council, making ourselves available to try to speed up, in a way as quickly as possible – and even in these seven days that are missing, by the volume of what we are talking about, it would be relatively easy – to try to accompany and collaborate with these people so that, in a clear way, we can complete this documentation by causing a position by the INSS at the moment. Which, we all know, does not end this June 30 with the theme of disability, but even facilitates our collaboration for the next actions that can be done, because the problem of disability arises from two questions: on the one hand, there are incapacitys that are not directly comparable to the system that we have in Spain, and on the other hand, there is documentation that is very old, which needs a certain amount of updating work at this time. For all this, since the Business Council and, first of all, the Labour and Welfare Council, I think it's the right way to pay this kind of attention to these collectives. So, I think that subject doesn't even end on the 30th, but we can keep talking about it, trying to collaborate as we have always done. But also what moves us from the collectives – again, I repeat, from those who want to come to talk to us – is the subject of the approvals, the acceptance that, in general terms – has been well described in his speech by Mr. Puy – but that since the Government of the Union we urge that this approval be four years and that allow the tax obligations that can in each case be lifted to be derived from the individualization of those obligations that I have commented on a moment ago. But we also urge the Ministry to speed up all pending returns on the subject of returnees in that concept of both fines and penalties and recharging. The deadline is about to end, but I encourage everyone who has not yet done so to do so, and I reiterate collaboration, as it cannot be otherwise, as we have done, done and will continue to do, through our Tax Agency. Always – and not enough – we value how much we achieve among all – you and us, the Government – in tax matters regarding returned migrants; because, we value Law 16/2014, with this period of regularization so important and so often we tend to forget. We always said we weren't in any way in front of a fraud collective. And, allow me one thing, Mrs. Churches, when I spoke, I made certain speeches, certain people who were in Bremen, who deserve all my respect. This one tells them even a little more years, but in this case it wasn't in Bremen, but in Hannover, where my father was from 1962 until 1997. I mean, that, therefore, certain lessons, few of them all. So, as I told you, Junta has always kept an active commitment to these collectives, and proof of that is the...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u264	Thank you very much, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u265	...the data that has just been given, of which we are fully convinced that they mark our line to keep walking. Because we have to listen, collaborate...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u266	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u267	...and to help and not so much excitement, mobilization and propaganda. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Interpellation of G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the evaluation of the results of the policy followed in the field of local administration
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u268	You have the floor, to formulate the appeal, Mr. José Luis Méndez Romeo, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u269	Madam President. Counsellor, I am somewhat impressed by the words that have just been heard concerning the people who this morning had to manifest themselves after years waiting for a positive response from the Government, who has breached their commitments in this House. Mr Vice-President, the municipal elections of last month certified the massive rejection of urban policies led by its Government in Galicia: one third of its voters in urban areas gave them their backs. Therefore, of the 22 Greek municipalities that pass from the 20,000 inhabitants, you will only rule in 6; and if you expand the focus and observe the municipalities that pass from 10,000 inhabitants, 57, there will only be a popular mayor in 15. It's a fairly clear and generalized result, it indicates the rejection of general, economic and social politics, but it also collects the absence of urban policies, a historical characteristic of the People's Party of Galicia. A few weeks ago, at the control session, I reminded the President of the Board of Directors of his commitments to municipalism, all of which, from the new law of promised local administration, failed until the modification of the municipal plant with already abandoned fusion processes. Now, hastily and improvisedly, every week they'll find out what to do, they'll act against the evictions, only last year in Galicia were 2,500, you didn't find out, they handled 43 cases, even though they announced 500 available housing. Now they correct; even if it's late, welcome to be that correction. And it would be even better if they could talk to the municipalities and coordinate policies. It goes against its authoritarian style, but it's essential to cooperate, because soil and housing policies have an obvious local dimension. Over the last few years, this group has introduced the non-existent social housing policy into the parliamentary debate on more than 10 occasions. You, insensitive, have rejected all our proposals, but housing policy has been systematically eliminated from the Government's action. In six years they left without running 267 million euros, now they announce that they will be rectified here as well. As they are correcting to reduce the current taxes on real estate: during the worst years of the crisis they kept the highest figures to increase the collection despite the general fall in market prices. A horrifying greed phenomenon that has already been reported here. They remember the banks, too. At the moment you despised the situation of real estate assets in the hands of the bank, they chose to transfer them to Sareb, who immediately assisted them with Voitre funds like Cerberus and Apollo. Thus, in many cases housing paid with public loans was misused to funds specializing in real estate capitalisations, prior to the removal of tenants. You have avoided the establishment of a public social housing estate, which would also be a market stabilizer, and designed a ruinous operation for the public interest. An act at least immoral, with 50,000 annual defeats in Spain. In the coming days, by the way, we'll re-test your commitment to social housing. We will present a proposal for more impetus to the housing and we look forward to knowing the meaning of your vote. His main strategy with the municipalities was harassment. The central government wanted to reduce local public spending, to eliminate thousands of conciliators and to withdraw powers in favour of Members. They made a terrible law, they created such a problem that the rule had to be disabled, but they left pending the problems we saw in the interrogation this morning. The precariousness of the provision of services has been installed specifically in the welfare services. His great innovations, such as standard cost and service assessment, are still in the box of clever but useless ideas today. As history has passed its great project of city hall fusion. It was called a leading initiative in Spain and ended up abandoned on the facade of old furniture. And we still have the epitome of the Vigo metropolitan area, the first in Europe that doesn't count on the metropolis. Perhaps they wanted to lose the elections in Vigo roundly. Once you've achieved it, you'll have to start talking respectfully to the stairway metropolis, taking into account their demands and rearranging the action of the Board, unless you've understood the message of the polls and you want to be able to leave, in services and more in investments, the first Greek council. [[Applause]] Of course, to propose metropolitan policies, we must rely on the economic drive and social dynamism of cities, and overcome the administrative vision of competences. But if Spain's best example is in the metropolitan project of Bilbao, which even integrates the private initiative, and where the fruits are spectacular! You refused to integrate urban and urban transport into a single offer that could overcome the current obstacles. In Galicia, urban public transport lost, only last year, 10 million passengers, 17%, when Spain grew, at the same time, by 3%. Because the current structure of concessions does not match people's mobility needs. There are no integrated urban and interurban services, no services suitable for large business polygons, neither universities nor other attractions, be assistants, like hospitals, or leisure. Do you know, Mr. Vice President, what does a university student have to do that lives on the outskirts of one of the big cities and wants to go on public transport to campus? Absolutely not feasible. Its response in these years has been to extend concessions for ten years, contrary to Community guidelines, and at the same time not to do anything relevant. Because it's not enough with the single ticket and the new marquees, it's necessary to adapt lines and frequencies to demand and exceed the limits of concessions. And here too are examples of good practice in Spain. There were no relevant actions in the regeneration of urban tissue in cooperation with the municipalities, and there were no changes in the provision of services. One example: in the face of European trends, incineration remains the only alternative to waste treatment that you see. Something hardly compatible with growing environmental culture. In addition, the rates for waste treatment increased disproportionately to the municipalities and, subsidiaryly, to the neighbours, without dialogue and without forecast to increase treatment. So today, a growing fraction of waste is being sent to dumps without plans for the future. And in a provocative way, you periodically invite the troubled municipalities to go somewhere else. Are they asking them to come up again and multiply the spills? The necessary solutions here also involve the cooperation of administrations. As for the Members of Parliament, you have announced a strategy of unifying priorities between Members and Together, with no results to date. Mr. Vice-President, we started a new road in local governments; many have changed, but the problems are the same. Doubt is what the position of Join will be on this new walk. Will there be a stage of dialogue and cooperation or will they continue to be installed in distancement and incomprehension? Mr. Vice-President, Galicia of the Future is a Galician which, as we see it, is rapidly concentrating its population on a certain number of municipalities. The solutions will not come by administrative measures to amend the plant or by measures based on the division of current powers. They will have to come, as is happening throughout Europe around us, by means of cooperation solutions, by means of integration solutions and by a different view than is the role of each administration in the urban fabric. Nothing else on this shift.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u270	Thank you, Mr. Méndez Romeo. Response from the Vice-President and President's Adviser, Public Administrations and Justice.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u271	Good morning, gentlemen. Mr. Méndez Romeo, I understand you make this inquiry because, as you say, and it is true, there have just been elections and a new walk in the local administration begins. So I understand you have to worry about the local administration every four years and you're going to ask me this question every four years. Well, I don't know where each one will be, but I think the local administration needs to worry not every four years, but ask a question every time a new stage begins. All right, but this has to be done day by day, and you've been responsible for the local administration -- we'll talk about it, too -- but I think the truth is that it's the first time, and I appreciate you taking an interest in the local administration and in the union relations with the local administration, at least in this legislation. Tell me why we have to change because there was a massive rejection in the urban areas of the policies of the People's Party. Well, look, I, seeing that you are irrelevant in Pontevedra, irrelevant in Ourense, irrelevant in Santiago, irrelevant in the Coruña, with reels in Lugo not to be irrelevant, in Ferrol also irrelevant but they have entered the government, in Vigo they are not irrelevant, we already recognize him from the very first moment, but I think there you have little to tell your mayor... If there's a failure in the urban headquarters, you'd have to look at yourself before you think about how it was with the others. Since they don't want to look, I suppose they'll be the same or worse the next time. We do look, we do want to react and, therefore, we do want to do things. You ask me about a general balance, you do a series of general exhibitions that have to do with the relationship of Together with the Town Councils, and then you ask a very concrete question, which is what valuation makes Galician board about our policy on local administration. Well, look, I hope it's better than the Fegamp did -- president, by the way, by a socialist mayor -- the last time -- there might have been a lot more, but the last time -- that was pronounced, to your demands, when you, by the way, were responsible for the local administration. He said in the last report of the Fegamp, which is October 2008 – in the last report before the elections of 2009 – that an intolerable concentration of powers was taking place in autonomous power, which clearly injures local autonomy and which seems – Fegamp's opinion, I insist, chaired by a socialist mayor –, it seems that the intention of the autonomous Government is to convert local powers into simple, and certainly uncomfortable, collaborators of the Galician Union. I, of course, this valuation... would go glorious, Mr. Méndez Romeo!, considering that, in addition, they had 2,000 million euros more in the budget. I, of course, don't want this balance or this relationship with the councils for my government, nor do I expect it to be so. That same question of what valuation does you make of it, indeed – you said it in your intervention – to the President of the Council of Galicia and he has already told our assessment, by the way, and of course, always improved, as it could not be less. We generally believe that it is positive, at a particularly difficult time in which, indeed, it is not only about money, of course, it is about ideas, ideas, administrative bets to vary a lot of things, but it is also about having resources to help the municipalities. And, of course, we can't forget in any case that this government, since the year 2009, has had another €2,000 million and therefore an important part also in order to serve the municipalities. But with all this, Mr. Méndez Romeo, we have maintained the Local Cooperation Fund, which I think is very important. Here was a lot of talk about the little help to the municipalities of Galicia by the board. Look, if we were to follow your model, we would have to have dropped EUR 5 million each year, that is, EUR 23 million in this period, according to the model you left us, that they said it was what was worth, what was to be applied, the percentages, respect them. We've respected them, and yet we've been making up for that 21 million-euro mermaid. We have also created – when we talk about few resources and have diminished the resources of the Galician Union is not true – the Environmental Compensation Fund. Finally, the municipalities can benefit from wind wealth. So far you've talked a lot, you've said a lot of things, even this morning, but the municipalities didn't receive anything at all. They received, Mr Méndez Romeo, EUR 137 million during these years, which go directly to environmental investments in the Greek municipalities, often managed by them directly. We also try – and I think this is an administrative culture of relationship and cooperation – to simplify everything that has to do with the process between Union and municipalities, to unify it, to give it more transparency. And I think we would be right when the State Court of Auditors said that the Greek councils were among the most fulfilling local authorities in Spain, with a 10-point percentage of accountability above the state average. I think something would have to look at the changes that have been made in common agreement between the Galician Union and the municipalities. Many new lines of grant have been made. We respect, of course, all that you've left, the ones you've left, of course. We didn't do what some of their fellow governmentmen did when they arrived, which directly removed many of the subsidies, simply because they weren't of the political color they thought fit them, and we made many new orders. Without sectarianism, without seeing the political color, as seen – and the numbers I think they can't fool anyone – during the years of the bipartisan. And I think there are figures, like those of the Lugo Parliament, for example, that we always said, and I think that's also a model of the relationship between parliament and clearly improved municipalities. It can't be that a very small number of municipalities take a huge part of the resources of a parliament and it turns out that that small number of municipalities are from the Socialist Party, and that huge part of parliamentary resources are being attracted to most of the municipalities, which are from the People's Party. I think that's also relationship, that's transparency, and that's things that shouldn't happen. Have we improved the relationship in other things? Of course. Incorporated to the Law of the Land, the allegations that defended Fegamp. Fegamp didn't have to say that we were trying to invade their skills and that they were uncomfortable collaborators, as they said about you. The management of 72 health centres was, of course, assumed. I'm saying that because this morning it was said that social resources were impoverished. You guys made a local pact in 2006 that we applauded, and we said that was the way, but we had to develop it. But the truth is that we arrived in 2009 and there were zero health centers transferred from the municipalities to the Junta de Galicia. There were none, there were the health centers there, they kept generating expenses, but the Galician Union, with budgets – I insist – much greater than we had, had not taken any. The Social Services Agency has been streamlined. You can't have the municipalities sign an agreement where they say they have to take 30%, never tell them what's appropriate and what's going to be done with that debt and finally have to get it fixed for us. This is already rationalized, a very important part – almost 50% – has been forgiven to many municipalities and is now secured a stable model of social services provision between the Union and the municipalities. It was also linked with Fegamp's emergency map of Galicia, which has, by the way, been endowed with many more means this year. They started... you were referring to Galician metropolitan transport plans. Hey, that's not true. Of course it's better, of course it's a dynamic transport, and of course it needs to be further developed. But, look, it's very difficult when a council, for example, like Vigo didn't just want to enter with the argument that they were going to benefit equally and the solidarity between the municipalities wasn't going to the Vigo Council, and therefore that the neighbors of the rest of the municipalities had paid for the displacement of the Vigo neighbours. That's very hard to get to agreements, but we'll get to it the same way. By the way, you were talking about the metropolitan area. Welcome to finally! To see if it's true, to see if it's true the spirit of collaboration of the mayor of Vigo in his position, publicly manifested, of developing the law of the metropolitan area. Listen, it was developed by the Galician Union, pushed it and approved it. Then the Vigo Town Hall didn't want to give it to you. See if this new position of the mayor of Vigo now serves to unlock and serves to really provide metropolitan services. No one believes more in the provision of metropolitan services – that is to say, Mr. Méndez Romeo, in the provision of services together between Galician Union and the municipalities, but all working in common – than this government. Let's see if it's true that this time it is going and Vigo's metropolitan area, the first in Galicia, can be a reality. It is not, Mr. Méndez Romeo, to say that you have done absolutely nothing and that we have done everything. Hey, this would have to be a process. We'd have to take each of you what you did before and develop it to keep moving forward; and that's where we should take it. Of course! if you deny that we have done absolutely nothing, I have to tell you where your progress is. I return to the local Covenant: where is what we said, that we applaud and to what we give a vote of confidence?; where is the emergency map of Galicia and the municipal rapid intervention groups, which you promised to assume in four years and have spent four years and nothing has been assumed at all?; where is a true map of social services to ensure the sustainability of those services in collaboration between the municipalities and the Galician Union? Nothing was done at all of that, it was not done at a time when there were plenty of resources to be able to do it. You tell me about the mergers. Look, we already know what you think of mergers: they don't want them. With the little mouth they say yes, which is modern, because they know that people generally agree with, at least, considering that process, but then they do everything possible to boycott it. They just proved it by putting sticks on the wheels at the first merger, not in Galicia, all over Spain. As bad as the neighbors of Oza-Cesuras seem to have another view different from that of you and believe that fusion was good, it went forward. He just got the mayor of Oza-Cesuras an absolute clear majority, in front of his postulates, which, if true, I suppose would lead to a ravine of those who didn't want the merger. So we're going to go on, whether you want it or not, because we believe in that new map, because we believe that this is the future, making it voluntary, stimulating it and reaching agreements. Some of their mayors and mayors of other political parties who are not from the People's Party said in an election campaign that they believed in that model, that they thought they had to go around. Let's see if those campaign proposals are still going on. Of course, the Galician Union will be there and I hope you're there. We will also speak in the replica of our collaboration with the deputies; not, of course, with the sectarianism that has shown the Deputy of Lugo during these years. And I'm here to throw a tender hand, now that, as you say, a new stage begins. It's true, but it's not to wake up every four years, a new stage begins, and the Galician Union, the government that governs, will have to collaborate with the municipalities, it will have to collaborate with the deputies and I hope that, above political colors, this collaborative offer will be taken into account for the benefit of the neighbours and neighbours of Galicia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u272	Thank you, Vice President. Joint Parliamentary Group. Mrs. Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u273	Good afternoon to all and to all. Good afternoon, Counselor. You just said here that the mayors lie, including the mayors of the People's Party. It's all a lie, the local administration never worked better, nor had any more money, no more means to care for the population, and mayors and mayors are all liars in this country. The Greek Councils accused the economic crisis, but the Union, the Central Government and the MPs continued to apply the same recipes and look elsewhere. It's more, they drowned the municipalities even more. All these years, there has been a disillusion from the Union with the main issues affecting local corporations, in addition to chronic discrimination depending on who had ruled in each county, and the cuts that came with the crisis. And I don't say so, so prominent municipalists as Xaquín Álvarez Corbacho, who has just pointed out in his last book, democratic education or barbarism, the methods of the old policy of caciquism that exchange favours for votes, as we have all known in this country, and denounced and visualized on images more than once on television; of course, not on public television in Galicia. Only in this traditional working line of the People's Party does it make sense to strengthen the power of the deputies through the central government, without the coming of the Union today, the updating of Galicia's Local Administration Act. The main disillusionment of the Government of the United States is clearly presented in the economic sections of the Budgets of the United States of Galicia to serve the councils since the PP's re-governance in 2009. There is a sharp drop in transfers to the municipalities of the Local Cooperation Fund and the transfers of the municipalities to serve different services. But there's also chronic disillusionment when the Board does not assume the costs of services rendered improperly by the local administration or at the opening of new ones. And of course, there are almost two legislates since this challenge was taken over through the local Covenant. We are no longer talking about new centres for children, new health centres, new centres for the care of the elderly, where the management of the People's Party is absent when most is needed, precisely when the more we cut the field of action to the municipalities in these areas. On the other hand, if we evaluate how the fight against forest fires or fires in buildings is going to confirm I'll see you again. Today – I think it was, or yesterday, I don't remember anymore – we talk about precisely these deficiencies in fire services. Do you know where I miss you? On the way to the oligopolisic privatization of municipal services. So they're interested in privatizing everything that public services are. For this reason, they are ready to deposit power in the management of municipal services of municipalities of less than 20,000 inhabitants in the provincial deputies. In a few years, if we let them go, we can have a closed core of private companies controlling the niche of the water cycle business or waste treatment. In my opinion, this is a total irresponsibility, because we already see that an example like Sogama ends up. At the bottom of the Sogama canon did not even give local authorities, holders of competition on the collection and treatment of urban solid waste, the opportunity to be heard. In addition, the right to effective judicial custody of local authorities by means of a single or singular law. Does it really not make them rubies that the Constitutional is studying the likely unconstitutionality of the rise of the canon imposed by the Galician Union? Is this the model they're testing to put to the service of business profit the different municipal public services of hundreds of municipalities? The next question is discrimination. I understand that discrimination comes from the fervor of support. Thus, the Local Cooperation Fund remains frozen, rather than increasing in order to bring investment capacity and autonomy to the municipalities. Of course this aspiration of the local pact remained in the ink! Moreover, the Board of Governors incorporates year by year into the smallest transfers every year that councils share with absolutely discretionary criteria year by year, especially in election years like this. So, for the sake of transparency, have you ever thought that corporations benefiting from subsidies, especially in the election year, would report to Parliament on those funds that are being brought in favour of them? Why do they use them? Because, in principle, they are used, uniquely and exclusively, to give publicity to the People's Party. In addition, the Government must have particularly noticed the participation of the municipalities in the management of services because, with the excuse of efficiency, they have hastily liquidated the municipalities' participation in the Social Services Consortium Directive. And let's not talk about the elaboration of the Land Law, or the application of urban legislation, so that the Union ignores the municipalities, but compels them to act. Now also, as a last question, the cuts. Let us set an example that qualifies the local policy of anecdotal employment since the People's Party has occupied power in a central government union. In 2009, there were 75 million euros for hiring unemployed persons in cooperation programmes and for local development through employment agents, approached by the German Government and the Central Government. In 2012 Junta reduced its approach to only EUR 330,000. Then, Rajoy, imitating Feijóo, and the state reduces the transfer to 553,198 euros. From 75 million to something less than a million in total. To be able to hire more than 7,000 unemployed and unemployed for six months to be able to hire 14. At the same time, local employment policy instruments, employment agents and local initiatives have been eliminated. From our perspective and after the changes that have taken place in the last local area, we are committed to the creation of a European Local Cooperation Fund, to create a plan to guarantee minimum income managed from the municipalities. Only the municipalities can transparently complement the certification of the circumstances of exclusion and great social and labour precariousness, especially in the consideration of dependents. To cooperate with Fegamp in a municipal plan against energy poverty that prevents the cutting-off of home supplies, which you constantly deny our country's energy poverty. That's right, they're experts in inventing formulas not to name what exists. In addition, Junta should collaborate in the use of public public transport: buses, proximity trains or, for example, river transport, and discourage the use of private transport. There's a clear intention not to do so on the part of Junta, especially in rail transport. I don't know what the problem with rail transport is, but the chaos in our country is studying. Of course, if they want to load rail transport, it's very clear. There's something as easy as it makes no sense now that these trains take an hour and a half from Vigo to Compostela, when we have a faster train. And the only thing to do is to train nearby from the villages they don't have, where not to get to the fast train, as far as to go. From Round it up to Pontevedra, trains every quarter of an hour, or at least when the train arrives fast. And a lot of problems are eliminated, lots of traffic. But you're really interested in winning the big oligopolies of the fuels and, like not!, the Audasa, who is fueling the base of stealing money from the Greek people. Because they'll tell me why we want the work being done on Rande's bridge. Of course, the beams and the beams didn't ask for it. Don't do that! So they come to the beach in summer for two months, and we have a dead river transport, dead!, no boats to cross the river, no bus when you get to the other side of the river. How many people in the Morrazo work in Vigo and you have to drive because you don't have a river transport? Because you don't want to have river transport, because you don't want a nearby train. All they want to do is keep doing business with their friends and, of course, leave the municipalities unprotected to be the deputies and the state that governs Galicia. Because you're only the representatives of the Government of Madrid in Galicia. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u274	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. Mrs. Peace.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u275	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Vice-President. We have, through this interpellation, the opportunity to analyze the policy of the Galician Union in relation to the local administration, not only as regards its behaviour but also as a main one, as regards the results it offers for the whole of citizenship. If I may, I would like to define with five words the action of the Galician Union in this respect from the point of view of the Galician Nationalist Block. The first, claudication; the second, sectarianism; improvisation; incompetence; and confusing the term collaboration between administrations with taxation to other administrations. And allow me now to tear one down on one of these qualifiers. First of all, claudication. You, as vice-president of this government and as head of local administration, have locked up before your party – because it was not before the State Government but it was before your party, before the party of what is also, besides, general secretary here, in the Galician colony – when the so-called Local Administration Sustainability Act was processed, Law 27/2013. On the one hand, you have committed yourself to Fegamp, to the Greek councils and to this Parliament, to defending before the State its position, the position of the municipalities, which consisted, essentially, of not usurping their competences, which respected the Statute of autonomy of Galicia, which respected Galicia's ability to structure its own territory from an administrative point of view, and which allowed us to establish a local administration appropriate to our characteristics and the needs of our citizens. You, while I was here saying that I was going to defend this position in Madrid, it was time for you to get to the joint commission in the Senate and shut down. And they were once again claused when, once the law was published, we in this Parliament repeatedly asked them to present an appeal for unconstitutionality due to breach of the precepts contained in Galicia's Statute of Self-Government and you did not present it, they refused to submit that appeal. Sectarism, sectarianism and discretion in the functioning of the Administration. Because look, Mr. Rueda, it's not like you've ever reduced the extent of the fact that through different orders of aid you've been given to the local administration. Moreover, I can strongly state that the large amounts of resources in many games were not even made in competitive competition. Or can you tell me, for example, that an agreement signed between the Labour and Wellness Counsellor and the Deputy of Ourense, by virtue of which the Union allocated EUR 3.7 million theoretically for social services and the hiring of unemployed – in practice to continue favouring and expanding the client network of the People's Party in Ourense and, in addition, making illegal transfer of workers to the councils and, in addition, a clear intromission of the Deputy, at the height of 2012, in a matter of which it was not competent as social services – does that mean that this agreement was made through competitive competition? Do you mean to tell me that the 92 municipalities in Ourense province agreed that, at the same time as you cut them all and each of the social services games – from the home aid service, drug addictions, job promotion, employment workers and in all areas – they agreed that you had given Mr Baltar 3.7 million euros to make customerism? Did the 92 mayors, including those of the People's Party, agree? Or can you tell me, Mr. Vice-President of the Galician Council, that you came out here saying that everything was so transparent and so fair to the municipalities? Because the above may be a political valuation, but what I'm going to tell you next isn't a political valuation, it's a judgment. I know you don't like the judgments of the High Court of Justice because they don't feel judicial; what are we going to do with them? A judgment in relation to the home help service, which you have not only cut but through this judgment becomes manifest that you have used in a sectarian and discretionary manner. This sentence condemns them to pay him what they owe the Brollon Poor Town Hall, which you gave him 44,000 euros for the home aid service when they had to give him ten times more. And the judgment, on its legal grounds, speaks of power diversion, speaks of that you have changed in practice, in your application, the basis of the summons on the march, of that there has been a manipulation of those bases and that the legal requirements have not been met. And he says that this practice referred to the Brollon People reproduces another one referred to the Council of Riotorto; what a chance, what a chance, Mr. Vice-President of the Galician Union! That is why I say: political sectarianism in the use of public resources. Improvise and incompetence. Once, in a debate about the state of the nation, the president of the Galician Union had little to announce to us, because at that time the Greeks and the Greeks, and he took out the rabbit of the merger of the municipalities, announcing here that Ipso facto Oza and Cesures were to be merged and that that would be the beginning of a stream of mergers and changes in the territorial organization of our country. Look, Mr Vice-President, you are the author of the biggest chapuza that has been done in the administrative field in this country in connection with this merger. It has not only allowed, contrary to the criterion established by the Advisory Council, to use the majority that sets the law of the State and not the Welsh law to approve mergers. You, through an order signed by you, appointed a manager full of obscurantism and who did not comply with the Law of Parity. It was allowed to vote in the full cast to two gentlemen who were disabled by a court sentence for the exercise of public office. And you, Mr. Vice-President, who has sponsored this legislative chapouza, are the same vice-president who, for example, to other municipalities that are interested in merging, such as Alfoz and El Valadouro, repeatedly deny them that possibility. Even an action that was geared towards creating common infrastructures for these two municipalities as was the construction of a business park for both municipalities, you're the first thing they did when they got to Galician Union is what they like so much, which is cancelling programs, canceling projects and throwing it all down. As this merger didn't work out of the other rabbit's sleeve, which was that of collaboration and cooperation in the provision of common services by the municipalities, putting it as a variable in all call orders. I would like, Mr Vice-President, that you may one day come to this Parliament to realize the effectiveness of such measures in the aid orders. And let this Parliament tell us how many cases this collaboration and the provision of services in common is taking place. And above all, what benefits it has both in economic terms, in institutional terms and in terms of the provision of services for citizenship. Because, as much as we've already asked about it, we don't get an answer. Tax against collaboration. Look, Mr Vice-President, there is no area – where there are areas of competence shared between different administrations – in which you establish a loyal relationship of collaboration and dialogue with different administrations to reach agreements. If we're talking about provincial consortiums of firemen, it has to be a "strike": or you assume the formula that says the Galician Privatization Board of Services or there's no participation by the Galician Board. If we're talking about the municipal emergency groups, another one's buying it!: you decide how, when, where and how many gentlemen or ladies are part of these municipal emergency groups, in which council they have their residence, and therefore on whom they depend functionally and organicly. If it comes to waste, another "tragala": or forms part of the Fenosa business in Sogama or, if you want to establish some kind of alternative model...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u276	It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u277	...of waste management, you don't have a weight on Galician board. And the same thing could be said about the law by which the sanitation canon is created. And the same could be said of his failure, more than extreme, in relation to metropolitan transport. You're the only one who did it was to expand it in 2010, by law, the monopoly of concessions, which is one of the great problems for this country...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u278	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u279	...we can't have a transport service that will reverse the territory and, above all, allow people living in villages to have some mobility. What they did was – free, in exchange for nothing – continue to feed that monopoly monster. So, Mr. Vice-President, as far as local administration is concerned, I have to give you more than a slap...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u280	Thank you. Thank you, Mrs. Paz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u281	...I don't know if by September you can recover this matter. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u282	Thank you, Mrs. Paz. Parliamentary Group of the Left Galician Alternative. Mrs. Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u283	Good afternoon, Vice President of the Board. Well, the truth is, I don't stop being surprised every time you come here, for the first reason. Certainly, Vice-President, the normal thing would be that, in view of this very relevant subject, without prejudice to the Socialist Party's interference – which is very well-behavioured – the truth is, if we made a balance of the appearances that you have made, because we could check how almost always they are repeated. And true and true is that, with such a big and so relevant responsibility for this country as it is, quite rightly, that of local administration, I do here is a call, if you have to pick it up, without prejudice to the limitations we have – regulatory – so that you can achieve the reality that you are appearing so, of course, that you come up with your own motto so that we can render accounts – you – and we interact to make a serious balance about what has just happened in the local administration of our country. I'm saying this because I think it's strict, I mean, it seems like the little sister of a macro-counselry you're holding. And I'm saying the little sister because probably, if we've taken a gender balance since the People's Party came back to rule this country, because it seems you remembered that there was a responsibility that had to do with the municipalities little less than a little before the municipal elections. And secondly, I don't know if... I'll say it again, even if I get tired. When you come here again to oppose Mr. Méndez Romeo for he is very well, i.e., go on that way. What happens is that I suppose, I think, that you have already opposed Mr. Méndez Romeo when Mr. Méndez Romeo was counsellor. Now it's fine, but it seems like a lack of respect for this country that six years later you come back here even to make nominally balance specific issues of that government of the bipartisan. I mean, I mean, it's mainly because it's also one part of what's being questioned these days, and it's just that people are tired of doing politics. I know I'll say this again and you'll do the same, you'll come back and oppose the bipartisan instead of rendering accounts of the good and evil that you're managing. As for that determination which has shown Mr. Méndez Romeo, who acts in cooperation with the new governments and others, I presume it will be so. I assume it will be so, and I suppose you'll have the height of sufficient, sufficiently relevant, of this country, and of course they'll remove the T-shirt from the People's Party. I want to think it's gonna be like this. And if it isn't, surely the tide will end you democratically in a definitive way. Because what is obvious is that the first measures that are taking these new governments in this country are, of course, absolutely satisfactory for the people who are suffering the consequences of the policies that you have taken. So I assume you're going to take off the People's Party T-shirt, you're going to have a look at it and, of course, you're going to cooperate with these new governments and you're going to facilitate all these new policies that these new governments are putting on the table. Having said what, of course, plays to do as a kind of balance of what you've done up here. And the truth is, there are already first issues that forcefully attract attention, and in case you'd come here to render accounts, it would certainly be worth a correction for your side. And I'm particularly talking about a serious, serious problem in this country, which is the problem of desertification that they have, particularly, the vast majority of the municipalities in this country that are very small. But I am speaking indeed of a failed policy, which, as much as you say here a thousand times, Mr. Rueda, has failed and deserves you to reconsider what he said. And it's just that the voluntary merger of municipalities was a failure, Mr. Rueda, it was a failure: you managed to merge a council voluntarily and it was a failure for a problem that – I insist – is very relevant to this country. It is very relevant, as is indicated by the Council of Europe itself, and – you know it and previously quoted it – relevant municipal experts, indeed, point out that the provision of public services in the municipalities below 10,000 inhabitants is extremely difficult. Of course, action must be taken, indeed, to achieve another kind of relationship between the municipalities of our country! What happens is that these same experts are pointing out that voluntary merger, in fact, does not serve and, in addition to not serving, is – I insist – a failure. I think I'd honor you for coming here, for the evidence that it's a failure, and I said, we were wrong in this policy, six years ago, and I managed to merge... by the way, small councils. I mean, if you told me we're merging Ferrol and Naron because we're still... but we're actually talking about issues that, of course, are absolutely more than questionable. Secondly, I want to take stock of your policies, particularly in Program 141A, of what you are also responsible for. Part of this program, which calls for optimization and improvement of the management of services to citizenship, I'm going to talk here about what I'm talking about for the local administration of this country and what I'm suggesting, for example, in terms of workers and public workers linked to the local administration. And that, indeed, I assumed – according to data I already quoted in the morning of the Staff Bulletin for the service of public administrations – important redundancies in Galicia: from 31,563 people employed in the local administration to 25,252. Mr. Rueda, therefore, there is also a process that you are following, indeed, of dismissals or of ERE through the back door, which are whispering, it is up to, even more, the cycle, the countercyclical policies of a crisis that – I say again – is not a crisis, it is not such, it is a scam. So far from helping, what they're doing is impoverishing people even more. Secondly, indeed, there has been a lot of talk here about the subsidies and, well, I want to denounce what has happened to the subsidies, first, by reducing them, and secondly, by following all those data, we went from a stage where there was a total grant of EUR 241.7 million to now EUR 93.8 million; it is true that this year, as there were municipal elections, 113 million, but surely the cut was massive. And surely, Mr. Rueda, what we would have to do is question what subsidies are and how to approach these subsidies in an opaque manner in local administrations. Why do I say that? You know – and earlier the companion Chelo Martínez quoted him – that fact that facilitates Mr Xaquín Álvarez Corbacho, Professor of Applied Economics. Indeed, it has issued a report at the Board of Auditors itself on subsidies issued by both the PP governments and other governments, and indeed it has prevented the publication of that report because it fades the colors, because indeed those subsidies would be directed mostly and casually to municipalities that have the People's Party shirt, right? Indeed, there are issues that are absolutely appealing or we believe that nothing has been done on your part – and should be reconsidered – as is the topic of local funding. And the one about local funding we've dealt with on one occasion in the Committee on Economics, when Galicia is exactly in the state's last position on total tax revenues. Exactly, we are at EUR 386.13 and, exactly, Mr Rueda, we have to do pedagogy for many factors, which also have to see in them the tax culture of the municipalities, in order to change this reality, go change this reality and let it, indeed, be through own income and not – I insist – subsidies, as if you are doing, that we really have this reality. Data that are quite relevant, for example, in the municipalities of our country where there is no fiscal convergence; i.e., only 35% of municipalities can say that they have regularized this situation; the remaining 65%, no; and of that 35% of municipalities could say that practically all are the big cities. In fact, then everything that has to do with a law that you not only applauded but consumed in Galicia, which has to do with a massive attack on this country's municipalism. And what is it that I certainly think you don't believe in the municipality more than like a real customer network.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u284	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u285	If you don't, you can't understand what you're doing. And indeed, specific policies, that is, everything that has to do with resource planning, which has to do with the only way of incineration of waste in this country – when you know the public health consequences it has – there is no alternative or planning by the Galician board, or even the permit to choose another model. You were talking before the Wellness Agency. Well, the Wellness Counsellor came in the morning, and she told us she was talking about 33% right now; you complained about 30% of the previous one, and we're 33%. But that's not all. There are a lot of elements that, of course, the new councils will incorporate on the table, Mr Counsellor, as it has to do with, for example, remunicipalizing services – and ending – a question that is reflecting the Court of Auditors itself, the consequences that it is having, for example, the privatization of public water services, in which you have to act differently. So we regret, or if you want to take, of course, the word, that you take it; but of course, we think you should come here to examine what has been done in this matter. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u286	Thank you, Mrs. Díaz. People's Parliamentary Group. Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u287	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Well, today we put up an interpellation by the Socialist Party on local politics and it is surprising that it is the Socialist Party that shows this concern after attending the dantesque show of the last few days after the municipal elections on May 24. A show where we saw the interpretation of different theatrical works, although the best view was At half light the three, in various municipalities and deputations of our autonomous community. We saw the absolute resignation of their electoral proposals for a single purpose: to block the People's Party's entry into institutions. You don't care... [[Mr. Losada Álvarez pronounces words that are not perceived.]] If you want to be the spokesman, ask your group for permission. I really feel like I won't let you talk, Mr. Losada, I feel like I won't let you talk, but, look, this is going like this, so ask your spokesman for permission. Because, of course, we're always the same. [[Murmurs.]] Here when some talk others listen, and if you want to be the voicer, you know, ask your group to let you. [[Murmurs.]] Look, I was saying that all you care about is the share of power that can be achieved in municipal institutions. Because you opted for the chromium change policy, gave up your electoral program, asked for a habeas corpus and were released from your program in less than 72 hours after 24-M. There is no flag of Spain that fixes all the mistakes that have been made in the last month, however large it is the plasma that is behind, in front and on the sides; there is no flag of Spain that arranges that the mayors' governments have seized from their consistories. They have deceived citizenship in general and their voters in particular. [[Applause]] Where they said they were going to open the school dining halls in summer, now they say they won't because children without resources are stigmatized. That, the government of Compostela, where it merged Left United, where it merged Anova and where the Socialist Party abstained to power this mayor who now says this. Where they said remunicipalize services, Mrs. Díaz – which you may not be aware of – but Mr. Noriega has already said he would not, he has said that it cannot be done, because, of course, there are state rules that prevent him. And then Mr. Noriega hasn't been mayor for eight years, didn't he know those rules? What do you mean, you didn't know that there are requirements of conditions that must be met? Of course, it's up to you to come here and tell Mr. Rueda to solve the problem of remunipalization of services. It's you who have to keep your election promises, but today they're already saying they won't. [[Applause]] Welcome to reality, gentlemen! [[Applause]] Welcome to reality! Or the proposal to end nepotism. We've seen, Mrs. Díaz, how can we and the United Left in Madrid have also received a mayor who in seven days goes if he has given us rectifiers. And the last week of this week is that you hired a niece's husband by failing to comply with a staff regulation approved by the People's Party to prevent the positions of free appointment from being occupied by relatives. That's what they're doing now that they're ruling. Welcome to reality, Mrs. Díaz! Oscar Wilde said coherence is the last refuge for those without imagination. The truth is that your imagination has a lot, and coherence, the truth, which is very little. And from the new mayors who've been in charge of the county for a week, you know what their priority is? Well, look, their priority isn't to be defeated, their priority isn't to children without resources, their priority isn't to grow industry and create jobs. I'll tell you, Mrs. Díaz, what policies are on the table. Have you read the press in the last few days, since they took possession of the new mayors? Well, look, I carefully read to see what those policies were that you now demand from Mr. Vice President to help those new mayors. Well, look, your priority is to create a popular left force unit candidacy to compete in the next election period. His priority was to go from plato to national televisions – spoken Spanish, non-German, Mrs. Díaz – talking about the confluence of the plural and federal left to converge into spaces of dialogue and to conquer an institutional space of dialogue with citizenship and the participation and awareness of institutions – e blah, blah, blah, blah...–. His priority was to write a letter to the King's House to ask him not to invite them to real offerings, but, followed by, they send him another one to ask him to call the Royal Patronate. They said they didn't sell motorcycles in electoral campaign, but the mayor of Compostela has already hurried to say that the electoral promise that Santiago would be a city free of defection was an ad, a symbolic letter, a will, since the Town Hall has no competence in that matter, but the institution is aware of what is happening. Well, you've entered the municipal governments to raise awareness of institutions and not solve problems. Well, look, the People's Party, when it entered government, came in to solve people's real problems. And look, do you know what the policy of housing and evictions is, Mr Méndez Romeo – which I see is very much enjoying with my intervention –? Well, look, you came here to suck at the housing policy, when it's the parents of the express rejection and the super express rejection. Look, between 2007 and 2011, when the Socialist Party was ruling, 350,000 families, 350,000 families, were defeated in Spain. And, Mr. Méndez Romeo, may you come here to speak of defeats!, when there were holders of the Socialist Government in Madrid who said: "Never so quickly will you throw away the people of your houses," you said. For, since the People's Party entered the Government of the State, the first measure it took, the Royal Decree 6/2012, containing a code of good practice, the issue of donation paid, payment payments, social rent; then the Royal Decree Law 27/2012 of 15 November, with the creation of the social housing fund, the two-year moratorium for launches, which you know now has just passed another law to extend that moratorium to another two years, until the year 15. That's it, the State Government. What about the Galician Union? Well, look, with the Realoxo program, with the agreement of the Board, the Fegamp and the General Council of the Judiciary to warn of these cases that they may be in a position to launch to avoid them and to offer them other dwellings, as it has happened; the Reconduce program, to avoid the launch. Look, it's not a topic for now, it's been working on this topic for a long time, what happens is that you take the flag now and believe that the flags solve everything; and no: you have to do things. And you made them? And you know what they did? 350,000 families in the street, and still on top, pulling out that that was a question "How fast will the people get out of the house." Look, you didn't have election programs, you had sets of suggestions. And the truth is, I congratulate the Government of Greece for taking action measures, for solving problems, and not for raising awareness, for providing the municipalities with resources that benefit citizens, because people don't eat with awareness, people don't live in their homes from awareness, people need resources. And the Galician Union has just answered very well, Mr. Vice-President, which is what measures are being put in place. We can go to the Journal of Sessions, I remember a Journal of Sessions – today I reviewed it to remember what the exact words were, not to put the foot on – after the elections in Greece. Mrs. Díaz asked Mr. Feijóo a question and after the question she said, proudly, to President Feijóo: "Look at Greece, Mr. Feijóo, look at Greece, look at the example of Greece; Mr. Feijóo, we'd like to see it." No, Mrs. Díaz, no, we don't want to be Greece, and less a day like today. [[Applause]] You keep looking at those mirrors; your mirrors are actually moving from concave to convex, but, well, you keep looking at those mirrors. [[Applause]] Now, after she insults Mrs. Merkel so much, she gives her last chance at that mirror you're looking at, Mrs. Díaz. And we also looked at the Journal of Sessions to see how many times the previous Government had attended and to talk about the local pact. The truth is, Mr. Méndez Romeo, before coming to this rostrum to speak of local administration, I would recommend that you read again one of your interventions here when you were branch advisor. The truth is, you don't have to be opposed by the vice president. You yourself, if you read those statements you made in this gallery, you would smile, because you were talking about the need for the merger of municipalities, you were talking about the need for co-operation – from which Mrs. Paz spoke – you were talking about the solemn section of the local pact. It remained in that, in a solemn section, nothing but a section, because they completely broke the entire local covenant.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u288	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u289	Yes, Your Honor. Look, today you say that you are opposed to the former Government. Well, the truth is, with the data you just said, Mr. Vice President, we'd have to take a look at it. Because, look, you talked about the Local Cooperation Fund, you kept the EUR 113 million, the EUR 137 million for the Environmental Compensation Fund, you extended the grants from EUR 2 million to EUR 7.8 million, the Board assumed the management of 72 health centres. Do you remember what you said here at that appearance, Mr. Méndez Romeo? He said that in three years they had all assumed them, it was in 2006; in 2009, zero health centers assumed by the Galician Union. That was your proposal in the local pact, and so we could keep talking. And if we talk about claudication, sectarianism and so on, I'd tell Mrs. Peace that they're looking at what they're doing, that they co-governing the Deputy of Lugo, and that's what they give the Town Councils that govern the People's Party and those who rule the rest. 64 per cent of the municipalities of the Lugo Deputies are governed by the People's Party.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u290	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u291	You and the Socialist Party give them 6% of the budget. Is that your model, Mrs. Paz?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u292	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u293	Is that your model? Ours, of course not. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u294	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Replica. Mr. Méndez Romeo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u295	Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mrs. Prado, it seems to me that you in the theater poster stayed 40 years ago, perhaps not only in the theater poster. I'm sure if you keep making a storyteller of anecdotes in every county, you might be here for many days talking about topical issues. [[Murmurs.]] Mr. Vice-President, you're complaining that we're bringing you here a little bit to answer here, aren't you, as far as you've just seen, you have little to say. But your colleagues in Government have been here, at this group, on numerous occasions in this legislation, to talk about the relevant local problems, to talk about the non-existent housing policy, to talk about the non-existent transport policy, to talk about the problems that exist in the provision of services – I told you about the waste, you could talk about water, etc. – or to tell you about the deficits in the policy of cooperation between administrations. I understand that you don't come around here and therefore don't follow these subjects in detail. Mr Vice-President, look, you have reduced funding to the municipalities, from the year 9, by 40%, from 437 million to 290; in housing they have completely eliminated; in employment policies, by 62%; in land management, by 85; in trade, by 65; and in the agreed plan, by 70%. We started this morning at an earlier interpellation. In metropolitan transport, Mr. Vice-President, they reduced the direct subsidy to the municipalities by 60%, but they also eliminated the night transport – which had that beautiful name of Nightbus – but also the agreement with Renfe; overall, transport policies dropped by 77%. Hey, how is this about local policies? Fegamp. Fegamp has been asked to improve unconditional funding by incorporating some of the finalist grants. They refused. They refused the automatic transfer of the agreed Plan funds. They refused to provide stable funding for local employment technicians. They refused to analyze, at no public cost, the services of competition between Deputies, Town Councils and United States. Are they going to go on like this? They did not meet the demands of the major municipalities, which are the economic motors of Galicia, but neither of the urban areas nor of the rural areas. Are they going to continue like this in the future? But they've closed the dialogue channels. You've never called in legislation the Galician Local Cooperation Commission, never. He has paralyzed the commission of the local pact, which concerns Mrs. Prado so much. Look, this Parliament commissioned you to make a report on the future of local life in Galicia in 2012, you have the report kidnapped for a year ago, you could tell us something about it. I want to be constructive, Mr. Vice-President, precisely because a new stage begins. And this new stage needs cooperation, and not confrontation, from the mutual to the competences of each one; that's what will be for the benefit of citizens, economies of scale, etc. But a word about mergers. The worst problem in the rural world in Galicia is the worst endowment of services, which is what causes desertification, according to all known studies. And the concern of the citizens is not the fusion of the municipalities. It's more, anywhere you ask, citizens are reluctant because they fear it's the first step to lose services. Only in academic forums is defending a tax-based map. Any acquaintance in the local world will tell you that there is a need for dialogue and consensus to move forward on that path. That's why you didn't even try in this country, not even in this House. Where there is consensus is in the impulse of supralocal solutions. The new legislation that you have promoted has decided that the only formula of supra-local cooperation would again be the Member States. I don't think that's right. But, in any case, what is being imposed in all the countries around us are the supralocal solutions of variable geometry, according to the service that attempts to move forward. Are you guys gonna do something on this line? I want to remind you that we are talking about matters that are virgin in Galicia, in which almost nothing has been done, and which, however, is considered necessary at present. So at this point in the debate the only question is what will be the attitude of the Union in the next local legislation: whether they will continue this inaction in the face of local demands or whether they will assume a constructive and, above all, cooperative commitment.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u296	Thank you very much, Mr. Méndez Romeo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u297	And that would be a novelty in this country.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u298	Mr. Alfonso Rueda has the floor of the vice president and chairlor, public administration and justice.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u299	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, for trying to answer everyone. Mrs. Martínez, well, in the end, these things she said, it turns out we're doing the Rande Bridge – she's doing the Galician Union, you think – and nobody wants it in Vigo. Well, tell the mayor of Vigo, who is almost as delighted with the Rande bridge, with the enlargement, as with the roundabouts. And he said he was very in agreement with her, but it turns out that you interpret the will of the whole world and no one in Vigo wants that expansion. I have a lot of doubts about it, and with that I could sum up the many doubts I have of other things that he said in his intervention. Mrs. Peace, by following your points a little bit. He was talking about claudication. Listen! As Mr. Méndez Romeo said, we will try to be constructive. We have already said that in the Sustainability Act there were many things we didn't like, and we have offered all the groups of this House that had made contributions to try to transmit them, and in many things they have amended it, especially in the process of the Senate. You meant, indeed, I was summoned to the Senate, and there I also took advantage to say in a living voice many of the things we believed they had to incorporate into the amendments. And they incorporated not all of them, but if I think the law has improved, and then we've improved it, too, you didn't agree, they didn't, of course, make no contribution, they didn't take advantage of that opportunity. Then he also improved with that law that we did here to solve any doubts and ensure that services, especially basic services, would continue to lend themselves. They also voted against it, even though it was the same law, and then we were the first, but it went on in many other places, which made other autonomous communities, not exactly the People's Party. Tell me about sectarianism. I think with the example of the Deputy of Lugo: 6% of the municipalities, 67% of the grants, you support all that. It's very hard to hear you talk about sectarianism if you're in line with that. In any case, since you appointed the House of Ourense, hey!, what are we left with? Shouldn't all Members support social services? Do you know that this pact that was offered to you and that you signed three deputies – not Lugo's, as always, because you had to spend the money on very few counties of the Socialist Party – co-financed and therefore allowed basic social services to reach more municipalities? Is that sectarianism? Can't you support it? So, what exactly do the deputies have to be for? You're going to go in – or we'll see – to the Members you can, for what, if they don't have to serve to maintain absolutely no basic service of the small municipalities. He was talking to me about improvisation and incompetence on the topic of fusion, and they were all talking to me. Look! it's not true that you said it to Mrs. Díaz: no, it's that we fail in the mergers even though we support them and see them well, always and when it's not in small councils. Mrs. Díaz, they are as respectable as small councils as large councils. Since they started with a small council and with two mayors who were brave, we respected the size of the 314 municipalities in Galicia, and don't say that, total, as it was in small municipalities, if it was still in large municipalities, perhaps it would have to consolidate. You said that, Mrs. Díaz. But don't say you'd also favor them if they were well made, because they've been put on the wheel from the beginning. The focus was placed on the first municipal merger throughout the state – not only in Galicia – in many years, and that focus also lit opposition groups in Galicia by doing everything possible not to move forward. And it's less bad, as I told you before, that the neighbors of Oza and Cesuras are much smarter than some politicians believe, and they did know, probably because they are on the ground, the benefits that you deny from the beginning. I am also concerned that they criticize – or ignore directly – the wager for the joint provision of services. I was wondering Mrs. Peace what she was doing. But don't you really think it's good that the municipalities, because they don't want to merge in any case, they come together to provide services, they come together and therefore work together, and they can therefore improve the quality of the services they provide? I have a relationship here that I can perfectly facilitate. Hey!, they allowed in 34 municipalities joint promotion projects of the Welsh language, in 29 information centers to shared women who serve 111 municipalities, 18 drug addiction prevention projects that affect 83 municipalities, 29 job guidance technicians for 82 municipalities, and so we could go on with many projects. But do you really believe that we must also oppose the council's joining up and providing services, because they don't want, in any case, to merge, not even voluntarily? Because here we don't talk about forced mergers in any case. Not even voluntarily worth it to you, and they don't want you to cooperate either. There must be islands, minifonds, that don't talk between the municipalities and, therefore, that don't reach services that are increasingly demanding. It also tells me about taxation, and it sets the example for firefighters, for the consortiums of firefighters. Hey, you haven't been, but I have. And this agreed with the Crown's deputy at the time, when it ruled the Socialist Party, and with the Lugo MP governed by the Socialist Party. And they weren't against the model at all. Of course, there's another thing they say outside to keep up with who they're talking to. But taxation, in no case; agreement, and agreement I think it's advantageous, and I don't understand that you don't recognize that you yourselves are supporting this sort of thing. Never imposition and always collaboration. Tell me, Mrs. Díaz, that she expects the Galician Council to understand the message and to facilitate the policies of the new municipal governments. We're getting worse! Look! here we are not to facilitate politics that wants to do the first thing that comes, we are to collaborate and reach agreements in the common good. We are a legitimate government too, by the way, with an absolute majority...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u300	Thank you very much, Vice President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u301	...because they don't have the governments you claim legitimacy to negotiate and cooperate with. We'll do it. But it's not about imposing, leaving step, or letting them do everything they propose; it's about cooperating. I just misunderstood him and...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u302	Finish, please, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u303	...you said, "Yes, Madam President, I'm done." Mr. Méndez Romeo, look, for answering you in an argument that sums up everything else. Deputies, which are very important. What will be the policy of Members? We're looking forward to seeing what's going on in Lugo, to see if there's a new public political execution, to see if the casting continues...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u304	Thank you very much, Vice President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u305	...and see if there's no dignity with such a touch of power. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u306	Thank you very much. Well, we continue with the development of the agenda, with point 8, which is that of questions to the Government. Question by Da Rosa Oubina Solla and seven other Members of the G.P. Popular of Galicia, on the assessment of the Government of Greece regarding the Platform for Women's Entrepreneurship
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u307	Mrs. Prado has the floor to ask her question.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u308	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Vice-President, the best social policy is employment. We are aware that we have to help the men and women of this country find a job. Business needs to be helped to generate more jobs every day; business is fundamental to the generation of jobs in our country. But still, as long as we do not achieve full equality between men and women, we must put in place positive discrimination measures that favor women's integration into the labour market, and once they enter the labour market, we must put in place measures to achieve full wage equality, since the wage gap between men and women is still very fundamental and we must continue to work for every day to reduce it further. But it's also important to help the women I want to put in place a business project. We are aware that empowering and strengthening women's business initiative in Galicia, and in a special way supporting those projects that, with a particularly innovative nature, promote the competitiveness of women entrepreneurs and women in Greece, is a goal of the Government of Greece. In this sense, a collaboration agreement was signed between the General Secretariat of Equality, the EOI Foundation and Amtega for the joint development of the Platform for Women's Entrepreneurship project. This project aims to facilitate new tools for women's innovative enterprise in order to improve competitiveness, facilitate reconciliation and co-responsibility. At the end of January, the General Secretariat of Equality held a meeting with the Director of the EOI Foundation in Madrid in order to evaluate the results in the development of this project, for the development of the female entrepreneurship and innovation of the Greek pemes and the Platform for Entrepreneurship in Women. That is why, Vice-President, since the People's Parliamentary Group, we would like to ask you what is the assessment of the Government of Greece on this Platform for Entrepreneurship in Women. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u309	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. The vice president and councillor, the public administrations and the judiciary have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u310	Thank you, President. Yes, Mrs Prado, indeed, the Industrial Organization School of the Ministry of Industry, which has been collaborating for a long time with the Council of Galicia, the Amtega and the General Secretariat of Equality signed in December 2013, a year and a half ago, an agreement to promote female entrepreneurship, which sought innovation in women's pemes and the creation of a Women's Entrepreneurship Platform, all with funding of 400,000 euros and four well-defined phases. The first one, which was an analysis and a diagnosis of how the female enterprise was in Galicia, was to be able to act accordingly. The second one, and that diagnosis, is a development of a plan to disseminate and capture companies that could participate. Third, a platform designed and thought about marketing and helping to market the economic activities of these women entrepreneurs. And finally, an action to spread this whole project and that you'd known and that more entrepreneurs could benefit. The current moment is that the female entrepreneurship platform is already online, in the address ‘enterprises degali.es’. So we are already with the practically fulfilled phases and what we want is to give visibility to the Welsh entrepreneurs – that there are, and very good, and there must be more – who know their success stories and who serve as an example for other women who decide to undertake as well. It also helps them in their commercial work, promotes or facilitates them to promote and therefore sell their services and their products, which they also know, and therefore publish and make the lines of aid and subsidy more widely available for women's entrepreneurship. And also report on all those activities and courses that are being done in favor of female entrepreneurship, not only from the Unity of Galicia, but from any administration. Today there are already 140 female entrepreneurship projects that are led by Welsh entrepreneurs who are housed on the platform and therefore benefit from their services and get to know: 67 in Coruña, 20 in Lugo, 10 in Ourense and 43 in Pontevedra. And also an important fact: 40% of these projects, located in rural areas. We just signed a new agreement in May 2015 with 80,000 euros to further strengthen and disseminate the results of this platform and its resources. In the end, what we're trying to do is to make it easier for the Galician entrepreneurs, a task that was obviously not easy, that they dare themselves at such difficult times to start an economic activity, that they know what they are doing and that we do not waste – or at least try not to dissipate – the immense female talent they treasure Galicia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u311	Replica from Mrs. Prado del Río.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u312	Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Vice President. You spoke of entrepreneurs and women to whom the Galician Union wants to make visibility to its business projects, successful projects of women with leadership who engage in a business. And from the People's Parliamentary Group we want to congratulate the Government on enhancing the capacity and entrepreneurship of women, against new politicians and new policies that propose to recover old policies of precarious jobs, whose proposal for a female employment star is to create co-operatives for mothers to clean up their children's schools. And besides, they'd be very satisfied because they're staying close to the house, I suppose that's why they're here first to feed the husband, and also because it's their children's school. They say, these new policies, that they clean up something they care about. And that has added social value, because "cleans better when you clean up that you know it's for something." Yes, they open their mouths, but these are the proposals of the new policies, of those that are of the new tides. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I think they're already a little dizzy. So look, after listening to these......proposals from the new policies, Mr. Vice-President, I am very proud to belong to the People's Party, where the social value of women's work goes by favoring those who wish to engage in business. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Murmurs.]] And you help make it innovative and competitive in this world where there are more and more new technologies, more innovation and more development. And women can't stay behind in this world of competitiveness. Even in rural areas, of what you said before, when we heard Mr. Méndez Romeo, in the previous intervention, say that in the rural world there were no services, that is absolutely false. That's why today, more than ever, I'm proud to belong to the People's Party...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u313	Thank you very much, Mrs. Prado, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u314	...and not those new policies that they propose...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u315	Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Mrs. Prado. [[Applause]] Mr. Alfonso Rueda, Vice-President and President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u316	Yes, indeed, Mrs Prado, the policies of the Government of Galicia go through Fridays – fortunately, I think – completely different from some proposals that we had to hear these days of news responsible for municipal governments. We are not going there at all – nor do society think it goes there – I think an axis, the axis we are developing now, of the VI Galego Plan of Equality, is based on the use of female talent and, within that, forms a very important part of the Emega Plan, which, in the end, is, like this platform that I was talking about in the first part of the question, to take advantage of all the potentialities of female entrepreneurship. In the end, it's about investing money, but it's also about investing it intelligently. Investing money to break down all those barriers that really prevent women from working on developing everything they're capable of. These barriers still exist and therefore an effort must be made to bring them down gradually. Nearly 4 million euros have invested the Emega Programme since 2009, 500 women's jobs that can be directly linked to the actions of the Emega Programme, and within the Emega Programme we are especially, I don't know if the money is proud, but of course, very aware that everything that has to do with the line called 'Council', which the same word clearly indicates makes it easier for women to remove major barriers that are the difficulties in reconciling work and family life. I believe that it is not only with economic aid – as I said – that it is also with measures that gradually change the mentality of the men and women we work. And, therefore, this is a challenge that will depend not only on the administration, it will also depend on private companies, it will also depend on working habits and many things that we gradually have to go down and that, of course, proposals like those you referred to do not help at all. Since the start of the program, in 2014, I have to say that 1,349 men have obtained help to reduce their work hours, that is to say, to reconcile them, not only that they have to reconcile women, and therefore they can make it easier for women to develop in the workplace without always being those who have to give up for the benefit of men when they both work. There are also women who welcomed this program, less –445 – with which I think it's going to be right, because where it had to be affected was mostly on the male side; and in 2014, 4.4 million euros. It is clear that there is a need to go, understanding that equality is not much less real today, understanding that not only will the Administration solve it, but that the Administration has a lot to do, not only with money – that too – but also with attitudes and trying little by little to change habits. For this reason, initiatives like those we spoke about before, I believe that must be discarded, rejected and even criticized from the beginning, without any doubt. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u317	Next question. Question from Da Consuelo Martínez García, from G.P. Jointly, on the forecasts of the Government of Greece regarding the attendance in the Galician Parliament to explain the financing of a political party
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u318	You have the floor, Mrs. Martínez, to ask your question.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u319	Thank you, President. The first thing that attracts attention is the euphemisms to name this initiative on the agenda, saying, "About the forecasts of the Greek Government regarding the attendance in the Galician Parliament to explain the financing of a political party." Neither illegal financing nor the name of the party. This can be anything. Then we escaped to the title. Well, I mean the illegal financing of the People's Party. José de la Mata, the magistrate who inherited Pablo Ruz's trial number 5 of the National Audience, considers it accredited in the investigation of the Gürtel plot that existed organization [...], illegal association, electoral crime, traffic in influences, false accounting, money laundering and crimes against the public farm. [[(By order of the President and in accordance with Rule 106(3) of the Rules of Procedure, this expression is withdrawn from the Journal of Sessions)]] For all this, he decided to open an oral trial against the former treasurers of the People's Party Álvaro Lapuerta and Luis Bárcenas, as well as the party manager, Cristóbal Paez, and considers the existence of a box b in the People's Party that operated, at least, from 1990 to 2008. From La Mata, in view of the evidence, it considers that the PP has also committed crimes of falsity of electoral funds and accountancy, because part of that money in box b was employed in the 2003 Catalan campaigns in general, Europeans and Andalusian 2004 and in generals and Andalusian 2008. Luis Bárcenas also ratified, before Judge Pablo Ruz, the opaque prayers of the People's Party in Galicia registered in 2006 and amounting to more than 1,800,000 euros, from companies to which Manuel Fraga's Board awarded millionaire contracts. In the report of the then leader of the People's Party, Modesto Fernández, to the state PP, there is a list with 19 companies, many of them autonomic government contractors during the Fraga mandates and also on occasions consistent with Feijóo's mandates, as in 1991 as secretary-general of agriculture, until 1996, in 2003 as advisor to Territorial Policy and Works, in 2004 as vice president and in 2009 as president. If, in the official accounts of the Italian PP, there were €208,300, in the document sent to Genoa with supposed opaque funding, the arrivals of these twenty entrepreneurs amounted to EUR 1,888.125. One example of this junction with joint contracts under the PP government are Grupo Campo, Egasa, Nexo, like not, Copasa!, Ramón Caro, Amador Castro, which was made with the ITVs of Galicia, FCC, the large concessionary company that was made with the bus of Berdoias for 979 million, or Teconsa, also linked to the business of the Gürtel plot and that made the offices of the Board in Vigo and the headquarters of Santiago do Igape. Now that the president of the board promises a change of course...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u320	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. Thank you very much. Mr. Alfonso Rueda has the floor of the vice president and chairlor, public administration and justice.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u321	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mrs. Martínez, you do a storyteller of the things Mr. Bárcenas said, not what the judges said, which of this you speak said absolutely nothing, and with that you already compose a question and you come here and you have your intervention. Look, this very question has already been asked in this Parliament and has already been answered. What happens is that you're not worth it because, as often as you're told, the times you need to do justice, that you're going to investigate what needs to be done, and that most people need to do without any doubt, that's not worth it to you because that... as you have to do justice and we've already heard many times here what many of you think of justice, that it's all a fellow, that the judges are all right and, therefore, they're partial judges, save some who save you; that prosecutors comply with orders and despise the law... That's the opinion that you have of justice and, therefore, how it's not worth the justice you're worth to them all of Spaniards, they have to do and look for parallel judgments, which is what you're doing here. And they've done it before, saying curses, because they think this whole thing comes out to them for free, and people who listen don't have their own judgment, too. Look, as I say, we've answered this several times, we've talked here about the mortgage of the headquarters that was rented, we've talked about those companies. And it turns out, of the 16 companies you were referring to, 13 had more bipartisan contracts than with PP, some more than triple, all that was said. But you, as you used to be in another group and probably in another world, didn't even find out. Perhaps these questions had to be asked much closer to where you are than here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u322	Thank you. Mrs. Martínez García's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u323	So wide and so broad! because, really, what you are unable to accept is political responsibility. This is not a question of trials, it's a question of political responsibility, that the president of the People's Party and the Galician Union comes to this Parliament and gives explanations about the data that the judge says. And the judge says that the PP is an organization... which is an illegal association, electoral crime, committed influence trafficking, accounting for falseness, money laundering, crimes against the public estate. [[(By order of the President and in accordance with Rule 106(3) of the Rules of Procedure, this expression is withdrawn from the Journal of Sessions)]] Do you want more? It's shown that I had a box b and it's shown that there were wrong donations. And that's what the magistrate says, this is not what this honourable Member says, that's what the magistrate says. And you escape your duty and come here with transparency laws. But what transparency are they hiding? And then they don't want it to be said that this is the law of silence, the mafia's omertà, to cover up each other. That's what the People's Party does and the rest is propaganda, pro-pa-gan-da. And we don't want to wait for a trial. Because the people don't wait for a sentence, wait for an explanation from the president. It is indecent that the president of Galicia and all the government and all the party that is supporting the Government are in a case like this one of an organization [...], in an illegal association. [[(By order of the President and in accordance with Rule 106(3) of the Rules of Procedure, this expression is withdrawn from the Journal of Sessions)]] And I don't say it, say it to the magistrate José de la Mata. He says there was organization [...], illegal association, electoral crime, traffic in influence. [[(By order of the President and in accordance with Rule 106(3) of the Rules of Procedure, this expression is withdrawn from the Journal of Sessions)]] What else do you have to accuse the People's Party of for the President to come and explain to Parliament, who are the representatives of the people, the people of Greece, just like you? But how dare you question that opposition also represents the people!, you are dictators...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u324	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u325	...they learned from the dictatorship, they follow their model...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u326	Thank you very much, Mrs. Martínez. Mrs. Martínez, Mrs. Martínez, it seems very good to me. Everything you say will already be said by the judges, but in this Parliament I do not consent to you to pay attention to the decoration of the House and therefore I ask you to remove these expressions which you have used here. There are no organizations here... of any kind. [[Mrs. Martínez García speaks words that are not perceived.]] I think it's very nice for the judge to say it, but not in this Parliament. And therefore... [[Mrs. Martínez García speaks words that are not perceived.]] Well, you have a call to order, and I remove the expression. [[Mrs. Martínez García speaks words that are not perceived.]] Mrs. Martínez, you have no word, and you have the second call to order. The vice president and chairlor have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u327	Mrs. Martínez, as you said, so wide and so wide – it seems to me to say – But, look, all those things he said, to offend, first, you'd have to take it seriously. And because he can't...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u328	Mrs. Martínez! [[Strong murmurers.]] Mr. Vice President, excuse me for a moment.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u329	As you can't get her to take it seriously, for then I can't feel insulted by all the barbarities you said. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u330	Thank you very much. [[Mr Rodríguez Arias asks for the floor.]] What do you want the word for? Give a voice to Mrs. Rodríguez Arias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u331	In connection with the decoration of this parliamentary group. Regardless of whether Mrs Martínez is absent, this House...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u332	Excuse me, you're asking me to speak to Mrs. Rodríguez Arias, who is explaining to me why she wants the word. Why do you want the floor, Mrs. Rodríguez Arias?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u333	Look, he just said that in this parliamentary group we are dictators, and he just accused the Vice-President of the Galician Union of indecent and other issues, and I think that this Member should take into account what has just happened in this House.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u334	Thank you very much. Quiet, please! We continue with the development of the agenda. Question by Mr Jaime Castineira Broz and seven other Members of the G.P. People in Galicia, on measures provided for by the Government of Greece to protect the right to housing of families at risk of being deprived
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u335	Mr. Castineira has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u336	Thank you, Madam President. Counsellor, good afternoon. We know here that of "the foolish words, the deaf ears." I think it's all said. The economic crisis of recent years, especially since 2007, 2008, until 2011, has led many Spanish families and families in Spain to be at risk, even vulnerable, and to lose their homes with runaways, not wanted by anyone or much less. In fact, during the years 2007 to 2011, ruled in Madrid by the Government of Zapatero, now become counsel of Mr. Pedro Sánchez, as it turns out that about 350,000 drawbacks are being carried out, and the Socialist Party, which is ruling at that time in collaboration with the left progressives, not only did it not do or took absolutely no action, but the measures it carried out were the speeding up of the procedures for the drawbacks, leading to changes in regulations such as the "expressive drawback" or even the "expressive discard" at the end of 2011, a few months earlier, a month before the national elections, the elections of the Government of the State of 2011. What they assumed, and in fact, was what they achieved, was that the wastes were driven with them. Far from that, in 2011 the People's Party came to the State Government and was clearly demonstrated with facts where sensitivity is part of the special situations, with the situations of families at risk and vulnerability. And no more comes the Government of Mariano Rajoy clearly handed down decrees, Royal Decree 6/2012, known as the "Code of Good Practices", which was to alleviate risk situations of many families, giving rise to payments, to donation in payment or even social rental. Of course, they have recently removed, modified and extended precisely the deadlines that were given there, and expanded cases where you can access that code of good practice, with Law 1/2015. In November, the Royal Decree Law 27/2012 of 15 November, which established a two-year moratorium on the launch of families at risk, or the creation of the social housing fund, was also established, as was Law 1/2013 of reform of the mortgage system. In that same line, the Galician Union approved the Retirement Program, with 500 housing units available for evictions, as well as the Reconduce Program in October 2013. And now a series of news media has just been announced. And that is our question, Counsellor: what are those measures you have planned to take the Government?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u337	Thank you very much, Mr. Castineira. The Environmental, Territorial and Infrastructure Adviser has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u338	Thank you, President. As I said, Your Honor, one of the top priorities of the Galician Council is to guarantee constitutional right to a decent housing for the Greek families. That's the line of work in which we've been focusing our efforts over the past few years, support for families in situations of social emergency so they can count on a housing by direct taxation; the Programme also reinvents, which we've launched with the Labour Council, offering counselling and mediation to banks before the releases to prevent the affected from having to leave their home; and also the Realoxo Programme, for those affected by mortgage executions, to allow them to direct assessment of public promotion housing, and also of the Programme alleges, a measure that I have to say has responded to all the families who asked for it at the Galician Union and who met the requirements. A line of work we want to keep focusing on, because, of course, we won't be satisfied as long as a single family is at risk of losing their homes. And aware that it was necessary to continue to intensify, continue to strengthen, these policies, at the Galician Summit, we decided to put in place the rehaVita Plan approved at the Board of Directors in February 2015 this year to facilitate access to housing for those people and families who need it. A plan that consolidates the programmes that have been carried out and which also collects new initiatives. I mean the insertion housing network, which will allow people at risk of social exclusion to be given an axilistic home. The decree is being drafted. With the agreement already signed last March with Sareb, with the bad bank, the first 50 homes for those families with special difficulties we will begin to deliver them to these families with special difficulties next July. And also the bonus-rent. The rental bonus for urgent and immediate support to those families who need it most will start working this same month, and will be compatible with other social assistance. In this context, last week we started a new instrument of great importance – it's talking about an instrument already planned in the RehaVita Plan and on the social plan against economic inequality –: I'm talking about the empty housing census for social planning, a decree that is in the process of public participation and that we hope to adopt in the last quarter of this year. They'll be forced to register the empty houses the banks, their real estate subsidiaries and Sareb In short, we're still working to improve the housing access system to families who need it most. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u339	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mr. Castineira.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u340	Thank you, Counselor. As it becomes clear and is written, because nothing better than the facts, is clearly demonstrated that the measures that both the Union and the Government of the State, the governments of the People's Party, have come to take in the matter of eviction, anti-disappearance, of course, are not yesterday or before the elections, as some want to sell, or two days after the elections. Even some tides, which are now called, and which are in an anti-disappearance movement, are now explaining and copying the measures that the People's Party's governments have put in place for years. Why? Because they're giving their fruit, and we're convinced that no one from the People's Party and no one from any political party will rest while a single family loses its housing, in which we're convinced that we all aspire to that it doesn't happen. You, Counselor, would now bring in and tell us about that census of empty dwellings that will be created, that is working on it. In that line, we would like you to expand our information on this, on what it consists, what municipalities will affect, whether it affects all the municipalities or it will be by population, and even what kind of housing will be in that census, whether it will be mandatory or not, etc. We'd like it to expand, if possible, information on what that empty housing census is going to be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u341	Thank you, Mr. Castineiras. Shut up, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u342	Thank you, President. Your Honor, the proceedings launched by the Galician Council helped many families, but we have, of course, found that further progress is needed. In order to improve effectiveness, we also believe that information must be provided to these families, to get information from the programs that are in Galicia and that they know these programs. Of course, if we thought that the problem was solved, we wouldn't strengthen the measures, as we're doing. Because I insist that we can't afford to be satisfied, and as long as a single family is at risk of losing their homes, we will of course continue to work. This commitment responds to initiatives such as this draft decree which is in public participation, the census of empty housing for social planning, a preliminary draft which collects the compulsory registration of empty dwellings located in the municipalities of more than 10,000 inhabitants and which are owned by banks, real estate subsidiaries and also by Sareb; a preliminary draft decree which provides for the occupation of these dwellings by those affected by mortgage executions, by families who are unable to pay rent, by families registered in the register of protected housing claimants, of public housing. As an important element, this document, this draft decree, provides for the promotion of partnership agreements with banking institutions to ensure that these dwellings entered into in the census are intended to care for persons affected by defiance due to mortgage executions and also for rent default. Last Thursday we wanted to move forward, and in the past Council of the Union we authorized a measure from now on I would say pioneer: the signing of cooperation agreements between the Galego de Vivenda and Solo Institute and the credit institutions of our community to prevent families with less resources from being deprived of their homes. And we've opened two avenues of action enabling the residence of those families affected by mortgage executions and also to the disposal of empty housing for social rent. Our objective is that credit institutions should inform the Board of all cases of mortgage executions in which the launch is legally authorized, and that they are committed to avoiding this release so that families can remain in their homes. The affected may stay in their homes for three years by paying between 0 and 75 euros a month, depending on family circumstances, and also the signatory entities will voluntarily give such empty housing to the social rent – between 0 and 125 euros a month –. Your Honor, Abanca, Sabadell-Galego and Caixa Rural have already expressed the desire to accede to those agreements, and we will sign them in an imminent manner.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u343	Thank you, Mrs. Concelera.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u344	Thank you, Counselor. Question by D. Antón Sánchez García, from G.P. of the Alternative Galga de Left, on the actions planned by the Galician Board to help or prevent the relocation of the jobs of the group Adolfo Domínguez
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u345	To put the question, you have the word Mr. Fajardo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u346	Good afternoon, Mr. Industry Counsellor, I imagine that you will be the one who responds in this collective response to employment issues and who refuses to respond to the irresponsible of the Employment Council, that when it comes to talking about ERE and keeping jobs away from their responsibilities. As you know, the final approval of an ERE by Adolfo Domínguez, from Ourense, which will lead to the dismissal of 105 people, which, together with the 50 redundancies of 2012 and the 60 of 2014, assumes that we shift from 895 people in 2011 to 395 today, which means a real dismantling of this template. All this when the same company has received help from the Board in the following amounts: in 2012 it received EUR 1,856,000; in 2013, 2,208.000; and in 2014, 1,957,000, which makes an amount of aid, in just three years, of more than 5 million euros. Adolfo Domínguez received much more important help from the Board than that which is intended for, for example, social emergency aid, which is EUR 4 million, or which last year is intended for the comprehensive employment promotion plan, which is only 2.2 million. In spite of receiving more than EUR 5 million for the economic promotion of employment, this firm is able to dismantle half its employment during the years in which it is receiving these amounts. So, we, beyond questioning the ERE situation – what we're going to talk about later – want to ask Junta what she's going to do to demand from a company that receives that huge amount of public money that keeps her job. Because ERE sold it for economic reasons. That's not so, because a company that has fewer employees than stores in the world does it not on economic issues but to relocate part of its production. You've noticed that most of the 105 jobs that are lost have to do with the ironing, labelling and fixtures area; that they're not missing, that these jobs are not done anymore, that they're going to be done in India and China. We all know what the working conditions of India and China are. So, we're talking about how we've been financing the relocation of companies since Junta. Because I'm going to give you a data that to us is, at least, worrying. With the amounts that Adolfo Domínguez received in the last three years by Junta, they could maintain the job, such as with the textile convention that applies, of 402 people; more than that, they could keep the job of the 105 they fire for five years. So our question is, did you plan on doing something to prevent this company from being permanently dismantled? What are you going to do about monitoring to ensure that employment is kept linked to some of these aids you've received in the last three years? Are you planning on continuing your profile and looking to the other side when you dismantle a fundamental company for the future of Ourense province?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u347	Thank you, Mr. Fajardo. You're being told by the Economics and Industry Councillor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u348	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The truth is, Mr. Fajardo, when we talk about responsibilities here, I'm surprised at your approach. Logically this Government always acts with responsibility, it always gives explanations to this House and, logically, both in all cases affecting the Economic and Industry Council, as it can be, as logically, when it affects the Labour and Welfare Council. And in some cases, like this one, logically, with a shared responsibility. What I'm sorry is your ignorance and how you come free to give data that is not correct. I think I'd urge you, towards the future, so that, when you need data, you ask the Government. Logically, this government, with all transparency, will give you that data. Because, Mr Fajardo, you should know, and if not, I assure you, that this Government, since the year 1999, has given Adolfo Domínguez full help for a value of 2.8 million euros, but they have actually paid €1.450,000; because the difference has been breached by this company. But in addition, Mr Fajardo over the past five years, the amounts that Adolfo Domínguez received were exactly about EUR 270,000. Mr Fajardo, for the last five years, 270,000 euros. All aid in competitive competition, all, and 94% of that aid was precisely so that I could sell more in internationalization actions. So, Mr. Fajardo, when he has no data, ask, but, above all, he doesn't act demagogicly, making comparisons that don't come up with the case. Because this company has the responsibility to meet social policy towards citizens and has a complementary responsibility to help companies that need it, as is the case with Adolfo Domínguez. So, demagogic comparisons, I think they do not really contribute anything to the debate, a debate that has a clear objective, that is to meet the needs of employment and the needs of the workers of Adolfo Domínguez, of the whole sector of the Italian textile sector and of the whole of the Greek economy. And logically, there he knows perfectly well that this government is acting in each case with absolute responsibility. You know that, indeed, this ERE was resolved last day 12 on that file negotiating commission, and that the template has massively evaluated this agreement. In any case, logically, this government will continue to work to ensure the viability of Adolfo Domínguez, and will continue logically to ensure that Adolfo Domínguez can continue to develop this work here in Galicia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u349	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mr. Fajardo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u350	The truth is, if I had already doubts about this ERE, now I have just been absolutely amazed. Look, the data I give you from Joine's help is the data contained in the job regulation file, which the company itself delivered to the template. So either you lie to the company or you lie to the government, either you're serious enough. First, if you lie to the government, unfortunately we'll be used to it, but it's a responsibility on your part. And if you lie to the company, you'll have to explain how, as a labor authority, you haven't verified that the data presented to the labour authority for an ERE is not the correct one. Either way, someone's doing the wrong thing. And what a chance! in both cases it seems to me that this administration, which in an ERE of extinction assumes that a company delivers a report with false data from what it receives from the Board, does nothing, you did nothing at all. It's more, the question I asked you is concrete: what are you going to do to avoid relocation? No, let him continue his activity. No, no, his activity will continue, but with half the staff he was three years ago, from 580 employees to just 250. How do you understand that? What do you mean by the activity? Who is the factory open there without anyone inside and the garments are made, absolutely everything, from Asia and India? I think it's worrying. But I'm telling you you're responsible for Industry. Did you, some part of your department, look at the file, have access to the file you handed yourself to the social party to negotiate? Because if in that file there are data that are not correct from the receipt of the aid, there must of course be some responsibility. And if so, they would immediately have to call Adolfo Domínguez and ask for explanations why that data. Or perhaps they're trying to fool the House of Galicia and hence citizenship. The sad thing is, when we're talking to him about a hundred and peak layoffs, you come here saying the problem is the data. No, the problem is a hundred families who are unemployed despite having received a lot of public money, which would allow them to pursue this job. Do you know that these aids are good enough to pay the compensation? I want you to answer that question, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u351	Thank you, Mr. Fajardo. Shut up, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u352	[...] There is a third possibility: that you are dedicated to making free statements, that would not be the first time. In any case, I urge you that the data I reflected in my intervention are the data of the Government. [[Murmurs.]] Indeed, in the case of Adolfo Domínguez, from the very first moment, this Government, as it does in all cases where there is some kind of work problem or the problem of the viability of a company, has made contact with Adolfo Domínguez, has made it available to Adolfo Domínguez to actually see how this government could help to mark a clear future path and viability of this company, and logically that is what we did in this case, and we will continue to do it. And, logically, the responsibility of this government is to accompany its productive fabric and, indeed, to ensure the viability of all companies, to ensure the viability of jobs. And there's a very important aspect, when you tell me about relocation. Obviously, this government, in the case of Adolfo Domínguez and in the case of the company as a whole, is trying to work precisely to ensure that every cycle of added value developed in a productive sector develops here in Galicia. And in that, logically, we're working. What conjunctural situations, indeed, of the market can result in a situation of difficulty of a company, logically, that is a situation in which we have to accompany and help companies, which for that we are with the various instruments of help that this government has and which logically makes available to its productive fabric. So, Mr. Fajardo, we will continue to support the textile sector, we will continue to support the reality of the Greek economy, a reality in which we are on a clear path of recovery, logically still with many difficulties, because still the unemployment rate, including the textile sector, is a logically very high rate. But this month of May knows that in the industrial sector we have 6,000 less unemployed people in industry, that industry here in Galicia is creating more full-time jobs than the rest of the industry, and that logically we've been on a completely different path for several months. Logically we will continue to accompany companies, we will continue to accompany companies to strengthen their competitive position. And we hope that, in fact, Adolfo Domínguez will be able to enter a road of viability by adapting to the market situation and that logically, in the different productive sectors, the added value cycle will be maintained so that this whole cycle can effectively revert to greater employment and competitiveness in our productive fabric. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u353	Thank you, Counselor. Question by D. Xosé Manuel Beiras Torrado and six other Members of the G.P. of the Gaga de Left Alternative on the political responsibilities arising from the judgment declaring the suspension of the wind competition illegal
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u354	They'll end up in Asia, Mr. Counselor. Could not connect with command "%s": %s. [[Laughter]] [[Applause]] There are things that do not allow discussion, Counselor. Today, after the Supreme Court, in a recent judgment, rejected the decision by the People's Party – 7 August 2009 – to suspend the two-party wind competition is illegal, it is annulled. The decision of the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia, which considered the appeal of Accusa Eolica, is therefore ratified and unlawfully declares the annulment of the invitation to tender as contrary to the law. His decision, the decision of his Government, is null and void of right or less. The reasons for the alleged illegality of the Bipartite tender or the incompatibility of the new model were not justified by the trial of the Supreme Court. Only this, Counsellor, should be good enough for those who have taken the decision to cancel the invitation to tender, and to cancel it in the way it has been cancelled, to assume political responsibilities. Much more after the effects these decisions have caused in the sector, in the economy and in Galicia's employment. And then the data doesn't lie either. Ever since you arrived, the wind sector has slowed down to paralyze, and this is essentially achievable to the policies of the PP here and in Madrid. It seems that this doesn't seem enough for someone to take responsibility for the serious damage caused. Moreover, the President of the Council of Galicia said today morning that he would do it again, that is, that he would prevaricate, pass justice through the arch of triumph, and try to confuse, as always, to try to justify the unjustifiable, and speaks of twelve judgments that assess the legality of the decision. No, lie. This is not a matter of weight or sweet against one, because, for legal purposes, Counselor, although it was only one company whose remedy has prospered, today, once ratified by the Supreme, this is enough for the government's decision to be illegal at that time. And in it it it is affirmed that the Union has incured power deviation. You cried out against the illegality of the Bipartite's wind competition, and now it turns out that no sentence confirms the illegality of the Bipartite's competition, but there is a sentence confirming the illegality of its actions in the wind competition. You cried out against the legal insecurity that was going to cause that Bipartite contest and it was you, with your decisions, who created the legal insecurity. Now the way is opened for companies to claim damages, compensation claims for damages caused by an illegal decision of an administration. And then we'll all pay. In the wind, you are also the worst government in the history of democracy in this country. Are you planning to assume political responsibilities for the windscreen fiasco, Counselor?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u355	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. Reply by the Economic and Industry Advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u356	Mr Sánchez, the truth is that I did not understand very well the question of your parliamentary group, but logically I will try to answer it. Because you come here this afternoon just to try to confuse. It clearly tries to confuse from a legal point of view with a matter so that you do not — and you know it — have any practical effect, either on the decision of the suspension of the Bipartite contest or on the legality and vigil of the current wind competition. Neither, nor do you know, has any practical effect on possible compensations. Because you know, Mr. Sánchez, that the Supreme Court ruling refers to a temporary suspension, not to the wind competition. And most importantly, you know that judgment is a first sentence, but there are subsequent judgments from the Galician High Court of Justice who, in fact, endorsed the decision to paralyze the unfortunate Bipartite competition. But I say more to you, Mr Sánchez, and also logically extending this clarification to the BNG: the Supreme Court itself of Justice in Galicia says that the judgment has no consequences. That's not what the Government says, says the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia. That judgment has no consequences because it has been surpassed – you know it too – by the new legal framework adopted in December 2009. I would like to read to you textually or that the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia says: "There is no consequence, since the only consequence or effect that would lead to the annulment of the contested resolution would be the lifting of the suspension". I mean, Mr. Sánchez, there's no judgment declaring the current wind competition illegal. So, while you try to confuse – I insist – from the way, I, if I may, go to the bottom. And you know that the suspension of the competition was a commitment from this government and therefore a decision that was evaluated, in addition, by the polls. It is a decision that, in addition, was made in the face of the legal insecurity of a processing full of shadows. First of all, by his colleagues – who are silent today – of the Government, who have raised doubts about the legal certainty of the proceeding, or – said the PSdEG – because of the lack of conformity with the current legislation. [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] But most importantly, Mr. Sánchez – I think that is to be noted in this audience – said the Advisory Council itself. I quote it textually: "The draft decree regulating the use of wind energy in Galicia is not in accordance with the legal order because of the legal layers collected in the seventh consideration." This is the performance of the Bipartite. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u357	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mr. Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u358	Those who try to confuse, Counselor, it's you, it's you, who come to talk about the legality of the People's Party contest. [[Murmurs.]] I'm not talking about the Popular Party contest. I'm talking about the decision to cancel the Bipartite contest, which is very different. And you will see how it will have consequences, Counselor, you will see how it will have consequences in the form of claims caused by damage to these companies, which will not remain silent, as you have announced, Counselor. Look, I'm just going to read it and tell you what judgment it refers to, because in your attempt to confuse it doesn't say what judgment the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia refers to. I want to read to you or car from the Supreme Court of September 2013, which says: "The object of appeal is of indeterminate quantity, since it is the suspension of the procedure for granting authorisations to wind farms facilities. So that the entity of the proceedings referred to in the contested administrative proceedings, the number of undertakings concerned and the compensation to which it would take place allows the conclusion that the amount of the full exceeds the amount legally established to allow the route of marriage to be issued." It is the Supreme Court, in September 2013, that ratifys it in June 2015, Counsellor. These will be the consequences, in addition to the paralysis of the sector all these years; which, when you arrived, were installed megawatts, and since you govern no megawatts are installed, no jobs are created. Those are the consequences of an illegal decision that you think you don't have to assume political responsibilities. That is the democratic quality of the Government that we have, that is the government that we have. You're trying to be confused when you're talking about later judgments. Once you have spoken to the Supreme Court, your decision to suspend the Bipartite's invitation is illegal, ball point, illegal! Companies prejudiced by this decision will claim and may claim. And you don't assume any responsibility, they did everything perfectly in the windmill. We all know they made it perfect. That's how it goes and so it goes, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u359	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. Close to Mr. Economics and Industry Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u360	The truth is, Mr. Sánchez, I am surprised by the enthusiasm with which you are defending the interests of companies... [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u361	Silence, please, Mr. Sánchez! Silence, Mr. Sánchez! [[Mr. Sánchez García pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Time is controlled, calm down.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u362	I would like to say, Mr President, that I am greatly surprised at the intensity with which Mr Sánchez is defending today, this afternoon, in Parliament, the companies that participated in the Bipartite contest. A contest, Mr. Sánchez, that you defend perhaps by the past... [[Strong murmurers.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u363	Quiet, please!If not, we'll have to suspend the plenary for a moment.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u364	Perhaps he's defending these companies for the political past of his parliamentary group. But I think you know that if you hadn't acted the People's Party's Government, you'd sit on Galicia's board of directors of a company like Aqueous Wind. Is that the name? Acoustic, yes. It was precisely the company that presented this resource that you are defending so strongly today. But you should also know – and this House should know – that this company, Your Honor, is a company participated in by Alfageme, to which the two-party government granted benefits at the end of its term of office. And I assumed a breakdown for this government and for all the Greeks of 32 million euros. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u365	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u366	Now I understand, Mr. Sánchez, your interest and your enthusiasm for defending the wind competition. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u367	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u368	But, Mr. Sánchez, don't confuse. One thing is the Greek wind competition and another very different is the situation that is actually living in the energy sector. But, if you like, we're talking about the Bipartite wind competitions. Remember it was three of the contests you gave, the three cancelled. The first two were the 100 megawatts and 565 businessmen, by the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia; and the 1,300 contest by the Wind Law 8/2009. So, Your Honor, I don't think you can come here to teach legal lessons. You must not come here to defend the companies that participated in that Bipartite contest. [[Murmurs.]] And you know that this Supreme Court ruling was passed by superior judgments of the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u369	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u370	...where all the performances were evaluated perfectly...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u371	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u372	...in the event of the annulment of the Bipartite contest...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u373	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u374	...as from the very cautious suspension that was made of the contest itself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u375	That question is impertinence, please! That expression is withdrawn. [[Mr. Sánchez García pronounces words that are not perceived.]] No, no, Mr. Sánchez, don't put me on the weaver of having to call him in order. I've removed that impertinent expression you used. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] No, no, no, I haven't heard any impertinent expression around here. None. [[Protests.]] No, we're not going now... No, quiet. [[Protests.]] [[Protests.]] We'll finish the full quiet. [[Protests.]] We'll finish the whole thing quietly. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] You're not the one to talk about tranquility. Question from Mr. Ricardo Vicente Docasar Docasar and two other MPs from the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, about the concrete funding received during the first quarter by those schools in which basic vocational training was implemented
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u376	Make your question whenever you want, Mr. Docasar.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u377	Thank you, President. Counselor, good afternoon. Last Friday the classes were finished in Galicia, the school course 2014-2015; therefore, we understand in the Socialist Group that it is the right time to make a balance of the implementation of the Basic FP in Galicia. As you know, Mr Counsellor, this Member has always considered that the implementation of the Basic FP in Galicia has become hasty, chaotic and cheating. And now we also know for sure, because the course is over, which has been done at zero cost; i.e. you have implemented a new modality of teaching in a rundown manner, without investing a single euro and thus changing that maximum of doing more with less for another more friendly way of doing more with nothing. Yes, Mr. Rodríguez, you decided to start up just over a year ago at LOMCE without counting practically anyone. And that's why we also said at the time that we were before a law with a clear date of expiry: November 2015. And whose commitment, by the way, remains vigilant to this day, as much as it bothers them to hear it. Counsellor, I think I'd like to take a good look at the feelings of the Welsh educational community when I tell you that the implementation of the Basic FP was not done properly. And now we also confirm that it was done at zero cost. The information was reaching the centers, the management teams, the students and the families late, ill and the trail. The lack of seriousness was absolute, and the malaise of the centers, of their management teams and of the general teacher is great, Mr. Counsellor. We must not forget that the FP Basic came to replace existing PCPIs, PCPIs that had clear funding. Nor is it a minor issue to say that PCPIs were being held in more than 300 educational centers in Galicia and were being taught by more than 4,000 pupils distributed through the cities, towns and villages of the country; and that now, with the basic FP, we are still far away from those figures. Groups of students ranged between 10 and 12 – very important theme, Counsellor – and now we're around 20. And you have to know better than anyone who pays good attention to that kind of student with 20 students in the classroom is a real insanity. And I'm going to get to the point where I want to give special relevance today, Counselor, and what it has to do with financing this new mode of teaching. Ten months have passed and the classes are finished, and we want to know today why you implanted in Galicia the basic FP in haste and running, with zero funding, without equipping with teaching equipment, without matching the necessary works and doubling the number of students per classroom. You will agree with me, Counsellor, that implementing a new teaching modality by doubling the number of students in class, without placing a single euro and with the rush and improvisation with those who did so was a real disincentive. Having said that, do you really think, Counsellor, that the Welsh educational community understands this chapuza? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u378	Thank you very much, Mr. Docasar. The councillor for Culture, Education and Universitary Order, Mr. Román Rodríguez, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u379	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Docasar, you are a persistent man, no doubt, because it is neither the first nor the second nor the third time that you ask in this Parliament for basic vocational training. And I think it's very positive that I ask. We understand it, and for us basic vocational training is very positive, it's a tremendously positive way of teaching. You didn't say what basic vocational training was and I'll try to tell you and summarize it very quickly. Look, basic vocational training is taught by students between 15 and 18 years of age or so. It's the students who have the most learning difficulty. It is the students who for different reasons stayed behind, they were students who were – no doubt – to school failure. This mode of vocational training, the difference between the PCIs that you have promoted, gives a two-year training and gives an official degree. This Basic Vocational Training allows students to have grade degrees or to go to the degrees of Vocational Training as well. And in some ways it allows the continuity of the student in public education. It is a fantastic, very good tool to fight school failure; of what has been said this morning in this Parliament. And I'm going to remind you of one fact: in 2009 there was 26% of school failure, despite the fact that there was the highest economic budget, and today there is 16%. With which sometimes not only public spending lives the man, Mr. Docasar. And I would also say that there's nothing more exclusive for a young man to get out on the street without any kind of academic titration, because that leads to social itineraries of exclusion, very easily. And that's why this Basic Vocational Training – which has been implemented and is being implemented with work, with sacrifice, with the motivation of the teacher and the Educational Administration – is helping the students who need it most. And, look, it's an opportunity for us. There's an official degree, there's social integration, and he's working with students with more difficulty. For us it is a tool that empowers inclusion and also empowers equity in the system. And I'm going to tell you a question – which you seem angry with –: it talks about funding and says it's zero cost. Look, I wish it were at zero cost. Why? If it had, it would have been magnificent. But it had cost, as any public service had an economic cost. Or who paid the teachers? Who paid for the materials? Who pays the centers? Mr Docasar, the operating expenses – which you are obsessed with – are being handled by the Ministry, and you know that. But, please, basic vocational training is an educational modality that has a huge future and a magnificent opportunity especially for those students with more educational difficulties...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u380	Thank you very much, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u381	...that you here are denying them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u382	Thank you very much. Mr. Docasar's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u383	Thank you, President. Counsellor, I thank you very much for the class you gave me about vocational training. I, who was director of a college for twenty-three years, four months and fifteen days, as you can imagine, really appreciate a university professor giving me a class on vocational training. [[Laughter]] It rains in Havana! which says my companion is at the presidential table. You're an intrepid. [[Laughter]] I wouldn't dare care if we were talking about a university subject; but, well, there you are. [[Murmurs.]] I insist: you implanted this at zero cost. He might like it or not, but that's the reality. The course's over, Mr. Román Rodríguez, it's over last Friday. The centres didn't receive a single euro. Of course there were teachers there, I would miss more, that there were no teachers, that there were no walls, that there were no workshops! because in the centers that were once again implanted clearly they had no equipment. I know the teachers who taught on these levels, at centers that are not FP, because in a center of FP, indeed, Counsellor, if they could do a lot of things and maybe go to the next class and ask the partner who gives it in electronics, electricity or mechanics that leave it in the center, but what about at a center of these baccalatos? And in a PCPI – that is, a center that has a ICC that has virtually no material –? What did they do? You can't do things like that, Counselor. Don't tell me what vocational training is. I've been asking him this a lot of time because he never answers me – he hasn't done it today either. I tell you today, at parliamentary headquarters, that you have not guaranteed a single euro to this day of the European Union. You'll know how they did things. I know, I know that the contribution of the European Union is not guaranteed, and I am concerned, because if something is important in the FP, precisely for all these years, it is the European funds. And the prestige that FP achieved has to do with that money that was acquired by the schools, equipment and training that was given to the teacher. All this was important, but of course, tell me – before leaving, please, I am persistent, yes – how much they received the centers after ten months of course. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u384	Thank you very much, Mr. Docasar. The Councillor for Culture, Education and Universitary Order has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u385	Mr Docasar, what do you really care about, do you mind the training of students or do the centres receive the operating costs that are being processed? What does it really matter? Because you keep surpriseing us. Tell us it was implanted at zero cost. The teachers paid for them, who paid for the centers, who paid for the resources, who paid for the recent investments you know? You know that more than a million euros are being invested in equipment for Basic Vocational Training, and you know – why we announced it, and you called us electoralists, right? – that educational centers are being expanded throughout the Greek geography – in Ribeira, the Oroso; in Pontevedra, the Junqueira, or the Road – and in different centers where this modality is implemented. You know that. With which, please don't come here saying that it's the zero cost when you're making investments, when the professor is paid by the citizens' taxes... please!, I understand you care about the running cats, and I've already told him twice – I think – They're dealing with the Ministry. They'll get to the centers. But, look, that's not basic vocational training, it's not the main element. You just see that in Basic Vocational Training, and I'm going to tell you one thing: for obvious reasons, I've visited, over this time, several centers where it's being given and imparting Basic Vocational Training. And then I saw young people with a social profile and hard, very hard, vital itineraries, and I see that, if I hadn't basic vocational training, they would go to the street without any title, and I saw motivated teachers there, I saw motivated students, I saw motivated teams, and I wanted to do things. And that worries me a lot more than operating expenses come a month later or a month later. That's what we have to see, and we should, as a society, see how this educational modality is acting, it's working on those students with more difficulties and it's giving them a chance they didn't have before, because you don't tell me that you're comparable or that PCPIs are comparable to Basic Vocational Training, because if you tell me, being a teacher of vocational training – which, of course, has absolute precision on the day you've stopped stamping, it's really amazing –... Don't tell me they're comparable, they can't be compared in any case. We are faced with a modality. We understand that it is very positive that, as part of the public system, we should be proud to defend it, because, as I told you, it is oriented to students who have the most learning difficulties, who have more social problems, who have many difficulties to integrate into society. Thanks to this educational modality, they're doing it -- maybe not everyone in the Basic Vocational Training -- but a lot of students there are going to be able to continue their studies and they're going to have training. They used to go to the street without a degree. That's why we should all support basic vocational training. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u386	Thank you very much, Counselor. The following questions are gathered: Question by Mr Emilio Vázquez Blanco and two other Members of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on judicial research in relation to the management of the Fundación Camilo José Cela Da Ana Belén's question Pontón Mondelo, from G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block on Judicial Research on Management of the Fundación Camilo José Cela
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u387	You have the floor, to put the question, Mr Vázquez Blanco of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u388	The Fundación Camilo José Cela became part of the public sector in 2010, however, it is curious that it does not appear in the budgets of the Union until 2013. And from that moment on, it's not possible to say there's too much information; in fact, the budget information of the 13th and 15th exercises is exactly the same, it's limited to photocopying the previous document, and the board gives it validly without any problem. Furthermore, since there is no information, there has not even been a memory of activities in this Parliament or on the foundation's own website, so information does not exactly highlight this entity. This has taken a heavy toll since 80% of the budget – 258,000 euros at present – is provided by the Galician Union. At present, this foundation dedicates 70% of the budget to staff costs and, within these staff costs, obviously includes those corresponding to the seven public employees of the foundation, something about which Junta seems to have delayed information. And I'm saying this because we have an answer from the Presidency Council on May 22, where it's said that the Camilo José Cela Foundation has a hired person, although budget information deduced that there are seven hired persons. According to the recent judiciary, several persons were charged on 29 May, including one member of the Galician Board of Auditors proposed by the majority group of this House. This imputation is due to a alleged offence of embezzlement of public funds that would have its origin in the agreed simulation of the dismissal of who was the manager of this foundation; a concerted simulation that resulted in a redundancies agreement of 96,000 euros turned into 150,000. Who today is account advisor and by that then member of the Patronate appears in the documentation as advisor to the person who, with executive functions in the foundation, orders, negotiates and commits this exit – presumably fraudulent – of the previous director. But it's just that, in addition to this person who performs these executive duties, he turns out to be the daughter of who was then a member of the Patronate and now an account advisor. And in order to improve this account, we must remember that they were members of that patronage, in addition to the Councillor for Culture and Tourism for that time, which today is councillor of Fairy and who was until recently the Councillor of Education and today the mayor of Ourense; people who represented the interests of the Council of Galicia and who approved this action by the executive bodies. Our goal is not to enter what the Patronate has done, but if we want to enter the situation that is created when a member of the Board of Auditors is charged with an action at the forefront of a foundation that is now part of the public sector and therefore a foundation that is to be monitored precisely by the Board of Auditors. So the questions are very simple. In fact, the surprising thing is that today, after more than a month, the Board of Auditors has not said anything at all, that the Board of Auditors has not said anything at all and that we have to come here to demand an explanation. How does Joina value the situation that has taken place? Will an entity in the public sector really be monitored for who is charged with an offence as a boss of that entity at an earlier time? How is this gonna work out? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u389	Thank you, Mr. Vázquez. You have the floor, to ask the question, Mrs. Pontón Mondelo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u390	Thank you very much, Counselor. From the Galego Nationalist Block we have been reporting for many years all the scandals that have been taking place and happening at the José Cela Camilo Foundation, and we have denounced them because a very important part of them have been sheltered and subsidized with public funds. Now, since Mr Feijóo's rule, at a time of crisis, this foundation has received nothing more and nothing less than about the two million euros, the figure we've known. We don't know if there's any other sort of back door deal that's giving him more resources. In any case, today we have here, in front of us, a car from May 29th this year that comes to confirm all the complaints we have made. In this car the Prosecutor says there was a dismissal that was not a dismissal, that was a termination, and that there was a communication to the Patroado on November 30, 2009 on what he asked for his termination. We know that at that meeting of this patronate were Marina Castaño, Jesús Vázquez Abad, Roberto Varela Farina and Dositeo Rodríguez; that is to say, both the Board of Galicia and the Dositeo themselves knew that Tomás Cavanna had applied for his resignation and, therefore, it is not understood that they collaborate in a procedure that says the Prosecutor's Office that it is illegal, that it is to simulate a dismissal to favor the surrender of EUR 150,000, which, by the way, are leaving the public archives, as the Board of Galicia acknowledges. The prosecutor says that this dismissal is a spook, but it doesn't stay here, they also tell us that in order to favour this gentleman even more economically – and to say a Fatenda technique – instead of taxing this as a compensation they made as diets so he wouldn't have to contribute and so he wouldn't be subject to retention. The Board of Galicia, therefore, is clearly committed to everything that is happening at this time because as far as I know Covadonga Rodríguez was appointed as manager of this foundation by Mr.Núñez Feijóo, and also because Dositeo Rodríguez – the former adviser of the People's Party – was proposed by the PP to be a member of the Board of Auditors. First of all, we want to know, Counsellor, whether you believe that it strengthens the trust of the Board of Auditors to have a member charged with misappropriation. We want to know if you think that the appointment of Dositeo Rodríguez on the Board of Auditors is legal, when it was part of the patronage of a foundation that you should audit and which also directs your daughter. And finally, your party, which believes that people by writing a tweet have to resign, what do you think these people have to do when the prosecutor accuses them of embezzlement of public funds, fraud, misappropriation and tax fraud? Answer it, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u391	The councillor for Culture, Education and Universitary Order, Mr. Román Rodríguez, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u392	Thank you very much, Madam President. I wanted to contextualize these questions. The Camilo José Cela Foundation, as you know, is a foundation that was originally born in the private domain. It was designed to defend the legacy of a significant author, such as Camilo José Cela, the only Nobel Prize in Wales; a figure of recognized national and international prestige and which has a very important cultural legacy, and, whether we burn it or not, born in Galicia. And by the way, at that moment, I had a certain risk of missing this foundation. On the basis of a basic premise, which is the responsibility and which is the maintenance of the cultural legacy of a person like Camilo José Cela, the Autonomic Administration proposed was to integrate this foundation into the public sector and made it, as I said earlier, to preserve a cultural legacy of the only Nobel in Wales, to maintain this legacy in Galicia... – of course, Spanish too, Mrs. Teresca, Greek and Spanish, no doubt. [[Mrs. Paz Franco utters words that are not perceived.]] And he did so on the basis of the parliamentary mandate led by a magnificent Member of this House, as was Tuco Cervino, of the Socialist Party, which the People's Party supported, and with the abstention of the Block – I think it is also important to say so –. [[Applause]] And he did it also with responsibility, putting forward a plan of viability. The Foundation had a decompositional staff expenditure, and it had a salary cost – basically from its manager – which was also absolutely decommunal; with which, when the Foundation's assimilation was considered, or, better said, the absorption of the Camilo José Cela Foundation from the private sector to the public domain, a plan of viability was proposed. This feasibility plan essentially involves redundancies from staff. You will understand that a manager who ran a salary of around EUR 100,000 could hardly explain that he could be integrated into the area of Galician Union. And from there, a lay-off plan was put in place for these people. You will also understand that practically what we're talking about is whether that compensation paid to the manager – which is what we're talking about – has been done according to law or not. And what did you tell us so far about the investigation? [[Laughter]] Well, the judicial investigation has a loophole, there are some documents, and there are some cars that say what they say, but obviously, since the Galician Union I think we've already posed an answer there isn't much in Commission 3a, and we've come to say that, obviously, all the workers are entitled to compensation. We also understand that the manager had a deal like the rest of the workers. Also – and it has been proposed in the Patroado itself – agreements have been adopted with a premise of legality – another thing is that now the judicial procedure says another question – and that it has been taken with the sole purpose of ensuring the future of a foundation which is responsible for securing and passing into the future a very important cultural legacy. In any case, and finally, ladies and gentlemen, what I want to make very clear is that there was no favour at any time...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u393	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u394	...that there was no lack of transparency at any time and that there has not been at any time a loss of the Greek public heritage. What we have been responsible for was a cultural legacy of great importance to Galicia, and to Spain, of course, and from the Council of Galicia, what we have been considering is full collaboration and full cooperation with regard to judicial proceedings and decisions. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And you, ladies and gentlemen, like me, will respect – I suppose – the procedures and the judicial procedures and will understand perfectly that politicians have become the commentators of legal proceedings that are under way is a weak favor to democracy. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u395	Replica by Don Emilio Vázquez Blanco, of the Socialist Group. If Mr. Losada lets you... Mr. Losada, please, let Mr. Vázquez Blanco speak. [[Mr. Losada Álvarez pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Do the favor. Mr. Vázquez, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u396	Counsellor, we do not want to enter into the functioning of the Foundation, although there would also be much to say about this, but this is not the object of the question I have asked you. The object of this question is the situation that has been created. The fact is that the judicial self on this matter has no waste. But what we have to talk about here is what this Parliament is talking about, which is the action of a member of the patronage representing the Government of the Union and which is now responsible for monitoring these accounts. But it is that documented conversations between people with executive functions and the Patronate are discussed in the judicial office to resolve a situation more appropriately and serving certain interests; interests that have to do with a dismissal that justice qualifies as "simulated dismissal" and of what the judiciary claims that the people mentioned above were aware that it was not a dismissal. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] In addition, the self-Judicial collected that this was done without consent by the administrations that financed the entity; a statement, of course, that contrasts with the version offered by the member of the Board of Auditors charged, who states that this action was welcomed by the Council of Galicia in accordance with the plan of viability paid with public funds. So, I think it is clear that you had Tomás Cavanna's farewell to the visit of the Galician Union and was done in accordance with the Public Funded Sustainability Plan? We are not going to prejudge the outcome of a judicial proceeding, but we do have to insist on what is the situation that will now be created with the accounts of this foundation. Until today, no explanations have been made by the Government of the United Nations and the Socialist Group wants to have the full conviction that the public accounts of any body will be audited by people who do not have stains of bias or conflict of interest, which is what appears to exist here widely documented, because, apart from the outcome of this judicial process, it is clear that there were kinship relationships that did not give rise to an inhibition between members of the Patronate representing the Union of Galicia and persons performing executive functions. This goes against any basic criteria of transparency in the administration, and it would certainly be appropriate not to repeat it in the future. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u397	Thank you very much. Mrs. Pontón Mondelo's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u398	Counselor, we're not talking about Cell – which I suppose you'll understand is part of the Spanish literary system; I imagine we'll be able to have an agreement on that – or about your figure, because I know that you always like to divert attention. And I want to ask you, to preserve the legacy of Cell, which is what you seem to be worrying about PP, what to do, Counselor? Is it necessary to do this sort of Cospedal precursors, what did you do here? She did "deferred redundancies," you make fake redundancies. It's really, really, really sad that you come here with a written paper trying to slip the bulk on a subject that seems very serious to us all. Of course, Junta recognizes that she paid off in official press releases as long as we were reporting everything that was going on at the Cell Foundation. What we didn't know at that time – because we didn't know this car or the records they didn't send to Parliament, despite a parliamentary agreement on that issue – is that this was not a dismissal, but a compromise where the favors were being paid to Marina Castaño. You'll have to explain that because it's very clear in the judicial office. And it's no pleasure to me; no grace, Counselor, because explain to me why we have to pay the compensation of EUR 150,000 to a private foundation master. Tell us why. How did Galicia benefit from this? And above all, are you not concerned that the control institutions of this Parliament are denigrated by a person who is accused and who has also accused his daughter, who is the manager of this foundation and who has appointed Mr Feijóo? And they come here to talk about transparency, you guys, asking people to resign for a tweet. But what are we talking about, Counselor? Is he really going to do an investigation and tell the People's Party that he doesn't agree with what's going on there? Of course, we...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u399	Thank you very much, Mrs. Pontón. [[Mrs. Pontón Mondelo speaks words that are not perceived.]] [[Applause]] Replica by Don Román Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u400	Ladies and gentlemen, I suppose you, honestly, will respect the judicial procedures. I suppose, and I ask you to be patient and respect the judicial procedures. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u401	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u402	Because, look, it's never good to brag, it's never good. And when politicians get to court, it's not usually a very healthy matter, is it? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Look, last week you said, Mrs. Pontón, that Parliament didn't report. Last week a high government position was reported to this Parliament. And, look, you seem to forget that there was a parliamentary mandate that proposed that the Galician Union take over the José Cela Camilo Foundation. There's a parliamentary warrant... and I'm sure if I don't... [[Mrs. Pontón Mondelo speaks words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u403	Mrs. Pontón!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u404	...the Foundation would be listening to fierce criticisms of losing... a cultural legacy of fundamental Galicia, and Spain. [[Murmurs.]] Surely the Block wouldn't protest, but the vast majority of Greek society would if it did. Surely the vast majority of Galician society would do so. [[Murmurs.]] But, look, here's a possible conflict of interest.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u405	Mrs. Pontón!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u406	I'd like to say the following. The Board of Auditors is a statutory body that depends on this house, not part of the Government; it is a statutory body that depends on this house. And there is a specific commission of relations with the Council itself. And I don't think it's prudent, honestly, on the part of the Government, to make assessments on this until the judicial procedure has its course. See, the Board of Auditors has sufficient mechanisms to solve a possible case of conflict of interest shock or conflict of interest. And, look, you will understand that the Government, that a representative of the Government, who is the controlled body, does not make assessments or assessments of the controlling body. I think that's a pretty important principle for us to make a separation of powers. [[Murmurs.]] And, look, it's not here – and I also want it to be very clear – to endorse the action or the management of previous managers, that will already do justice, and it will determine whether justice has been right or not. [[Murmurs.]] Here is what we've been dealing with and what we've been talking about at the moment is to preserve a cultural legacy that, obviously, for an immense majority of Galician society, deserves a respect and deserves, as it were in a simple way, an admiration, taking into account the figure and the cultural legacy that we have there. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And you're talking to us about an investigation. You know there's an ongoing judicial investigation. And that ongoing judicial investigation will have to clarify the irregularities produced. Is it going to be the judicial field that does it, or do we play the part in doing the judicial work? [[Mrs. Pontón Mondelo speaks words that are not perceived.]] I understand you don't.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u407	Mrs. Pontón, I'll call you in order.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u408	Well, look where, he's got a call to order, even if he's finishing up. [[Murmurs.]] Please do it! I suppose you can speak to the counselor who's answering you. Please do it! [[Murmurs.]] Mr. Losada, I asked you for no opinion, see if I'm going to have to call him in order too. Please do it! [[Murmurs.]] Counselor, continue, please. [[Mr. Fajardo Recouso pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Mr. Fajardo, would you like another call to order? You know, besides, there are a lot of articles that can be called order, right? [[Mr. Fajardo Recouso pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Please do it! [[Protests.]] Mr. Rodríguez, continue, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u409	All right, calm down, gentlemen; take it easy that it is not long before the session is over. Take it easy. [[Murmurs.]] Look, we're saying that in this case the Galician Union is developing and is collaborating with justice, as it cannot be otherwise. And we understand – so we have already said clearly, already said in this Parliament – that integration into the private foundation was done in accordance with law, with a basic premise: to ensure the viability of the Foundation's project. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I understand that the Block doesn't like it, perfect; we leave from that base: it doesn't like it; it's perfect. But, in any case, I think we should be careful, we should wait for the outcome of the judicial investigations, and, in any case, it can be very quiet because in this case the Council of Galicia is in a position in which it is respecting the judicial proceedings and is respecting the separation between the controlling body and the body that has to be controlled. [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] In any case – and already to finish – I'll tell you that you have to be careful because it's neither the first nor the second nor the third time you get into court, they make presumptions of guilt based on cars and then, when justice doesn't give them reason, they hide their heads like ostriches in the sand. [[Protests.]] With which, they're doing, as I said, a very weak favor to democracy. [[Murmurs.]] Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-23-DSPG116.u410	The agenda is run out, the session is up. Thank you very much and good night.
