ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-23-DSPG130.u1	The session is open. The agenda is published in the Official Gazette of the Parliament of Galicia, so it is not read. There was no justification for inattentiveness and we therefore entered the agenda with a single point, as you know. Full debate of the draft general budget law of the Autonomous Community of Galicia for the year 2016
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-23-DSPG130.u2	Mr. Valeriano Martínez García has the floor for the bill's presentation.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-23-DSPG130.u3	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. I compare today to the plenary session of Parliament to present the draft budget law of the Council of Galicia for next 2016. I have the great honour to bring to this House the budgets of recovery, growth and, above all, of people. Today we present expansion accounts that seek the transformation of the country by lowering taxes, creating jobs, investing in increasing and extending the recovery to the entire citizen. And how do we achieve these goals? With the biggest tax downturn in Galician history to increase citizens' income and encourage consumption. With policies that deepen the recovery of the labour market, increasing twice as much as budget resources to promote job creation. With an investment reinforcement to continue to grow more than the eurozone. And a complete package of social measures for recovery to all with opportunities to those who need it most. The Government brings to this House again, in time and in form, the fourth budgets of the legislation. Presenting budgets is an act of democratic normality that revalidates commitment to citizenship and represents the effective exercise of self-government. And on this occasion, it fits, its relevance is even greater, because in 2016 we will finally count on resources, so we can implement measures that we always want to take but that we cannot lead first by the adverse economic environment. For 2016, the big challenge is that this ever-increasing economic recovery moves completely into citizenship and has direct effects on employment and well-being, as well as on the evolution of our businesses; that's the only way we'll be talking about a fair and complete economic recovery. We've had very hard times, but we're convinced that we're starting to pick up the fruit of so much sacrifice. But ruling is to make decisions, and if we make a balance, I think humbly this government shielded and prioritized the essential for citizenship. Before explaining the content I wanted to pretend, I precisely pretended the importance of being able to present these accounts at a time when other administrations have not yet been able to approve their budgets for the next exercise. Galicia did, because it is the community with greater institutional stability, with a single and united government. Galicia today has competitive advantages with which no other territory of the state can compete, and we have to take advantage of it. Galicia is the most institutionally stable community in Spain. Galicia is solvent, of the few that keep its financial autonomy intact; and it's reliable, it has credibility and it generates confidence. Because exercising self-government and maintaining autonomy is used to pay bills, to maintain public services and make decisions to solve people's problems, to make people choose and each year be better than the previous one. And fortunately we're much better than three years ago, both in GDP – at the end of 2012 GDP was falling around 1%, while the last known data places the annual evolution at 1.8% positive, with almost three points in progress on legislation – as well as unemployment, which we have nearly 60,000 unemployed less than three years ago. But it's not enough, we have to keep improving. And the evolution of the past year is also positive, Galicia has 22,000 unemployed less than a year ago and has already accumulated two consecutive years with less unemployment at an annual rate. Galicia accounts for 18,500 more members of Social Security than a year ago, and we accumulate nineteen consecutive months at a positive inter-annual rate. The consumption continues to recover, as trade sales are rising by 3,5 % over the year even from the state average. The industrial sector continues its recovery, in which production has grown by 3.7% since the year, also above the Spanish average. Exports have grown to September by 4.4%, so 2015 is being consolidated as one of the best years of our export history. All of this encourages us to continue on this path, but I reiterate that it is not enough, we have to make the most of the year of legislation. And the best tool that a government has to improve people's lives is budgeting. As I said in the parliamentary committee, I would like to stress that the increasingly robust recovery of growth and the increasingly accused drop of unemployment is not the result of the accident, but that they respond to the great effort made by all the Greeks and the Greeks in the worst moments of the crisis. And the German Government helped to be responsible, always meeting with the public deficit the levels of indebtedness agreed among all, which allowed Galicia to be the community that has increased public debt in this legislation. How do we judge this government's behaviour in the matter of indebtedness? A comparison is more than enough to do it. Galicia was among the most indebted communities at the time of kindness. And during the crisis, when it's really necessary for administrations to be indebted, Galicia was among the least indebted, with five points below the average debt ratio/GDP. And another fact to be very careful, Galicia resisted the crisis by maintaining its financial autonomy without being intervened or conditioned in making its decisions. Almost all communities had to go to the rescue mechanisms of the Government of Spain, both the Providers' Plan and the Autonomic Liquidity Fund. Galicia was the only common regime community that didn't have to ask for a single euro of the nearly 100,000 million euros that enabled the Spanish Government for autonomy between 2012 and 2014. At all times we were able to pay our bills and in all circumstances, no matter what the enemy was, we were able to finance ourselves in the market for the trust and reliability that Galicia transmits. This allowed us to make our own decisions, thinking only of citizens and companies in Greece. In conclusion, this is self-government. This good work of Galicia – the fulfilment of the public deficit, the control of indebtedness and the maintenance of its financial autonomy – translates into tangible benefits and results for citizenship. This year Galicia has an additional EUR 85 million on the part of the state that we would not have had we not met the public deficit. Galicia, as a result of being a fulfilling community, will save in the interest of debt another 65 million euros, resources that we will be able to allocate to productive expenditure. There, ladies and gentlemen, the practical and positive effects for all the Greeks and the Greeks to have a responsible government and to meet the public deficit. Complying, therefore, with the public deficit allows Galicia to have an additional EUR 150 million. And we keep building trust. The confidence of the German entrepreneurs in the past year has grown by almost 6%, as a result of the best economic situation and job recovery. This confidence-building is also taking place in Galician homes and families. External opinions are unanimously optimistic and reinforce this perception of Galicia towards investors. Standard & poor's a week ago, this rating agency, raised Galicia's rating. Funcas and BBVA, in their latest macroeconomic forecast reports, raise the forecast of growth of the Italian GDP by 2016. Fedea – this foundation of analysis – points out that Galicia is one of the communities that best budget their incomes. The foundation, with its office of studies, highlighted in the summer that the Greek economy was already immersed in a path of growth. Airef points out that Galicia is of the few autonomys in terms of meeting the deficit in 2015 and 2016. The European Commission itself has just highlighted in a recent report that our community is one of the quickest to pay its suppliers. Ladies and gentlemen, we have credibility and we have confidence. Let's go to the macroeconomic table. Just like this year we wanted to be cautious in our estimates, more than prudent ultra-discreet. That's why we keep our estimate that GDP will close this year 2015 with a 2% increase – the best behavior since 2007 – and a half-percent higher than eurozone growth. Remember the opposition groups that they said a year ago? That 2% was an unrealistic forecast and we wouldn't do it. For time gives and takes away reasons, and today's date, November 23rd, and in a week when the official data for the third quarter will be known, I can confirm to them that Galicia is prepared to meet that growth forecast by 2% by 2015. I insist, this is going to close with the best economic growth data since 2007. And so it will be because from the beginning of the year, quarter by quarter, we are enduring the progress of GDP; an improvement that will continue from July to September, because growth in the third quarter will be better than in previous quarters. That's why we are again reliable and we have credibility for the estimates we make for 2016. Next year we will consolidate the important growth rates of this and we estimate that autonomous GDP will increase by 2.5%, one tenth more than expected in the expenditure ceiling approved in August. And this forecast is supported by several indicators: we believe that it will be possible to improve internal approach, which will increase by 2.7 per cent; by the significant increase in gross capital formation, by 5%, and by the greater recovery of final consumption, by 2.3 per cent, especially in homes, to those who will help the most important tax reduction in Galician history – which I will mention later –. For their band, exports will also improve, in particular, 4.1%. In this legislation it's reducing unemployment considerably, but we're satisfied, aren't we? Because there's still a lot of the Greeks who don't find a job, we have to do more to get them to work. And to make more these budgets include important parts to promote job creation, in particular up to 210 million euros, 8.7% more, than the average of the autonomous accounts. To achieve two goals: to lower the unemployment rate at almost two points, abandoning the psychological barrier of 20%, and to contribute to generating 18,000 new full-time equivalent jobs. This year we have recovered the net creation of jobs, a tendency that will consolidate the next exercise. We must continue on the path of responsibility that has led us to this point by controlling the deficit and the debt. Because after the toughest years of the crisis, we are sure that any community would be delighted to have the balance it presents today Galicia. Galicia was the community of reference in the control of the public deficit and also the community that has increased the debt in this legislation. And by 2016, in a much more favourable economic scenario and with more incomes, we will reduce the public deficit by more than half over this exercise. In the last closed exercise, 2014, Galicia was one of four communities that met, and in 2015, with data up to August, Galicia is ready to meet again; so will we do with the limit of 0.3% for 2016. This control gives its fruit and is positive for citizens, not only brings short-term benefits, as I've already told them with these additional 150 million euros for Galicia between 2015 and 2016, but also in the long term, because we keep control of debt and we'll pay less interest than next year. That is why we have stabilized the maximum levels of indebtedness and from next year on we will begin the necessary fall of the debt ratio/GDP, which, however, I want to insist that it is, today, five points below the Spanish average. Turning to the actual budget figures in 2016, we will have a spending capacity for the first time, since the last few years, significantly higher than the previous one, namely 365 million euros, which brings us to a non-financial expenditure of 8,804 million euros, because 2016 marks a certain recovery in revenue. We'll count on a closer approach to the self-financing system of more than 500 million additional, 8.1% more, up to 6,736 million. They also record a significant increase in European fund shares reaching 522 million, 25.8% more than this year, since we are in a position to include resources from all funds in the new Community framework. Thus, non-financial revenues for 2016 will rise to 8,620 million, that is 6.7% more. The important thing is that this rise in income will allow this Government to make political decisions that every year they wanted to make, but that the continued decline of income had made it unviable until now, and in a special way can bring to practice the greatest tax discount in Galicia's history. They repeatedly asked us to make an effort to promote domestic consumption and demand. Today it is possible to carry out this impulse, and since it is possible to do so, we make the political decision to put 140 million euros more at the disposal of citizenship. We want the Greeks to be among the least tax paid from all over Spain. Ladies and gentlemen, although you have already had the opportunity to discuss these measures, just remember what they consist of: firstly we lower the autonomic section of the IRPF to make it more progressive, from 5 to 7 trams, and to benefit to a greater extent the low and medium incomes, which will be among the least taxed in Spain. This will allow an annual saving of up to EUR 380 per declarant and will benefit more than 98,5 % of the taxpayers. Secondly, we lower the tax on inheritances and donations so that 99% of direct relatives will not pay for it and the remaining 1% will pay less. Zero taxes, therefore, for heirs of up to 400,000 euros among direct relatives. Galicia will always place autonomy with lower tax burden. And thirdly, we've completed the zero tax strategy in rural areas, with 100 percent deductions to buy a farm, to continue with a farm and expand a farm. And by having more income, we can have more spending capacity, the highest of this legislation up to 8,804 million, 365 million more than this year, as they already mentioned earlier. And, ladies and gentlemen, in a given case I have to give them reason, I have to admit that this budget includes a cut, a big cut, the down payment of interest, which decreases by almost 20%, that's the big cut of those budgets. Pay less for financial expenses; this and not the other is the treasury that hides these budgets. [[Applause]] And we re-enhancing priorities: first, social expenditure, we shielded it when budgets went down year by year with 8 out of every 10 euros for health, education and social services, and when the accounts grow we spent 282 million, almost 80% of the additional resources, to strengthen health, education and social services. Of these nearly 200 million euros plus Galician public health and education, and with more resources we're looking for people who need it most to have more opportunities. I reiterate that the Government's first concern remains to be made easier as far as possible by improving the opportunities to find a decent job. With more inclusive employment, 15% more resources are available for active employment policies, with an additional €7.5 million for training and always giving attention to youth and long-term unemployed. In health, this Government's wager for public health is unquestionable, because it accounts for 40% of the total budget, up to 3,513 million euros, 103 more than this year; that is, four out of ten euros of the budget are destined for health. With investments such as the completion of the Director Plan of the University Hospital Complex of Coruña; the equipment of the surgeons; the completion of the Director Plan of the Hospital Complex of Ourense; the Director Plan of the Burela hospital; the bidding of the new director plan, and the initiation of the works and reforms of the architect's Hospital Marcide de Ferrol. Within the promotion of health and disease prevention are of great importance those of vaccinated and enslaved, with more than 14 million euros. In the area of education, we shield the supported system with public funds, with criteria of universality, financial adequacy and equity. We will call for a public job offer of more than 1,000 places for children's, primary, secondary and vocational education, and investment for educational infrastructures with more than 21 million euros will increase by almost 30%. In addition, we provide stability for the Greek universities, with a five-year funding plan amounting to EUR 2.400 million, a third of which is linked to objectives. By 2016 we are destined for universities 392 million euros, 18 more than in this exercise. In social policy actions, with the new councillor, the resources are 12.6%, the triple that budget, to continue supporting families and those who need it most. Thus, the family and children will be a central axis of the Government's action, with direct assistance and new measures and services aimed at promoting reconciliation. Among the new programs is the bond-conciliation, for those who want to take their children to a childhood school and have no place in one of the Unions receive help. The bonus-care in the countryside, for families with children who live in this area and who also have the right to have a conciliation remedy near their homes. And the direct assistance of EUR 100 per month in the first year for basic expenses for each child born from next year, which will benefit eight out of ten families. In social inclusion, which has the range of specific general direction, we will prioritize attention to people who most need it with 24% more of the budget. We reserve a EUR 20 million allocation for the Plan to Combat Inequity, to extend the aid to people with more difficulties: among these is the electric ticket, the purchase of school materials, the Programme repeats, for people who cannot afford rent and the promotion of social rent, for families at risk of death. In the area of dependency care, the commitment is to recognize 10,000 new beneficiaries in the system, with which we will reach the 50,000 people assisted. Our main concern is to meet the demands of the people who need it most. In terms of economy and industry, we have 45% more resources for companies to gain size and bet on job-generating projects, in addition to promoting innovation and internationalisation with a global stake of 85 million euros. In addition, we will continue with the Galicia 1000 programme and enable innovative financial instruments that add up to 10 million euros. In addition, in lines of loan with EIB and ICO funds, with 112 million, you add a minimum of 10 million euros with Jérémie loans and we will launch a call in Galicia with 20 million euros up to 2020. Even so, in the development framework of the Galicia-Industry Competitiveness Agenda 4.0 we continue to move towards the smart factory and become an opportunity for our productive fabric. We reserve 60 million euros that will allow you to mobilise 155. Among other outstanding actions are the development of the technology and industry of unmanned Rozas aircraft with 55 million euros, and biotechnology, which has 10 million euros to activate the support strategy capable of consolidating an industry that employs 1,400 highly qualified people. We reinforce with EUR 37 million by saving energy efficiency in pemes, families, administrations, especially in biomass, but also in geothermal, aerothermia and thermal solar. The budget is also tripled to continue the planning of the modernisation and innovation of the proximity trade. At the end of this legislation, more than 80% of the population will be less than 15 minutes from a high-performance route. In 2016 it will enter into service, from the summer, the highway of the Costa da Morte, and also in the same exercise the stage Celero-San Cibrao and the access to the port of Burela, of the high capacity road of the north coast. Another important performance, with nearly 18 million, will be carried out on the highway of Morrazo, since after bidding this year the work in its first stretch, it will be possible to adjudication and the beginning of the works of the second stretch, as well as the advance of the project of the third frame. With regard to mobility of 18 million, 57% concentrates on promoting collective public transport through the Metropolitan Transport Plan. In addition, the works of the Intermodal Station of Vigo will begin, which will be the first of Galicia, in addition to progress towards the constructive projects of the intermodals of the Coruña, Santiago and Ourense. The housing, another area of great importance to this government, we dedicate 19% more. In the environment area, water sanitation is particularly important after approval of the new hydrological plan for the Galician demarcation, a global budget of EUR 655 million up to 2021, from which the Union will reach 423. Land management will be another priority. The new law on soil, currently in parliamentary process, will seek to achieve maximum consensus, as we have already incorporated 80% of the allegations received. We aim for a triple objective, territorial planning, rural development and landscape protection. He's also looking for no city council without a general plan for municipal planning. In rural areas, we have allocated EUR 600,000 of own funds to co-finance the aid order for the financing of circulating restructuring of the debt of dairy holdings. We doubled productive investment on the mountain, with about EUR 51 million for the value and use of this natural heritage, and tripled the resources for the establishment of forest development societies to value the property of the mountain. In addition, we are the first community to pay the advance of aid from the common agricultural policy amounting to €65.3 million, which benefits 26,000 German farmers and farmers. In fisheries, the largest department in the world, the priorities are to improve marketing, with the strengthening of programmes to improve the competitiveness of production, with particular emphasis on funds for processing, marketing of products from the sea. With the new European Maritime and Fisheries Fund, there will be nearly 500 million public aid for the entire period, preferably for the development of a sustainable fisheries support plan, the relaunch of aquaculture as a source of wealth and employment and the diversification of the maritime-fishing economy. In culture, we have 61% more for heritage conservation, with parts for the maintenance of the San Fernando barracks in Lugo, the restoration of the cathedral of Mondoñedo, the valuable position of the monastery of Soprado dos Monxes and the restoration and maintenance of the wall of Lugo, as well as the conditioning of the old bridge of Ourense or the preservation of the monastery of Oseira. To promote the English language, we maintain the stakes for language dynamisation activities, as well as support for the media in the English language and publishing companies of our community, the scholarships of the Ramón Piñeiro Center and the financing of the Royal Academy. Among the most important developments in this issue, the launching of the Greek legal portal, a pioneering measure in Spain, which will allow the free access of all citizens to established standards for the use of our language in administration and justice. They will also start operating terminology tools that will facilitate the use of Greek in ICT. We will also continue the work of promoting Greek abroad, with reading scholarships at the universities of the rest of Spain and abroad and with agreements with entities such as the Cervantes Institute. On the other hand, Justice, with 12% more resources, reaches its highest endowment in history. In 2016 we will address three major projects in the cities of Coruña, Pontevedra and Vigo, following the reforms of the judges of Ferrol and Monforte Street, of Coruña, and the construction of new buildings in Santiago, Ourense and the old town of Vigo. In equality, we have increased the resources of EUR 1.7 million, with increases in direct aid to women victims of gender-based violence, women entrepreneurs and social-initiatives. And we're strengthening our commitment to funding the municipalities, in more than 3 million euros, up to 116, and we're encouraging municipal mergers, with a fund with something more than 2 million euros. Once the main actions have been taken in the budgets, I would also like to recognize again the efforts of public servants during the years of economic crisis and reiterate our gratitude to them, because with their efforts they have helped to shield public services and maintain the financial autonomy and solvency of the Autonomous Community. During the worst moments, since the German Government we bet on giving them stability. We are the most stable community that maintained its number of troops during the economic crisis. Since 2009, we have offered 7,500 fixed places in public job offers, and I can announce that by 2016 we will make new calls that will offer more than 2,100 jobs in public services, the biggest offer in recent years. In addition, we drive transfer contests, because since 2009 we offer more than 6,800 squares. We also facilitate time flexibility, which has already been accommodated by more than 7,700 public employees, and we move on to telework. And nearly 450 workers welcomed the partial retirement regime, agreed between the Administration and trade union organizations. In terms of salary, this year we have returned half of the outstanding central government salary in 2012, and for the next year we will return the remaining half. Similarly, next year public employees will see their wages rising by 1%, at the first rate since 2010. We've also just signed an agreement with trade union organizations so they can have extra days by antiquity. And I can point out that in the next few weeks we will reconvene the organizations to propose to them the creation of specific recruitment lists for people with intellectual disabilities, and we will also meet with the representative entities of this sector to deal with the following welcome procedures and the characteristics of the workplaces to be developed. Galicia will be one of the first autonomous communities to offer intellectual disabled people both fixed and temporary public employment. It's perhaps a small measure in the set of actions of a large budget, but it's an inclusive initiative very dear to us, which I present with great honor, because it is supposed to place our country at the forefront of access to public employment for people with intellectual disabilities. Before I finish, I will refer to the Strategic Plan of Galicia 2015-2020, a tool with which, budgeting, we want to consolidate our community as an increasingly attractive place to live and with more and more opportunities to work and invest. In addition, each budget, starting with 2016, will include programming on the Strategic Plan and the sectoral plans that are approved, and should always be referred to and ensure fit in the budget. Before the end of this year, the German Government will bring in the final document so that it will be debated and enriched by the House's groups. Now to finish, and after the first three years of the legislation, I insist that we all agree that the economic situation is much better today than it was three years ago. And we will all also agree that this Government has been clear and has predicted, quite realistically, the evolution of the economic situation, because, if we make history, in every budget that we have presented in recent years we have been realistic and we estimate a scenario that was later reasonably fulfilled in accordance with the forecast. So in 2013 we anticipated that this year would begin to change the economic trend, and the course of that exercise confirmed it. For the 2014 accounts we estimated to recover economic growth, although in a modest way, but we would already leave the recession behind, and the closure of that exercise has also ratified it. And in the 2015 budgets we planned to improve and consolidate those positive rates, until we reached some levels that would allow us to create net jobs, and what's going on in the year is so being and is corroborated. Ladies and gentlemen, at the end of the day, reiterating that these budgets are those of recovery, of growth and especially of people, because all the additional resources we have are dedicated to people's needs, have as a priority to consolidate economic growth and job creation, including the greatest tax reduction in the history of Autonomy, collect a full package of social measures to favour those who need it most, aim to fight decisively against inequality and against the demographic decline, bet on significantly increasing investment, are both prudent and realistic, so that they can be executed and met. Budgets, for example, with less taxes, more growth, more employment and more well-being. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Debates and votes on the amendments to the whole proposal for a global refund of budgets or of any section or expenditure centre
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-23-DSPG130.u4	Thank you very much, Counselor. We begin the intervention of the different parliamentary groups, first of all by the debate and voting on amendments to the whole that demand the overall return of budgets or of any section or expenditure manager, i.e. group 1. The Joint Parliamentary Group presents an amendment for a global return, and the parliamentary groups of the BNG, the Left and Socialist Galician Alternative, present an amendment for a global return and an amendment for a refund of budget allocations from sections or expenditure managers. We then begin with the round for the defence of amendments, with the representative of the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Martínez García. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-23-DSPG130.u5	Thank you, President. Good morning to all and to all. Good morning, Counselor. Well, I must begin by congratulating you on your intervention. It was a great demonstration of how propaganda is made, how it is sold for nothing, and how it is attempted to deceive the population and use budgets to make electoral propaganda. It was really an intervention that I would qualify as pathetic and regressive and misleading. But I must begin by confessing, too, that I come to this budget debate with a different spirit from what I had when the debate on the state of the nation, or as you call it, the general political debate. Then she was excited by a unique Greek candidacy, which brought together the left and the nationalism of this country. I was sure that, if so, we could defeat the neoliberal policies of the People's Party, end the austerity policies that condemn the majority of society to poverty and lead it to suffering all these years. Many people in the community have seen possible the dream of the social majority of this country, who often suffer problems; many people still dream of ending the rotten regime that crushes citizenship and ruines and destroys our nation. The unity of action between the organizations, platforms and citizenship we decided to defend was not possible. Party minorities, sectarians and pits of their spaces, which finally ended up in two applications, were able to impose themselves on the common sense of the majority, for the joy of the parties of the regime, of the young and old. But we have to look forward and overcome frustration, however well founded it is. It's not worth waiting for the autonomous elections within a year. People's needs, country's demands can't wait. We must prevent frustration from benefiting from the regime represented by the People's Party, Citizens and the summit of the Socialist Party. Galician citizenship is alive, and it fights against the policies of the regime when workers and workers defend their rights, when they defend the productive sectors of our land, from 1972 to Never More, through peasant struggles, general strikes, the defense of health and public education, and in the struggle for the treatment of hepatitis C, in the struggle for the rights of returned emigrants, and in so many other struggles that show that Galicia does not surrender. This is the stage in which these advertising budgets will be approved. Electoralism, which denounces all changes in return, is truly the difference between the 2016 budget project and that of the last three years. Since the cuts in previous years, which were even further than the spending ceiling requires, they have changed the pessimistic forecasts that justified the cuts in optimistic forecasts, and 363, with 2 million euros of the budget settlement in 2014, to skip the spending ceiling, fixed for autonomous communities at 1.8%. The board has a budget with an increase of 4.3%, more than twice as much, but, as we are in the election year and the government of the state has done the same thing in 2015, it's not going to tell them anything. I'm not going to enter an analysis of the budget often, because I recognize my inability to understand all the budget splits with the level of detail you need and because to make useless carpets is already the People's Party. Therefore, I do not present amendments to the sections, because they are impossible to attend, but also because I doubt that the People's Party will accept amendments to budgets aimed at policies that improve public services, investing only in essential infrastructures or protecting children, so that they will never again give cases like that of the Infanta Elena school in Monforte, which must stop their work of integration by not assigning to Together a mixed economic game, compared to any of the illegal commissions that dissipate public funds in any of the favourable deals to friendly companies that are being investigated in the multiple operations in which they begin to explore their corruption. I will support the amendments of the opposition groups that defend the policies that this country needs. What we need to know is whether the People's Party is willing to listen or will continue in its line. I will limit myself to justifying the amendment I tabled to the whole of my return to the Budget Bill of the Galician Union by 2016. As I said, these are budgets made for the election year, with timely measures that, in addition, do not count on the guarantee of their compliance in 2016. We are already used and used to the failure of government budgets Feijóo. These are not the budgets that Galicia needs right now after seven years of the austere government of Feijóo. To prioritize and intervene effectively from the budgets of the Union in order to recover economic activity and promote job creation, to set population, together with the protection of the big ones affected by the crisis, are not the priorities of the budget that they present to us. In relation to gross domestic product, according to data made public by INE, Galicia is located as the third community in which economic activity fell most between 2010 and 2014, with an average annual fall of 1.1%, compared to an average fall of 0.6. As far as employment is concerned, 143,000 jobs have been destroyed since 2009, of which 37,000 were industrial jobs. The rate of poverty or the risk population in social exclusion has grown due to unemployment and work insecurity. 153,000 people employed in Galicia survive below the poverty line, with monthly wages below the minimum interprofessional wage. The number of inhabitants decreased as a result of negative natural growth, due to the high average age and the lack of births caused by the strong emigration of the newer population due to the lack of job expectations. The impoverishment of the working class, of the pensioners, of the civil servants, of youth, of the gain and the gain, of the people of the sea and of the women. That is the result of the budget policy practised by Together as a solution to economic recession and which now sells us as a triumph of its policies, applying more and more austerity instead of developing anticyclical policies to amortize the recession. For these budgets they paint a macroeconomic scenario appropriate to the needs of electoral spending that they want to make in the year of the election. The 2.5 % increase in gross domestic product is found in the rise in domestic demand with a calculation on the increase in household consumption which hardly corresponds to the level of unemployment or the low-wage policy and the precarious employment that are in progress. The goal is to win the election. That is why they take propaganda measures as useless as inappropriate, such as, for example, lowering direct taxes or the baby check, which only avoid adopting policies that guarantee the recovery of the population in the medium term and promote birth. But besides, this baby check will only be for those children or children born from December 31st. He who is born at 23.55, that child has no need to cover, that child has no need; the date is marked. That's why propaganda, because it could be if I started flying from January 1st, but it was for all children under one year of age, no. The level of propaganda reaches such a height that it will be only for children born from January. In short, budgets to continue to govern, to continue serving their masters, the companies of Ibex 35. Of the tax reforms envisaged in these budgets, to say that, first of all, it is not the time to reduce public income when social needs are of an unknown magnitude in recent history. Secondly, it is measures that exacerbate the regression of the tax system, since it is directly taxed to those who apply the discount, benefiting above all – as the People's Party always does – the high incomes within a tax model already scandalously regressive. It is the same as extending the frames when the percentage that is applied does not exist and continues to benefit from those most paid incomes. There is no correlation between wages, income and application of IRPF. Pure propaganda that will not solve the lives of the poorest people, the lives of the most vulnerable people, but will benefit from the consumption of those who already have. Maybe that's why in trade the only non-lower trade is luxury trade, that's not low trade. And I don't know what to call it anymore, but I think it's inappropriate for you to come here to talk about support for proximity trade when all trade support is dedicated to large multinationals who settle in large shopping centers. And you are annihilating the proximity trade, which is the trade that creates stable jobs, and not that eventual employment and part-time trade, which impoverishs the working class and especially women, which is the number of people who work the most in this sector. On the other hand, this type of tax measures contributes to the weakening of the public sector, the main objective of this government. Of course, your bet is not the defense of the public sector, but the privatization of the public sector. And to privatize the public sector, the first thing they're doing is to destroy the public sector, so that private companies benefit from the big business they assume, for example, health, education and social services. And the demographic problem, namely the depopulation of rural and villages, aims to shorten it with the 100 euro baby check. The dozens of thousands of young people and girls who emigrated during these years, precarious work or long-term unemployed people and therefore, without benefit, the poor workers and workers for the PP have nothing to do with depopulation and low birth rates. A review of the budget distribution allows a certain detail of the budget project. As for general actions, the planned budget increases by 13.3%, highlighting the 8 million intended for the 2016 electoral process. The People's Party, in its identity self-denial line, does not increase the budget for linguistic normalization, it remains in the same terms as in 2015, when all studies are giving the alarming voice about the deprotection situation that the Greek language is suffering in relation to the Spanish language and the loss of spokespersons. The budget for civil protection is down by 28.5 % and transfers to the provincial consortia against fires are maintained. But, yes, tomorrow, the vice president will come to sell the integrated emergency management plan. It will have to explain what money will be done to prevent, coordinate and provide sufficient personnel and material and training. You'll have to explain how Seaga's staff will assume a claim that enters that Public Employee Improvement Plan and that you don't even appoint. But, yes, we won't have helicopters, we won't have means, we won't have personnel, there won't be forest firemen, nor will there be a specialized body to handle forest fires, but we're going to have two drones; so it seems, Junta intends to solve everything. Propaganda. So one of the star initiatives just presented to us is precisely the Rozas aerodrome. Junta is, of course, very crowded in this sector, you don't know whether it's for civil or military purposes, but interest is clear. In social protection and promotion, the budget for Galicia's social inclusion income grows by 10.6%, not because it's going to go up the count to improve the quality of life of people who perceive it, but because of the increase in poverty. It does not reflect in budgets the announced involvement of the Board to improve the reconciliation of working, personal and family life. In line with their birth policies, the baby cheque replaces conciliation; of course, without forgetting about the children's houses and those measures which, of course, promise great progress. While it's more critical of budgeting in relation to gender-based violence, it makes it clear that violence against women is not a priority for the People's Party, not even in the election year. The budget for the promotion of employment reached – as the advisor said – the EUR 210 million, in all respects insufficient to cope with the unemployment and precarious work situation of Galicia in all its productive sectors. The total number of people without a job is 222.092 people, 143,000 jobs have been destroyed since 2009. Long-term unemployment is around 154,000 people, only 1 in 5 unemployed people in Greece receives unemployment benefit. The small job created is temporary, part-time, and very connected to the service sector and therefore to exceptionality. What do you boast about? What is your job achievement? Of course, we must have a lot of courage to come here and talk about the progress this government has made since 2009 and during this legislation. It is clear from these budgets that the path to employment recovery and the creation of industrial employment will not be possible in this legislation. And, as far as public employment is concerned, it certainly deserves a great criticism that on the one hand comes to talk about recovery, about lowering taxes because there are already money -- it's no problem to meet the immediate needs of the Greek society -- but they're unable to commit to returning what they've taken from them, which has usurped the workers and public workers. And now they come here to talk about the rights that will be returned to them, as if it were a gift that the Administration makes to them, and when they don't talk about returning the amounts owed to them all these years. Of course, I've never looked at anyone defending -- I don't want to say it -- I don't know how to say it, but it's really a theft of workers and public workers -- as a financial benefit measure, as if they didn't deserve it or it wasn't something that was owed to them. The increase in budgets in health and education is not enough for investments in these two fundamental areas for society in general, to recover from these years in which their harsh austerity policies have been applied. It's hard to understand that the primary care budget does not increase, insisting on Joina in a healthcare model focused on specialized care, definitely abandoning the Primary Care Improvement Plan. You go against the current, because you only think about the headlines, because you don't care about the medium and long-term policies that really solve the structural problems of this country. You only want headlines to get the vote in this year's state elections and mainly in the next year's autonomous elections. But they do not, of course, think about how health care in this country would be improved, and of course they do not think of anything in the situation of extreme need in health services that our rural environment has. In education, it is incomprehensible to lack of commitment to education, to teachers and teachers, to the ANPA, to the children and to the children, especially to children with special needs, after the rise in complaints we've had over 2015. There are also no measures to improve care for children in institutions, there is no measure to guarantee the quality of life of these children, to ensure that institutions are the last resource, and that there are many other solutions that improve the life of these children, such as protected housing, so that these children and children live in family environments that improve their social integration. But that's not a problem for the Galician Union either. With regard to the government's commitment to R & D+i, it is not reflected in these budgets, so I understand that it will continue to be committed by the private initiative, that is to say, to abandon public research and to give up stable research teams in the administration. Within industry, energy and mining, the biggest thing is the renewable energy efficiency program designed to promote biomass, the rest of renewable energy remains beyond the support of the Union beyond propaganda. Investments for the economic dynamisation of the rural environment are no more than just subsidies to private enterprises for forest exploitation, disregarding any other economic sector related to the rural world. In short, we are faced with the electoral budgets that seek large headlines in the press and laugh at the needs and hardships of the Greek people with propaganda measures. But I didn't expect anything else, it's the budgets of the People's Party, the Prestige Party, England, Iraq; the friendly party of those who cause genocide in Afghanistan, Iraq, Libya, Palestine, Syria and many African countries. And when Belgians and French people born and raised in discrimination against the poor neighborhoods of European cities make a brutal and disgusting attack in Paris, the answer is to bombard the Syrian civilian population. That is why – I repeat – it is necessary to look forward and overcome frustration to prevent the police state and the misery these budgets want to impose based on fear. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-23-DSPG130.u6	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. Mr. Jorquera Caselas has the floor for the defence of amendments.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-23-DSPG130.u7	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen. Counsellor, some budgets are the first that have to be credible, and the first problem with these budgets is that it's impossible to believe them. In politics it's important to have memory. You now announce a money order, they claim that the goal of these budgets is to transfer recovery to citizens. Don't you remember what they said last year? They say, "These are the budgets of consolidation of economic rotation, economic and social recovery," they said when they presented the budgets for the current financial year 2015. They announce that these are the first expansional budgets since the start of the crisis. Did you tell them that in politics it's important to remember, then you lied last year? Because when they presented the budgets for 2015 they also said that for the first time since 2009 the budgets saw more investments. I don't know if you've been aware that they've been announcing the arrival of the good news for several years, but the good news hasn't just been produced. These budgets, as much as I'm adopting them, are not social budgets, nor are they oriented towards the reactivation of the economy and job creation; they're continuous budgets, they persist in policies that are leading to ruin our country as much as they cover up this continuity, aware of the despicableness that caused their policies with electoral attachments. I insist: I said that in politics it's important to have memory, you yourself said that time gives and takes away reasons. "Galiza has anticipated the fight against the crisis and will also anticipate the recovery," said Mr. Núñez Feijóo in the debate of the nation's state. Let's see how true this statement is, Counselor. You assume that your government is predictable, reliable, prudent in its predictions, "ultraprudent" has come to say, only lacking that it says hypermegaultrudent. Let me review the reliability of your forecasts throughout this legislation: In the 2012 budgets, we expect an increase in our GDP of 1.1%. They got the number, it's true, but they got confused about the sign, because 2012 closed with a fall of 1.1%. The ultra-discreet government forecasts only diverted 200%. In the 2013 budgets they were more cautious, instead of an increase they estimated a drop in GDP of 0.9%. The problem, Counselor, is that the fall was still larger than 1.1%. In 2014 GDP was expected to grow by 0.8%, and only increased by 0.5%, three tenths less than the estimated. Despite the prudence and reliability of his Government, the Greek economy has grown three times less than the average of the Spanish state. By this 2015 they have equated their forecasts to the most optimistic growth forecasts for the state as a whole, estimated a 2% GDP increase. But the reality, despite the prudence and reliability of his government, is that in the first half of the year, the Spanish economy was 2.9 % afraid and the Galician did only 1.6. They didn't hit one, Counselor. Look, speaking of ultra-prudence, they've been announcing that Galicia will be out of the crisis before and with more vigor than anyone else, and it turns out that in 2014 Galicia has been in the growing queue and in which we have seen the economy of Greece grow only half as much as the Spanish economy. He understands all these precedents that we don't believe in the predictions of his government. In these budgets, moreover, they implicitly recognize the failure of their policies; they envisage an increase in GDP of 2.5 % by 2016, a forecast if we meet these precedents too optimistic, but they already start from a forecast of half-point growth below that of the state's whole. But the relevant thing is that you yourself admit that the main scourge is the weakness of domestic demand, a whole indicator of the social and economic depression that follows Galicia. And, in addition, they recognize that the final consumption of public administrations, ultimately, the component that depends on the Union and the Government of the State basically, is what will experience a lower growth. The relevant one, Counselor, is that you yourself predict that investment, consumption and job creation will have worse behavior in Galicia than in the state as a whole. In short, the crack is getting bigger and bigger. Now they say job creation will be the priority. Do you know how long our active population has descended since 2009, when Mr. Núñez Feijóo, absent from this debate, has arrived in the presidency? In 69,400 people, a decrease of 5.2%. Do you know how many busy we lost? About 131.300, a decrease of 11.2%. Do you know how many more people are unemployed? About 61,200, an increase of 38%, Counselor. Look, what I just brought is not numbers, behind these figures there are a lot of personal dramas. I'd tell him that the gap is growing with you. And it's true that it touched them to rule during one of the greatest crises they remember; a aggravated crisis in addition to our country, because it has joined the structural crisis that Galicia was already suffering because of our dependence. But the problem, Counselor, is that your policies have only served to accentuate the subordination and marginalization of our country. Look: the data, however much I'm inclined to throw it out, they speak for themselves. Since 2009, the number of unemployed has grown 183% more in Galicia than in the Spanish state. Since 2009 the number of busy people has dropped 175 percent more in Galicia than in the Spanish state. This is the reliability for Galicia's government. The active population since 2009 has fallen in Galicia by 300.5 % more than in the Spanish state. These are the magnitudes of the economic and social disaster caused by their policies. That's why, when we say that your Government, that the Government to which you belong leads Galicia to ruin, we're not repeating a slogan, Counselor. And understand that with these precedents, we didn't create the government's commitment to job creation either. Now, in order to fuel the false illusion of the crisis exit, they launch the bells on the flight because in 2015 unemployment has fallen, ignoring that the little job that is being created is precarious employment. Nine out of ten contracts are temporary, and many are less than a week's duration, Counselor. Do you know what EPA says in the third quarter? That the temporary contracts increased by 13,8 % and the undefined only by 0,2 % compared to the previous quarter. But if we talk about the annual comparison, the time contracts went up by 15.7, while the undefined ones dropped by 0.7%. Mr. Counsellor, if we talk about employment, the relevant thing is that one of the three full-time Greek employees does not reach the millionaire; and if we talk about the total number of employees, 31% of the workers in Greece and the workers in Greece receive less than the minimum wage. That's the dramatic reality, Counselor: a new category is being born, that of the poor workers; having a job no longer exempts from falling into poverty. And if we talk about employment, the relevant thing is that if you think about net employment. There's no point in reducing the unemployment rate if it's because people migrate and reduce the active population. Don't I know if you've had a chance to read this headline, Counselor? I want to read it: "Every day they're going to work another community 76 Galicians, the maximum of the last seven years." These workers who are emigrants shouldn't have known that Galicia was anticipating the rest of the autonomous communities at the end of the crisis. And despite this dramatic situation, in the economic and financial report you recognize that it will continue to reduce the active population; it will continue to reduce the active population in a country that already has one of the lowest rates of activity in Europe. Do you know what the third quarter EPA says about that? That the rate of activity in Galicia is only 53.5%, that there are 500 active people less than three months ago, and in the annual comparison the fall of the active population is 1.1%, the fourth largest of the state, Counsellor. I was saying at the beginning of my intervention that these budgets are not credible. They're not credible because they're based on fictional predictions, systematically denied by reality. But besides, in these budgets, they want to make us believe in the square of the circle. It is not conciliable for an expansive policy on spending to extend tax reductions and meet the targets of the deficit. As I've already told you, Counselor, it's going to happen like the general budgets of the state. The European Union has already warned you that the Government resulting from the 20th December elections will have to adjust them. You can't blow and suck at the same time. You can't increase the expenditure, lower taxes and meet the targets of the deficit of those who so much claim their government. As soon as the Union fills its mouth with another government, it accepts a total and absolutely unfair breakdown of the targets of the deficit; a breakdown by virtue of which the State reserves for itself 78.6% and assigns only 10.7% of the total deficit to the autonomous communities. Mr Counsellor, I reiterate what we have already told you in the Commission, one of two: either it is going to breach the deficit target, or, what is much more serious, these budgets are wet paper, even before they are approved. You also say it's an expansive budget, welcome to the club, Counselor. From the beginning of the crisis we warned that policies based on cuts only serve to feed a vicious circle, for apart from their deeply unjust character, they contract demand and hinder recovery. Now he's trying to make us believe that these budgets contemplate measures that they've always wanted to take, but they couldn't because of the circumstances, when the problem is that elections are coming up and, therefore, now is when you remember the expansion policies. Expanding policies only in appearance, Counsellor, because there is no real bet in these real budgets for expanding productive investment and social spending. They say it's an expansive budget because non-financial expenditure increases by 365 million euros, when since 2009 government cuts presided over by Mr.Núñez Feijóo amount to more than 9,9 billion euros; that is, with these budgets only recover 3.68 % of the total cut. But there's also a saying that paper holds everything. You've already been accustomed to budgeting so soon you won't run, you see an increase in investment of 174 million euros, but it turns out that in 2014, the last liquidated exercise, the execution of real investments did not reach 72%, and the execution of capital transfers to 68%. In one suggestion that it should be fundamental to boost economic growth, as is the Economic and Industry Council, it turns out that the real investment execution was only 61%, and in chapter VII it only reached 52.2%. And now that they say they double resources for active employment policies, it's good to remember that the running of different employment programs has ranged between 67% and 71%. In short, they stopped running nearly 1 euro every 3. Perhaps, as I've already told you, this is the reason why these two councils are now merged into one single, the Employment, Economic and Industry Council, to group together in one single council, everything that will cease to be executed. They say it's an expansive budget, when they don't even exhaust the expenditure limit approved by this Parliament, or the increase in the revenue from the financing system, because one part absorbs the financial burdens and another the tax cuts. You assume a decrease in the financial burden due to the decline in the type of interest. You have said this is the true cut in these budgets. But look, Counsellor, if we add chapters III, "Financial expenditures", and IX, "Financial liabilities", the expenses generated by debt – taste them or not – grow; they amount to EUR 1,598 million, an increase of 5.5%, thus higher than the growth of non-financial expenditure. And you're talking about solvency, you're talking about solvency when according to the Banco de España, Galicia's public debt is already rising – data from the second quarter – to 10.210 million euros. That is, since 2009 public debt has increased by 260%, Counselor. Point out, it increased with its government by 260 percent, by 6,287 million euros. But in addition, commitments linked to public-private collaboration already amount to 3,054 million euros. The total mortgage you're leaving your Government is now going to rise to more than 13,264 million euros, Counsellor. See, in these budgets alone, expenditure commitments linked to public-private collaboration of EUR 122.1 million are planned, twice as much as in 2015. In this, ultimately, it consists of the solvency of which his Government so strongly claims. Look, they're not social budgets, the intended social bet is denied if we analyze the distribution of expenditure. If we look at the organic distribution, while the increase in general administration spending is 5.6, the increase in the Education Council is 4.8 and in Healthcare of 4.4. In short, the spending of the councils that bear much of the social expenditure grows under the average. That's right, as health spending increases below average, the cost of public-private collaboration in the new Vigo hospital increases by 200%. See, but it's also the same thing if we examine the functional distribution of expenditure, while the set of functions increase by 5.3%, the spending of functions that absorb most of the social expenditure, such as production of social public goods, increases only 3.7%. Counsellor, the so-called expansive nature of this budget is not such, spending policy does not entail a commitment determined by essential public services, nor does it design, in addition, any strategy for economic recovery. You guys talk about betting for smart growth, how do you plan on doing it, Counselor? Can you explain to me, then, that you have the right to intervene too, if you like, to answer what parliamentary groups show? How do you plan on doing that? Attending the loss of investigators? What have we lost half of innovative companies since 2009? Running only 64.1% of the budget for the Welsh Plan of Research, Development and Technological Innovation, as they did in 2014? By reducing R & D spending by more than 1% of GDP, which was as it was located in 2008, to 0.85% today? How do you plan on doing that? Please clear it up. There is no strategy in these budgets to change the production model, or to develop the basic sectors of our economy, Mr. Counsellor. With trade in a limited situation – as Mrs. Consuelo Martínez has already stated – about 16,000 places closed and 44,000 jobs lost, you cut by 2% the programme of management, regulation and promotion of internal trade. You must think little of the 65% cut with regard to the 2009 budgets. With our field in a limited position, too, Counsellor, the budget for the rural environment also grows below average, and there is no action to deal with the critical situation of our dairy sector. In fact, they cut out fundamental programs to bet on a sustainable production model, based on the ground, or to encourage product transformation by providing added value. They also cut down fundamental programmes for the transfer of knowledge to the producer sector to the point where important training and research programmes are in danger of extinction. Look, speaking of the dairy situation, you appeal to the need for the sector to be organized, and you reduce 68.3% of the association promotion program. They argue that one problem we have is that our farms have a territorial base problem, which puts us in worse conditions of competition, and eliminates the unproductive land mobility programme, which was designed to provide more territorial base for our farms. Now, yes, they increase the forest production management program by more than 53%. We know, Counselor, what is the program of his Government and the party that supports him – from the People's Party – to our rural environment: Galicia, immense eucalyptal. That's the design they have for our field. In fisheries, budgets have no other purpose than to continue to maintain the suffocation policy for the producer sector, facilitating the abandonment and disposal of the fleet. You bet on aquaculture according to the interests of the large multinationals operating in that sector, while giving back to traditional fishing, which is the one that generates life and employment in the community. Nor is there any design in these budgets to solve the mobility problems of our country. There's not enough resources to regenerate our rivers, or to put in place a new policy of managing protected natural spaces, beginning with the regeneration of the fire-affected spaces last summer. With the Law of Land in transit, they do not have the resources of land management and urbanism policies. There is also no design to promote sustainable waste management, they prefer to give continuity to a model based on incineration, a failed model, more expensive for public objects, and that does not meet the requirements set out in the current legislation. In short, in these budgets there is no country project, Counsellor. The only country project they have is to continue condemning Galicia to maturation. Perhaps that's why these budgets represent one more step in the programmed liquidation of our culture and our language, to which his government so fond of us. With a cut in culture of 56% – nothing more and nothing less! – compared to the year 2009, and a cut in linguistic normalization of 69% – nothing less and nothing less! – compared to 2009. That's right, they're budgets with a marked electoralist smell, I have to tell you that. We see this in the tax proposals accompanying these budgets. We reiterate what we have already said in the debate to the entire Law of fiscal and administrative measures accompanying these budgets. Do you want to lower the taxes? They lower indirect taxes, which have risen them scandalously since you rule both in Galicia and in the state. They suppress the compensations established in all public services, eliminate the rise in the tax on hydrocarbons, which you approved in 2013, and accompany these discharges of higher tax pressure on those who have the most. But, as we have already said in the debate of that law, you prefer to make demagogy and electoralism with taxes, instead of addressing the tax reforms that the country needs. The baby-check is a clear example, they use the demographic creba as a pretext to introduce it. That's right, for a year! It must be that the elections have passed, the demographic fall in our country has ceased to exist, perhaps because they create a General Directorate for Demographic Dynamication, but you do not accompany it from the services or benefits that actually contribute to fighting against the demographic breakdown of this country. They have not yet learned that it is the function that creates the organ – it is the function that creates the organ – and not vice versa, Counsellor. To fight the demographic downturn, it would be better if they were really committed to creating stable and well-remunerated jobs. It would be better if they were to bet on measures to reconcile work and family life, and to allocate more resources to strengthen the public network of children's schools and to strengthen all basic services. Its fiscal measures therefore respond to calculated electoralism, trying to shift the illusion of economic recovery in the form of small bonuses, with a very reduced impact on people's income availability, rather than actually bet on their progress, redistribution and equity as the axes of the real tax reform that our country needs. We see it at the tax of successions and prayers. This tax already had multiple exemptions, so in practice it will be the highest income most benefited from the new exemptions. And we see it in the IRPF, the reduction in tax rates in the autonomic plot will only take effect as of 2017, Counselor. You announce this discount now because next year there are autonomous elections, but it will have to be the new government that results from those elections that pay the impact of this tax discount on the collection. Finally, Mr Counsellor, Members, ladies and gentlemen, there is no such thing as the money order you are asking for. They are continuous budgets for cutting policies, not to reactivate the economy, not to shield and strengthen public services and social policies. They don't ultimately serve to fight the inequalities that have increased completely and absolutely brutally since you rule. So it's not the budget for the economic cycle change. As we have already told you, Counselor, these are the budgets of a government that knows it's at the end of its political cycle and tries to save itself from desperate budgets with a marked electoral target. Budgets, which, in addition, are not credible, and for that reason we demand their return. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-23-DSPG130.u8	Thank you very much, Mr. Jorquera. Mr Beiras Torrado has the floor by the Parliamentary Group of the Gaga de Left Alternative.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-23-DSPG130.u9	Well, with the coming, the presidency, ladies and gentlemen. Counselor, I don't know if you know it's news that you have a very illustrious touch, except that you're not a fellow of yours, more than one hundred and fifty years ago or less, I don't put up very well; it was also called Valeriano. He was neither counsellor nor any of that, and he was not named like you, Bécquer was named, he was a plastic artist, brother of the famous poet Gustavo Adolfo. And it's not that the stage of Gustavo Adolfo Bécquer's life, in which he was progressing and even revolutionary when the Revolution, the Glorious Revolution, of 1868 and the First Federal Republic, the ephemeral, the fleeting, which lasted less than a year. Of course, in the Iberian countryside the federal approach came to be born in the 19th, it didn't have been born in the 20th; but, well, as history goes back here... For Valeriano Bécquer, with his brother, drew up and published in a magazine a series of cartoons with feet, the cartoons were from Valeriano and the feet were from Gustavo Adolfo. There was no complete collection in the National Library, and there will be about 20 years the director of the National Library -- she was a very educated woman -- she was a PSOE government -- because she found out, they offered her and bought her a full collection, and she edited it. He edited a splendid book with analytical essays, etc., about this collection, which were signed with the pseudonym SEM, and the splendid book was immediately removed from the bookshops. I have the fortune that a bookstore friend had provided me one before he was removed. The title of the book was or is: Bourbons in balls. It's a precedent of procas comic, absolutely, it seems to be in 1960, for example, instead of 1870, more or less. It's amazing, come on, the artists I know and know the book are always amazed how it could be done, and also how it could be edited. It is something like the plastic version of La corte de los miracles, of Don Ramón María del Valle-Inclán, but as a much more effective chart. There is the sword, Sparter, the priest that famous, also the famous nun; of course Isabel; of course the husband, indefinitely or not definitely of Isabel II. If I tell you this is precisely because you, apart from matching him in playing, are also a character of the current court of miracles, only on the periphery, on the appendicular networks of the current court of miracles. And that's all you understand today's intervention, absolutely spooky, absolutely spooky. You wouldn't have a price for a tombol at the Ascension Fair, and those who wrote it down too would not have a price either. Now, for a House of Deputies who pretend to be serious and wherever it is about presenting, defending and arguing budgets like those you have drawn up and they have the disqualification to introduce, it's frankly a ton of hair, but it's a clairvoyance to the citizens, no matter what we're here, to the citizens. You can't start lying with so much disgust and go on like this for as long as you've spoken. And you've studied Economics; I don't want to think that you've been licensed without knowing, because it would be an offense to college. But, of course, you don't, therefore, have the benefit of the doubt of being ignorant, you're simply a phassant; you're a phassant commanded. So, as it is, I would only tell you, for example, that if I got myself to read the thirty-so many pages that have the text of the explanatory statement of our refund amendment, it would take me a lot more time than it took the adjustment of your intervention, and, above all, we could have a debate. But it's not up to me to raise the debate, it's up to me to put back what you said. You don't have any way to back it up, it's not serious, you can't really argue with yourself, you can't! This isn't a tomb of the Ascension fair, nor are you a grower seller, not even in the Far West. You are the councillor of a Autonomous Community that constitutionally has the rank of the first rank of the autonomous communities, which we are called "historical nationalities." It's a shame, and I don't know very well anymore to tell you, but I'm going to tell you a few things. To begin with, I look at institutional stability, because I, for reasons of age, suffered forty years of absolute and perfect institutional stability, absolutely immobile; you can imagine what I mean. There was no more institutional stability in my life than the one from 1936 to 1978. If that's the golden rule of democracy, then, of course, we're in franchise without Franco; and if we're in franchise without Franco, I don't know what we've done in some way we've been fighting for years. Here's a gentleman who also fought; he's younger than me; but he was already there on the left, Mr. Méndez Romeo, in the 1970s; I think the others are younger and the younger ones and they haven't had a chance for this. [[Pause.]] You say they now take measures that they could not take before, even if they always wanted to take them. Call me a trick! They've always wanted to adopt them? You who are at the service of those non-democratic powers, not elected by anyone, absolutely oligarchic and despotic that govern the European Union today, and that use them to you as monks. They put them in front of the citizens, so they take the citizens' beatings, so they have to deal with the mobilizations, in self-defense, and that they are the ones who made them this corset, that iron mask – and I don't know if you have a lamp beard, but if you raise your beard with an iron mask, it will drown. And that's what's happening with the country's economy: it grows its beard and drowns, as in the famous novel of a French romantic cycle. Look, I'm going to read one thing to you, because I think it's more interesting to do these things than start to argue that if GDP goes up and down, GDP goes up and down. Because, of course, you don't say it, but your president sure doesn't distinguish the domestic product from the national product. You will probably think that the domestic product is the product of the Ministry of the Interior and the national product is that of the National Police. Therefore, the national product, which is the National Police, is inferior and is included in the domestic product, which is the Ministry of the Interior. I imagine it's something like that, because if you don't understand anything. You'll understand that in this situation I'll be smart too, but with a certain literary quality, of course, not with figures of 0.3, 0.2, 1.2, 1.8 or 0.25. Divine words, of course, another quote from Valle-Inclán. That tragedy in which Mari Gaila at the end is saved from popular mutiny because they say some divine words; in Latin then, now you eat them in Spanish. You guys, by the way, always wanted to take action, but they never could. Can you explain...? And if you want us to have coffee in the cafeteria and explain it in private, so you don't have to do it in front of the public and be ridiculous in the sense that you explain it to me, you confess, what you can't confess from this rostrum. Proccyclical policies. The great economists, the great talents of the world economy, the most prestigious, Nobel prizes, from Paul Krugman to Stiglitz, who was – as you know – director of the World Bank, we no longer call James Galbraith, etc., etc., you know – because it is not ignorant – that to all economists who "assorate" – between quotes – the political powers that are doing these strikes since 2008 onwards are called "zombis economists" and define us: they are zombie economists because they are not resigned to assume they are dead. They're like Caribbean zombies. And with that because there is absolutely no argument on the basis of the most elementary macroeconomic theory that can defend that one can come out of a great depression by applying austerity measures, monetary policies, procyclicals, which aggravate the cycle. You say, we didn't have enough income. Shrimps! If you make policies that systematically depress, how are you going to earn two hundred thousand peaks of unemployed people? How are you going to have income with medium-sized companies that are closing every day, with businesses in the cities that put "get out," " close"? How are you going to have income from the rate of population living under the sole poverty of poverty? How are you going to have income with the extermination of the peasantry? How are you going to gain income from the destruction of the most industrial complex that was the steel lung – a century! – of the industrial development of this late 19th century country? You've been charged! And if it wasn't for you, it was your masters, and you're complicit in being simple foot-kids willing to kiss them, and from there on out everything you need instead of defending the citizens. It's outrageous! There's no basis, explain it to me or explain it to Abel Losada, explain it, or explain it to Mr. Arias Veira, who also knew it and does it as if he didn't, that this is more serious. The farce, the tragic farce that is developing in this House systematically. You are not ignorant, who have no such excuse, there are that if –I can also be ignorant in many things – but you have no excuse that you don't know. That's right, they're fools in the very sense of the word. The ignorant who pontifies as if he knew those things. The debt. Can you explain to me how from the history of fiscal consolidation, austerity policies to end the problem of debt, to consolidate taxation, to be able to balance budgets without having to resort to more cuts and cents, to more chauffeurs, to the weakest, to more beheadings? Since then, the debt has only accumulated. Can you deny me that the current debt of the Spanish State is unspent? Let's deny it. Well, you deny it to the great financial economic experts all over the world. But you don't care. Debt, you demanded the Greeks to pay, they had to pay, you have to pay the debts. Mr. Montoro or De Guindos, I don't look very well at his faces, because I see little TV: you have to pay! I will read one thing to you in Spanish – without any precedent –: "On August 24, 1953, twenty-one countries signed in London an international treaty by which German debt was reduced" – the debt dropped from Nazi Germany – "in 50%, from $23 billion to $11.5 billion. The German Federal Republic was thus saved from bankruptcy. The other 50% should have been paid after a hypothetical reunification." It resulted in unification – we all know – but "Kohl refused to pay it in 1990 and was forgiven. Once again Germany was saved from bankruptcy." What is it, that the Germans are of the upper air race and you and we are all untermenschen, subhumans? They have historically the right to owe... in addition to the fact that for a Nazi state, racist, xenophobic, genocide, responsible for 70 million deaths that occurred in the World War, because the responsibility was the Nazis, of course, who created that conflict. They were entitled to 50 percent swept in 50. And then, when they reunite, they shoved DDR, absorb it -- they don't reunite, they turn it into an internal colony, they dismantle it, they privatize everything, etc., etc., they smell of it, they don't pay for it, and here nothing happens. Now, Greece has to pay, and we have to pay, and you have to pay. And that's what you call "solvency"? It's simply called stupidity or treason to citizens, one of two: or stupidity or treason to the sovereign people. And let's not talk about what would be the difference for public finances simply with Mr. Asnar – I'm from the Low Rhine, half, and half, and I don't mean the cattle that is called about the same, or pronounced to the Chinese "Asnal" – had not settled at the end of the 1990s all the public property of the state, of the profitable public enterprises, and there they are; only sold at the price of balance to friends, they've already begun. If today that profitable public sector were there, you could get the calculation of how much would be the income that would be earned by public companies, the Spanish State making them Spanish. Therefore, you as never had political capacity to achieve an economic agreement, because you always thought that the economic concert was ruining us here, although we demonstrated between 1997 and 2000 that Galicia could be perfectly self-sufficient, simply that the homes of passive subjects were modified and that they were not all concentrated in Madrid or Barcelona and a couple of other places – well, now in tax havens, of course, still further, it is more difficult – that the large consortia that have all their economic reality here in productive space, in trade space had their tax domicile in Galicia. Well, you who depend on those state incomes are put at the church door, like in times of hunger, with the meadow, or with the bowl to see if Dad State lets them loose anything else. And sometimes Dad State does them a favor, and he says, man! You've done very well, you've gone beyond what you're asked, far beyond what you're asked, you've applied that of austerity far beyond what you're asked. You were pioneers, you threw yourself into that before the state was launched, because the PP still didn't rule. Well, with income from a public sector as it is due today, it would change. And after all this it turns out that you say: we couldn't do it until now. Well, what we couldn't also depend on, depends, Mr. Counsellor – in Italian it says "advise" – and we can be here polyglots, there's not because knowing only English, it's okay! Totally learn English to understand the gringos well without having to speak our language, will you tell me? If it were to read Shakespeare or maybe Joyce, but with English they could learn here Joyce wouldn't understand anything. And one thing: it's not with those, because it's one of the falsacs that you mount with these budgets and it's one of the traps you vote for. You'll see, on the one hand, you're saying this year: we can increase non-financial expenditure, we can even increase computable expenditure, without violating the cost rule. Well, they don't break the cost rule because you're making a few traps. First, the traps that become manifest simply by looking at box 39, which is on page 127 – I think I read well, the lenses are not very good for me, I have to review my graduation from the view, at least from the sight with glasses, from the normal view to see other things perhaps not. Yes, computable expenditure. But there's something very funny. In his appearance I said that you could play with the roof of spending, sometimes they played and others did not want, and there they put faces that Mr. Beers what happens is that he's a little careless; it's not that he doesn't know, but he's confusing the roof of spending with the rule of spending, of course. No, no, let's see: if the spending rule states that the increase in computable expenditure cannot overshadow the increase in GDP, well, it turns out that you now increase the computable expenditure by 0.62% by 2016, when the forecast GDP is 1.8%. But in 2015, GDP was 1.20% of the limit, you increased to 0.48%. Now you can explain it to me, and, I know, it's going to come out: that income, I don't know that... and then I send it back to what I've already said, and don't come to me with lips: if I had a margin of 1.20, why did it just increase by 0.48%? Of course! And if this year has a margin of 1.8 and they really want to make the expansion budgets, why do they just increase the computable expenditure to 0.62%, let alone when they have that gift, that gallon of 363.197 (in thousands), therefore 363 million and peak, of extra income given by the State Attorney by liquidation of the 2013-2014 exercise? Apart from that, you're very funny, because rigor in the way that public administration often makes the accounts and calculations is absolutely to explain it in a class of first-class statistics. Because you, for example, for liquidation, to calculate the margin they have for computable spending, because you compare the computable expenditure for an exercise, 2015, estimated, in the estimate of the netting of the budget, with the computable expenditure in the budget settled in 2014, and all this not, because according to how you estimate the liquidation of the higher reference point, which is 2015, when it is greater than 2014 is liquidated, because there you can make financial piudats, balance, wirerism, juggling games, because that's what you know, uh!, they learned a lot about the system of corruption. All the corrupt jugglers with their bills do it perfectly, like Chicago gangsters and El godfather mafia did. And then they had lawyers who, in addition, looked for them and said that everything was wonderful and that they were complying with the law, and that the bad were the different politicians, who were corrupt. Do you see what it's like to read your budgets? Ah!, and recovery, bravo! These budgets are made – I'm not going to repeat what they already said to Chelo Martínez and what comrade Jorkera said, because it's repeating things, renouncing evidence, and we have to do it, but I'm not going to be repetitive – but these are the budgets for what comes behind it. Like the story of the downside of the IRPF. There was a gentleman there who said, when I said that this could not be applied on the first of January, that it could only apply the discount – if not – of the retentions to the IRPF account, and that, therefore, the discount would actually be in the collection that was done when the IRPF, therefore, the following year, and therefore would touch whoever was after, that it would not be you, of course. Don't I know if anyone will see what better they will do to you? That's never known. I don't put my hand on the fire, but, of course, you won't be. Well, after all that, he said that he would not, that he would, because he would have to explain it to a professor named Alain Cuenca, who was general director of Finance Coordination with Local Authorities and Autonomous Communities, between 2005-2008, first, and after 2008-2011, in the Ministry of Economics and Business, and who actively said that "In short, with the current configuration it is not possible for autonomous communities of common regime to be able to announce a reduction in the IRPF tariff of their community and that contributors immediately appreciate it through lower retentions. The contributors [...] later, when they present their self-liquidation, in year n+1 and the collection effects will be withdrawn one more year." And he says, "When it comes to raising the record, the disincentive delay; when it comes to a reduction, the delay can be a positive incentive to the extent that the loss of the collection takes place over time, while his announcement provides election receipts." This is written in a serious essay, and it is not said by this Member. Do you want more? Well, as for that recovery and horizons, they also play the same. Because that's why this recovery of what you're talking about is going wind in stern because you're going to see it, too. I'm just going to read you an article this same month by Michael Roberts, who is a well-known British economist who worked thirty years in London City as an economic analyst, etc., and it's called the next recession. I'll read you the label. Then, if there's time – because I'm a minute away, and I don't want to abuse the president's lady... well, to abuse as to her time, I mean; now is the president, less I'm still going to abuse. [[Laughter]] Another one from Paul Mason, also this month. There's a laugh out there! [[Murmurs.]] It's a tremendous thing, it seems the exercise of humor in this House is forbidden, the exercise of humor is forbidden, yes. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] If you read... If they read Los Bourbones in the ball, they'll... they'll shoot him after they die.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-23-DSPG130.u10	Read that.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-23-DSPG130.u11	Leo, yes sir. Paul Mason, an economic editor, of Channel 4 news; but above all the book Poscapitalism – translated – the guide for our future. Published in [...] 2015. Apocalypse now, have you started the next giant financial crack yet? And finally George Monbiot, also very recently, which is November 3, this month. He is one of the most consistent, rigorous and respected British environmental journalists, author of very widespread, such as The age of consent: the manifesto for a new world order and Captive state: the corporate take over Britain. It's hardly pronounced in English because I've got him very angry. "The accompanying financial storm is nothing more than the effect of untied business power." Well, of course, this thing is not going...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-23-DSPG130.u12	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-23-DSPG130.u13	...take place before December 20th. So, I insist, you've made some budgets for, first, to withdraw from the citizens, to withdraw from any element of rationality and seriousness of economic and financial science, and of course for those who come behind you. That'll be an inheritance, yours. But whoever comes behind will be able precisely to use intelligence, use engagement with the citizens and not with the big financials, nor with the corruption system, to pull the car out of this country and put it on foot. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-23-DSPG130.u14	Thank you, Mr. Beers. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Méndez Romeo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-23-DSPG130.u15	Mr. President. You're right, Mr. Beers, as many times as you do. It's much more interesting, to understand the time you want to tell us Valle-Inclán, to read Iberian Wheel than to attend the speeches of the corrupt dictatorship of Primo de Rivera, no doubt. And it's also much more fun, to understand that time, to see, to contemplate and read the work of Bécquer's brothers on the Bourbons, who, besides being obviously procass, lubricating, naked, etc., is, above all, discarnated, a decarnated portrait of that end of Decimonic Spain. Counselor, it's easier to understand that reality, sometimes seeing an artist who understands Greek reality by listening to his speech today in this House. Because, Counselor, you started your parliament saying nothing less than the recovery budgets. I ask you what, maybe the active population?, maybe the productive investment? These are the budgets – you said – of growth. But tell the country, not this House, tell it what growth?, what increase in wages?, the increase in employment?, the increase in pensions? Those were his first words, and evidently gave the tone of what came next. Because if there were any doubts, Counselor, today they were dissipated: we opened the electoral campaign, the German Government, from today until the next autonomous elections, declared itself in the electoral campaign. And the draft budget is the evidence, the burden of proof of what I just said. Because unlike previous government budgets, today we actually have a budget that presents an expansive expenditure box, with more or less remarkable increases in some expenditure items. But it is a budget that does not present any new guideline, which does not present any initiative to get out of the economic stagnation in which the country is in, nor does it announce any new policy sufficiently endowed as to recover the social rights so severely damaged by you over these six years. The greatest expenditure, Counsellor, does not correspond to strategic actions, nor does it correspond to programmes that tackle decisively the problems that both on the street and in this Parliament are constantly present. According to his style, he does not allow reality to alter the beneficial vision that they display here and beg in all the rostrums. For you Galicia goes well, the economy goes well; agriculture, fishing, youth, employment, health, everything improves, every year more. Our indicators are envy of themselves and strangers. That's your usual speech. Counsellor, that idyllic reality does not share it out there, nor do the citizens, who protest in greater numbers in different sectors, ever stronger than ever, neither the analysts in this country, nor the institutions outside the country that have the mission to follow the Greek public accounts. His optimistic vision is not collected in any report by the European Union or the Spanish Government. Will those institutions or persons – I ask you, Counselor – be unable to see the light emanating from Galicia, to understand the message of truth that you pray day by day? I wonder who's going to be wrong, the Greek Government in that irreflexive optimism or the other bodies and institutions that see us more clearly? Today Mr. President didn't want to be here in defense of his budgets. As always, he avoided political debate. Mr. Feijóo is for the friendly press rounds, where there are no conflicting questions. Or to give opinions on all those issues where we have no competition. Never, Mr. Feijóo, to defend his policy, never to face him when he is asked to appear in Parliament. You don't want to talk about budgets, employment, social problems, sectoral problems or people's living conditions. The president talks in plasma, it's the latest fashion. He talks in plasma, he talks in newspapers, or he talks in party TV that we pay for everyone's taxes. But he doesn't speak where he should, in Parliament. And it won't be because we didn't ask for it! Six years, three hundred weeks, constantly demanding that he appear in the House – with the support of the other parliamentary groups – and inveterably six years, three hundred weeks, refusing to appear, within the framework of democratic rules, of course, but refusing to give explanations. Maybe it's a way to assume that your politics is simply indefensible. But the truth is that Galicia is today worse than in 2009, much worse, for more citizens; they are young, old, workers, unemployed, backward is the norm. Far from fighting the crisis, they took advantage of it to ruin the welfare state, to destroy decades of social and labor conquests, to implement the law of the jungle at work, to ruin the middle classes and to create the greatest inequality in modern history. And also to destroy the hopes of the new generations, for that he served the parliamentary knee of the absolute majority, to close his eyes to reality, and his ears to protests; and to dogmatically apply his criteria. It must be said clearly, Mr Feijó: there will be no chance of recovery as long as you remain president, because at this point it is strength to acknowledge that you are part of the problem. We are in the worst situation in the country in the last thirty years, and as long as you continue in your unreal world, listening exclusively to bullies or subordinates, or cultivating your vanity in the false mirror of the television gaga, this country cannot take off. Mr. Feijóo, who is currently the biggest problem in the Greek economy, advocates a labour reform that has only served to increase the benefits of some large businesses while lowering the wages of most workers, destroying stable employment and creating an enormous labor reserve of poor workers, with wages below the subsistence level and garbage contracts. That's why, Mr President, you're the problem, because while you did this, you gave up innovation, you despised university and training, and you damaged the competitiveness and added value of production. You, like Rajoy, copied the worst from the emerging countries: wage devaluation, ridiculous contracts; and instead, you did not copy those measures that distinguish some of these emerging countries, such as the impulse of human capital and the strategic bet on education, science and university. You, like Mr. Rajoy, are a danger to the economy, because they increased tax pressure on measured and low incomes and relieved the high incomes, in addition to tax amnesty to the Bárcenes, Rats, etc. By the way, by talking about taxation – which Mr. Counsellor also said –, listen, in the most recent comparative studies, it turns out that taxation in Galicia is higher than the average of the state for all people who earn less than 80,000 euros, and is lower for those who earn more than 80,000 euros. But how do they get it, I wonder? I have to tell you that there are seven autonomous communities in the same fiscal autonomy margin as Galicia has more progressive tax systems. You favor the highest income and prejudice the lowest income, that's the summary of your tax changes. Look, Counselor, only since the sovereignty of this government used to not give explanations can you understand today's debate. Because the data you present do not correspond to the severity of the problems, the overhaul of the situation and the generalized deterioration of the quality of life and employment, nor even the external opinion of Galicia. You're not going to find anywhere a definition of Galicia as a country of the future, and many who draw a continuous decline scenario. You spoke of the Abanca report. This report by Abanca, the latest report by the Greek economy, says that for Galicia to fall by 10% of unemployment, it will have to rise to GDP 16 points, 16 points! I remind you last year was half a point. Budgets are an electoral act, because they are not meant to recover the lost land or to place us on the path of balanced growth or to overcome the obstacles that exist in this structural character or in the search for equal opportunities. And that's why they deserve our repulsiveness, reflected in the amendment of totality, in the cross-sectional amendments and in the amendments to the state of expenditure. There's no indication in this budget of a change in the production model; all that you talk about is the virtual industry, of Industry 4.0, but, let's be a little serious, Counsellor, you won't recover the social cohesion you've lost with the cuts. These budgets ignore unemployed people, who have less and less coverage, despise poor workers and unemployed people without subsidies, ignore researchers, ignore cultural workers, innovative entrepreneurs, civil servants, self-employed, pensioners or single-parent families, which are essentially young. The IMF's latest report, from the International Monetary Fund, alerts to the need for a change of course in the Spanish economy with changes of priorities that prevent the unemployment rate from being scandalously high for many years, as they warn of the high level of indebtedness that grows in the public sector without pause. I remind you of the indebtedness data, Counsellor: debt from the Spanish state, 100 percent of GDP, with you in four years it has risen 31 points; Galician debt 18.5% of GDP, with you in six years it has risen ten points. This is the data, Counselor. Another report by a United Nations agency explains that in Spain it's more complicated to do business than in Macedonia or Portugal. And that, within Spain, Galicia presents greater obstacles than any other autonomous community in facilities, opening procedures, building permits, connection of services... What about the European Union report on regional competitiveness, which we have already discussed here, which points to the relative backwardness of Galicia in recent years? I remind you, Counsellor, position 193, between 262 European regions. With very bad data in areas such as higher education, innovation, information society or high value added business. The macroeconomic framework that presides over the Budget Project that you commented this morning is only shared by your party. Neither the European Union nor the IMF nor the OECD – to name external bodies – support public accounts. Furthermore, Brussels has just demanded an additional cut of EUR 9 billion in the Spanish State accounts to meet the deficit targets, tacitly accepting that the State budgets that have just been approved do not reflect reality and that they are chaired by the forthcoming elections. And so, while you're announcing lower tax reductions in exchange for continuing to deteriorate public services, you keep the deficit very high and the public debt in historical peaks. In other words, the nominal growth of the economy in Galicia is driven by consumption, not by external demand, and can barely reduce the unemployment rate that is at 20%. I remind you that in the past crises in Spain the recovery of employment has been very slow, at the rate of approximately 1% a year, how many years do we expect from these scandalous unemployment rates, Counsellor? The Brussels analysis identifies the two recent growth engines: the drop in oil prices – obviously very remarkable – and the purchase of assets by the European Central Bank, which led to the devaluation of the euro and the improvement of financing conditions. They are, of course, measures beyond the will of the Government. I will not extend to the external threats on which we also lack influence, but I would remind you of very recent statements by the European Commissioner for Economic Affairs, who spoke of Spain as the problems of insufficient investment and the economic structures that rob employment, in addition to the very high level of public debt. You've been in Galicia for 250 percent these years. Counsellor, can you tell the House what you did in six years to solve these problems reported in the international reports that I have just quoted and that they are well known? Because, given the indifference of the president of the Union to the real economy, is there any initiative in some of the offices of the Union to address these problems? Any other initiative than the unceasing production of rules so weak and so ill-made that they are immediately modified and so irrelevant as for no one to remember them? Counsellor, the reports are extremely harsh and the consequences of these rules have still not been appreciated by anyone. To talk about new budgets, Counselor, is also to talk about how the salaries are being waged in Galicia. Last document of the Tax Agency on the labour market, in 2014, Galicia: 177,000 people with part-time jobs or weeks, who entered less than 2,000 euros a year. I will repeat, Counsellor, that you have entered less than 2,000 euros a year for work. Put that total income, put it in relation to the wages of some of the people who appear in the budget document – there is no need to quote them – put it in relation to what we're talking about. But apart from that, there are 123,000 people who don't reach 7,000 euros a year, i.e. they earn less than 600 euros a month. And that's what you call recovery? So we have 300,000 people with wages that don't allow them to get out of poverty, we're talking about nine hundred and peak employees in Galicia. And we still have another 130,000 under 1,000 euros per month; that is, half of the people who work in Galicia – including all categories of precariousness, temporality, etc. – have half incomes that are below 1,000 euros per month. And I repeat the question, Counsellor, is there any measure in these budgets that will change that situation? You are drawing a deeply dual society, with a gap that will not be overcome if you continue with these policies: between a mass of people condemned to live in precariousness, and that at the very most you can enjoy an aid state, which is what you are drawing in these budgets, and a group of people who can have stable employment and wages more or less decent. That's the reality, Counselor, to this day. You represent unemployment, I'm the Government with the worst data in Galician history. That's why I'm not surprised the president wants to run away as soon as possible, because the failure of his policy is causing death because of the extinction of Greek society. Yes, Mr. Feijóo, the death by extinction of the Greek society. Look, more recent data, cohort of French citizens aged 20 to 39, citizens who are at the age of procreation, etc. That cohort that represents the future with you is literally collapsing, Mr. President. Today, demographic experts believe that the situation is irreversible, that there is no longer any measure possible to reverse that, and because the decline in fertility has added to the selective emigration, precisely, of new and qualified people. But it's just that the unemployment figures are 250,000 people stopped today, 90,000 more than in 2009. And something worse, because while you ruled in Galicia, in Spain we lost twice as much jobs as the state average as a percentage. While unemployment has also increased twice as a percentage, we have less active population and less busy population, less contributors to Social Security. By the way, social security that you are risking for the first time, liquidating the Social Security Reserve Fund. And besides they're putting it at risk because, precisely, as a result of that wage devaluation, the contribution income is falling alarmingly. You said the job reform would end with precariousness. It was exactly the opposite, the new contracts are almost always precarious – average duration 54 days –, the fourth part of these contracts last less than a week, half of the young people who work are in precarious condition. Counsellor, is there any answer to these problems in your documentation? In 90,000 homes live only unemployed, 60 percent of the unemployed do not receive unemployment, more than half are chronic long-term and have lost benefits. This is real Galicia, it's far from that idyllic portrait you drew here. But all of this is no accident, because we arrived here after six budgets of the People's Government of Galicia, after the reform of regressive labour, after the reduction of rights and social benefits until we reach this level of maximum inequality in history. There's no news, and there's also a very worrying fact in the last report by Fatenda: Galicia was one of the least-reaching communities last year. Counsellor, if there is no real economic recovery, it is not possible to create jobs; if there is no increase in income, it is not possible to maintain the level of well-being. You've chosen from the first day to lower your expenses by refusing to increase your income, now, in an election year, they make a shy bet for the recovery of your expenses. I don't want to turn this debate into a sterile exchange of figures – they're all in the submitted documentation – but some is necessary to show how brutal the fall has been on the main budget lines. Look, compared to the year 2009 – year 2016 on 2009 –: social policy, decreases 15%; health, 7%; education, 11%; employment, 50%. But what's wrong with your employment policies? Mr. Feijóo, he's been down half since 2009, while unemployment is rising down any action... of course, you've said it here once, that you don't believe in policies against unemployment, and that's how we are. No, neither in socialists nor in others, because for now all there is is evidence that unemployment is out of control with you. All there is is is evidence that with your Government we have the worst data in Galician history. And all there is is is evidence that you literally bring it to you without care. [[Applause]] But besides looking at the productive sectors, the rural environment is down by 25%; fishing by 53%; support measures for companies are down by 47%. But there are more: trade, 63%; tourism, 44%; R+D, 9%; culture, 56%. Well, other interesting headings: housing, lowers by 76%; environment, by 60%; infrastructure, by 54%; or spending on investments by 47%. That is, lower social spending, lower productive spending and lower investment in all sections of the state of well-being. Doesn't it grow anything? Someone'll say. Obviously, the operating expenses of the Administration itself are increased, 6%, which shows, in addition, the falsity of the speech of austerity. You have failed in economic policy, failed in social policy, and you are a terrible administrator. His government was functioning little and it was working badly, in the opposition they were protesting against the level of public debt, they were 4,000 million, they were raised to 10,000 million, plus 1,500 of Vigo's hospital. Last year's budget execution in Galicia was of the worst in Spain, five points less than the average, simply comparing that average to the German GDP would be equal to the Spanish average. We've been with a minimum investment for six years, and it's not running, and the average of the last few years indicates that 40% of the investments don't go from paper. They paralyze all kinds of works on roads, etc. Summaries in one data, bids dropped by 93%. It's good that now you have to split the board to make two, and each one will do less than half of what he did before. His commitments were wet paper, it was in the previous government the MOVE Plan and it was then the Wind Plan. Where there was an expanding sector, which was the wind, they liquidated in connivance, of course, with the Rajoy Government. And at the same time they raised the price of light to stratospheric levels. Counsellor, you should review your speech, you're the third Handicraft Counsellor with the same president, and therefore you're repeating arguments that reality has been denying over and over again. All you don't change is the ideological fixation against the state of well-being, against the universalization of health and education, equal opportunities, the struggle against poverty. You took advantage of rising unemployment to lower the protection of the unemployed and increase poverty. In these years, Counsellor, the popular Government of Galicia has withdrawn 1,047 million euros from employment policies. I mean, his policy is summed up in unprotecting unemployed people and not forming those who are busy. We spend less on dependence than most communities, and we have a bigger waiting list, with 27,000 people. Counselor, people are dying before they get benefits, a thousand people nothing less this year. In teaching we have twice as many early school dropouts as in most advanced countries and the triple dropouts in the OECD, which naturally affects students from the most disadvantaged social classes; of course, you imagine that you understand that natural segregation is taking place. What about scholarships, the best indicator of equal opportunities in education. With Government Zapatero grew by 76%, with Government Rajoy dropped by 21%, and Galician board scholarships dropped by 23% and half were not executed. Counselor, I just gave you the housing figures. They liquidated the social housing policy in Galicia, and at the same time 12,000 Greek families were defeated by renting. They didn't start any new social housing construction program or develop the national housing plan. Counsellor, we understand that it is essential to change the country's economic policy, and the first step must be to recognize the problems that we must address. This budget does not do so, it is a continuous budget of the previous ones, and therefore it will at best have a null effect and in other cases it will be as negative as it was in the past. We need a budget that respects the people who charge payrolls, the employees, who have been massacred by you fiscally as well as with taxes and fees and also with cuts from the welfare state and with multiple payrolls. Hemerothecs are full of statements from the Board and promises of investments, opportunities, job creation, and published economic data dismiss us. Last year the foreign investment in Galicia dropped by 77%, the tenth third position of the state, a child and symbolic 0.3%. But at the same time, in the whole of Spain, it grew to 10%. It seems that no one considers us land of opportunity, beyond his propaganda. Mr. President-in-Office of the Council, Mr. Rajoy is responsible for the climate of rupture in Spain. I don't mean just the lack of capacity, the lack of initiative to prevent the Catalan crisis from reaching its destination, which probably much more could be done. Yes, yes, I mean, in addition to the social crisis, the social divide that is opening up in Spain and Galicia between those who have and those who do not have, among those who are very good at the crisis and those who go very badly, who are the majority, among those who are entering into a situation of poverty and permanent dependence on public aid, situations that, as we know by other countries, are rarely reversible and which means, unfortunately, for many people, a tear that will spread for a long time. We believe that another budget is possible. We will be detailing the proposals this afternoon, detailing the proposals that are going through the obviously well-known recipes: stimulating investment, maintaining social spending and strengthening cohesion measures. We know that our amendments are expected to have as little success as they have in the previous six years, but we also know, as I think many citizens understand, that the only way to change the country's economic policy and get out of this situation of maturation, this situation at the end of the modern stage of a country, passes precisely by the change of President of the Union and, of course, by the change of Government in Spain and more in Galicia. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-23-DSPG130.u16	Thank you, Mr. Méndez Romeo. Go back now to the councillor of Fairy to answer. [[Murmurs.]] Thirty seconds. Intervention by the Consecutor of Fairy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-23-DSPG130.u17	Good morning to all, and thank you, Mr. President. To thank the different interventions, with different shades and very different each and every one of them, but the formulation, when it's to trigger the dialectic dynamics of confrontation, I think it's perfectly legitimate what each of you exposed in this paragraph, right? I've been systematizing all and every one of the things that I understand have been transmitting and I'll try to give them because in a way I'm perhaps too much in line with the answer to each and every one of them, and I'm going ahead of time that questions of a numerical precision that you often formulated – I'm telling you – are not in my head at first all and each of the things that were told to me, but I'm still part of them; so I'm going to look for the islands slowly confronting me. There was an initial approach when they questioned each and every one of you, the four groups also talked about the macro painting and even allowed some scaffolding when they were not only cautious but of the ultra-prudent. All the institutes that are dedicated to the topic of prospectivity are telling us that our estimates are perfectly in the bottom line; therefore, prudent or so prudent in terms of 2015, 2%. You remember how I told you in my first speech when a year ago we celebrated a debate like this, identical to this, when they were also calling for irresoluble, a word that has been repeated by many of you at this time. So, as it shows, since the utmost prudence, 2% right now, as our indicator tells us in advance, is guaranteed and will also be tested with the evolution of the third quarter right now. I understand even that when some of the speakers, the speakers involved in this case, because, the tenth below, the tenth above, they were allowed to determine also graces, telling them that a tenth up, a tenth down, for us, means what is in our budget, already the seat's own, about 56 million euros, which, as you will understand, gives for a lot, gives for a lot 56 million euros; I wouldn't be able to lock myself up or even a little smile. By 2016 the 2.5 again enters a more than correct dynamic. I'll explain. We are talking about that as early as 15th, in 16th, our difference with the central countries and the euro area as a whole is a confluence, i.e. not just looking at the rest of Spain – the first level of reasoning, very simple – but where we are in the European Union. What you're telling us is that our confluence is right about what is happening in the euro area. Therefore, that half-point differential, about 0.6, which we're going to have in 2015 will even be increased to 2016. So, and at the same time, our confluence, which here has so much criticised about the average march of the Spanish economy, praise be God!, praise be God!, if that means that we are growing above 2%, if that means that for the first time we are creating net employment, almost 17-18,000 jobs in full time in this 2015 and the same data, about 18,000, guaranteed for what we know today by 2016. So we're talking about over 36,000 people, breaking a dynamic. Does that mean we're happy with the evolution of the market? Somehow. When my first intervention of excessively triumphalist was called, if there's something I've been careful too much was to think that the right evolution from our perspective is having unemployment and above all job creation in some way one can deduce that we're happy with that data, in some way, but one thing is that we're not in agreement with a rate of unemployment that we currently have at 17,66 and a very different one is to deny the evolution that is taking place, and a very different one is to deny the difference with the average size that so much the level of unemployment we have with the Spanish economy. So there's more than considerable economic evolution perfectly settled. I understand that, of course, when it comes to certain budgets when they were presented for the 15 they said that it was the first that actually grew up, they were the first that grew, very incipiently, forty and a little million euros. And right now we're talking about our budget going to grow by 300 and 60 million euros in non-financial spending. So the order of magnitude is significantly different from what was exposed by someone of you. But it's not so much, it's not so much, even as it was predictable in evolution more than certain of what is happening right now, and as a trend that is expected in confluence for 2016, and job creation – I repeat again – the creation of employment that leads to mate, that this is really important, important at this time, so that then composition is the most appropriate one, and that's what I'm going to refer to in a few moments. It's also very important when. What do you think of us? It is not true what one of the spokespersons has pointed out, that it is not true in absolute terms, I mean, as always with all my respect, when certain national and international bodies or entities look at our economy. I've already made some references, and that's very important, because it also gives us what you think of us from other parts, and it's not that you see everything positive, but I pointed out very clearly that, when certain Spanish bodies, such as IDEF, independent authority, what stands out from Galicia is their compliance with the deficit and also the subject of income, here you just criticized. It seems to me that it is clear enough that on the subject of income we are of the best communities we plan in the right way, and so it is being corroborated all these years and this year also, 2015, with the evolution of recognized and liquidated rights and also in terms of collection. As we were also talking about FEDEA, also an association that little has to do with the People's Party particularly – as it must be, there must be everything, it must be polyphonic. And it also highlights our income and also highlights our approach to the deficit year after year, which is the agreement among all communities in the Economic and Fiscal Policy Council. As Standard & Poor's, when he tells us that we get our rating, and it turns out that objectively our rating had to be even higher than the average sovereign state, but there it is impossible for a regime community like ours. Let's agree. These are all issues that are moving in principle that the Galician economy may have some difficulties, but it has more than certain assurances in certain issues, because for many years that rigour we have been applying in public accounts has moved to solvency, and this is how we are seen by even the European Union when it pointed out this last week what was the issue of payments. Payments that are curious that in all the interventions that you have made today we don't know how to value the issue of payments, because it means that everything we are able to assume not only in current expenditure but also in capital expenditure, the important thing is to pay on time, and in those twenty-one days we have, without ever reaching the top of the thirty, always being within the first three or four communities that have the best ratio. Electoral budgets. Electoral budgets were a word that has been repeated by each and every one of you. I understand that I didn't know how to focus on this subject, but truly you yourselves have just highlighted it in your interventions. I, who am a bit of a need in Parliament, of what I do realize is that every one of the messages that you have been transferring is that I was in the electoral key, perfectly electoral, and little, as I said a little Umbrella: to talk about my book, very little at all, very little at all. [[Applause]] Electoral budgets. I've explained it once before, but I repeat it again. Maybe it's very predictable. In 2012 there were also elections and curiously our budget didn't go up, down, and the result was what it was. [[Murmurs.]] And at this point in time, the result is that income increases, true income actually increases by advance account, by settlement, by 2%, by the Continence Fund, by the Suficiency Fund. Yeah, but what do you want? What do we hide the revenues, hide them? No, they're there, and those incomes, in an orderly way, are used to develop the policies that this government has always wanted to develop, and sometimes it's narrowed down. Yeah, that's our situation today. So we're not going to stop budgeting the income that's true. So the only electoralism in the budget is those 8 million, as one of you has pointed out, who are to face the elections. That is a certain fact: there will be autonomous elections in the next exercise; obviously, therefore, we are in the electoral year. Employment. We talk to you about employment, with different amounts. The EPA data. We may agree or disagree, but the third quarter EPA data that I say is a paradigmatic change that is taking place in job creation. Does that mean that we are convinced and completely satisfied with the composition between indefinite and undefined work? In no way, but really, what we're talking about is 54,100 less people, a sixth consecutive trimester that improves our unemployment. Or on registered unemployment, where we have already 60,000 unemployed less, that's a great one. In no way, in no way can one say, but they don't deny the biggest, they don't deny that there is a job creation going on and that therefore too much unemployment is being eliminated. As well as the growth of Social Security, in 18,500 more affiliates in the last few months, already with nineteen consecutive months of greater affiliation. That's data. Is that the intensity we want? Of course not, I wish we could have a little more, but these are positive data that I think we can have. And, as I told you before, the important thing is the equivalent jobs we calculated for next year, which are another 18,000, over the 17,000 and peaks that are going to occur in this exercise. That's what's really important, that's going to move, especially broaden the bases even to expand our income. When you referred to one of the groups here earlier, you made reference, I suppose you should be very attentive to the issue of newspapers in the last few days, right, when you talk about wages and poverty, about the theme of the AEAT report. Are we going to deny that this is a difficult situation? Somehow. Let's also deny that this data that it presents from 2014, curiously for what means incomes of less than 7,000 euros, is the same data as there was in 2008, in full grace? It's data, it's just contrasting them. We don't have to escape that kind of reasoning. As we don't have to get in the same bag, in the same denominator, please, when we talk and get paid, that is a real problem, with those people who either by retirement or because they start late during the work year in the particular year that we're all dealing with in the denominator. It's not the case, please! Let's not play with numbers, because eventually, behind every number, in this case there are people. What is true is that the situation is not getting worse over 2008, and therefore we must be sufficiently convinced of what we are doing. Income from 2016 and futures. Here again, many of you have questioned the income we earn this year. But if they're true income. So there's no more to look at the general government budgets, about the revenues derived from the deliveries to account, which in particular have to do with the taxes partially transferred, but also from the Suficiency Fund. Then if you get an evolution, an evolution that is real GDP. This has an evolution that, in addition to the liquidations of n-2 and the Convergence Fund, gives us a slot that goes between 320 and 360 million euros each year. That's the reality. The year that was atypical was the year 2015, the year 2015, because it collected a very small, very small settlement of the year 2013, when the collection quotas had fallen because a lot. Another topic where I wanted to stop for a moment is the topic of the roof and the rule of spending. Roof, expense rule. You know very well, and each of you, which is three of the tools, the indicators that we use in relation to budgetary stability and sustainability, both in the short and medium term. First of all, there is the issue of debt, of what was also mentioned here, the limit of debt, measured as a stop against GDP. Galicia – it looks like it looks at it – in that ratio, apart from fulfilling it every year, we've already practically reaped our debt and from now on what's going to be going down. So it's a much better situation than what's going on in every and every one of the autonomous communities, except for three. Regarding the ceiling or expenditure limit, the ceiling or expenditure limit, which, as you also know, is a magnitude that is independent for each year, so it's not a magnitude as if it's going to be the rule, which it's about to constrain and avoid consolidating spending of an extraordinary nature, which is supported by extraordinary income. That is the concept of a cost rule, a concept that is linked to the evolution of computer spending, so the average rate of trend GDP, which something has already been exposed here. But, please, let's not mix again – I tell you – the ceiling as a limit, which is a concrete year, a concrete year, a specific year. [[Murmurs.]] Therefore, you owe it. As I told them a little earlier, the second community in which debt decreased. The use of the debt is averted. But if during this whole stage it really is when you felt access to debt for this countercyclical character, which is what it was about to provoke! What didn't make sense, and until 2008, was access, although its level was lower, to the recourse to debt. Therefore, the resource that has been made throughout this 2009-2015 stage has been a more than prudent resource, perfectly from the economic point of view, designed to act in an anticyclical way. Deficit, the deficit, which has so many times been named here by all of you. But the deficit has an advantage. With what joy we discount those 150 million euros!, which are the 85 that we received again, 85 million euros this year 2015, 85 more than presumed by 2016, and so on, while we continue to comply, that other communities do not have it. So let's not deny those 85 with that ease. As we do not also disagree that, by entering into financial facility, which is the payment of the debt that takes place each year, and for at least three years, it causes that zero interest, which is another 65 million euros that this autonomous community has in particular for the year 2016, and, if we follow with the same tonic, what would give us for 2017, about 35-37 million euros of margin. So it's also very important to control the deficit, and it translates into a clear improvement for each of us. When we talk about fiscal policy, there are three things in fiscal policy that draw my attention. What makes my attention powerfully, especially when we talk about the IRPF, is that, on the one hand, if you criticize whether it is more or less progressive to the scale and the average effective type, when you see that going from 5 to 7 is fully progressive, perfectly comparable to what exists in most autonomous communities, and with a clear advantage in what we have, which are the average and low incomes, a clear advantage, which means almost 380 euros a year. But in addition, we already know that, indeed, the Autonomous Community does not have the capacity to adjust from 1 January on the subject of retentions, but we must bear in mind - it is sometimes difficult to bear in mind - that what we need is to have trained citizens, and citizens make their decisions, in this case of an economic nature, especially through consumption, in this case, the subject of the IRPF, because they are informed, not necessarily because they have to provoke. I understand that in certain benches it is very difficult to understand that citizens can be informed that they freely make their decisions. [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]] And finally, what I'm wondering about is that we have no competence for the IRPF theme, on the subject of... so, actually, social psychology. [[Murmurs.]] Let's go somewhere, that's why. [[Laughter]] What really points to me is that we are criticised that we have no competence for the subject of the tariff on which the subject of retentions is concerned. What I'm worried about is that you criticize the more or less progressive positioning that you can have with the scales. What really draws my attention is that, after all this, all groups present is a scale of change in the IRPF. But what are we left with? Do we have competition or not, and why does each opposition group present a scale for this type if so and what? I'll tell you. But it's not true. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Our...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-23-DSPG130.u18	Don't talk, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-23-DSPG130.u19	But it's not true, because, as you will see – and we have a very nice debate even today in the afternoon – as you will see, one thing is to have progressiveness and another to act with character – we'll even go up to virtually every citizen, minus the bottom line, as the group you represent, and which you just said is Vale. That's first. As for the tax on successions and prayers, of course!, it's the typical measure that we wanted to take before, so it was exposed in the electoral program. Was it possible? No, because we had a significant impact on income. It is that, year after year, what we must know is that the situation is about EUR 2 billion in revenue; that has its corollaries on decisions, obviously, of expenditure. That we can suddenly assume that 99 percent of the direct heirs do not tax, that up to 400,000 euros are beneficiaries, that the usual housing is kept out, and that this places 99 percent of our citizens in the best of Spain, is something to feel hidden? Somehow, it's something to be fully proud of what's going on here. And, of course, this has a corollary, which is: why do we take certain measures? Because we're trying to increase the income available to our citizens. Why? Because that, above all, will have a greater propensity to consumption than you are currently having, and this will lead to a growth that, in line with what we detect, will lead to an increase in employment. You don't have to be so smart to realize that now it's possible, via tax, to increase the income available to our citizens, so they can make their decisions free again. As well as another reference made by some of the groups – I think I remember – went to the subject of hydrocarbons. We all know that in hydrocarbons, when we analyze, 70% of autonomous communities have a similar, not identical, but very similar, taxation to what we have in Galicia. That's first. It's just that this has a very important impact on the entire professional framework, and on certain types of hydrocarbon consumption, but this has already been released in Galicia since January 1st this year. We don't have that kind of taxation for these collectives, which are more important because they influence the cost of their business provision. And on the other hand, any change in this parameter would have an impact on our income much higher than any of the other two we've been talking about right now. And on the other hand, there's just a little sitting down and seeing what's going on in the autonomous communities. In the autonomous communities in this case there is a confluence to this type of tax as we have configured in Galicia. The same happens curiously in the movement of the tax of successions and prayers, where there already begins to be even communities of political bias totally different from the one I represent in which there also begins to be an approximation to the concept, not so much as the 400,000, but around 300,000 or 300, and about a thousand. So these are movements that are drawing a changing stage where autonomous communities are in Galicia. To finish up, too, social package. The orientation of the people of these budgets was criticized here. But it's undeniable, it's undeniable, when you analyze the subject of dependence, and what's really behind it is the best coverage. To say that 10,000 new beneficiaries, up to 50,000 people attended, which means 320 million euros, because it's a demerit, really, we can't share that kind of argument. To say that in all the demographic problem, that up to now has not been put in sufficient value in my understanding by the opposition groups, we are not acting in a very clear way, of the best that can be in Spain, both by the sight of the public when we analyze from a fiscal point of view the improvements we have. As well as in the service delivery system, because we must once again put value on public daycare services, for example, which enables us to overcome the recommended European ratios of 33%. That's already a fact to this day. Should we stay there? Somehow. We must get there, through the nursery bonus, where we don't have a public device right now; that's what we're doing. We must reach the rural area, as well as not only the children under the age of three, but even facilitate reconciliation; totally. There have been several of you who have raised the issue of demographics, not only what is the question of social service, but who have put an emphasis on conciliation. We fully agree, because if I believe that the demographic issue is the fundamental issue in which I believe that we must establish points of encounter between the Government and the opposition, because that is the issue that is truly marking the very short-term future of our society. I think there are more points in common that we should -- anyone, legitimately, with their option -- put into full value. As well as the Plan of Fight Against Inequity, for example, where we contain all kinds of measures; or Risga, where we again shorten everything that can be the most extreme inclusion. So, high social content that has these budgets and totally social, totally for people. As one of the speakers also spoke of equality and violence, but if you just have to review the budgets. Of course, all budgets are improved, but at present, when about 13% of the General Secretariat's budget is raised, I understand that when certain tenths are criticized for this amount, it may be very little for some people. Not for us, especially as it means 1.8 million euros, about 100 percent more than there was in this 2015 for women in a particularly vulnerable situation. How can we not agree on that? How are we not going to multiply by two, now that we can, the situation that was up to this very 2015? How are we not going to agree on the Work Insertion Programme, where we put 650,000 euros – 100 percent again – more than what was in 2015? Social work and the left arm have developed it as much as this part of the House on this side here, perfectly!, we don't have to receive any original sin, nor anything like it. [[Murmurs.]] And, well, to go to the end, therefore, I do believe that right now the main problem society has in Galicia is employment, I've said it before, and so I'm going back to manifest it for the fourth or fifth time. The data, can we be happy? No way!; and the data are immensely better than we had a year ago, immensely better than those we had two years ago, totally agree! That must be the line? Yes! What do we have to go deep? Totally! And when we talk about economic growth, we don't reject it, because economic growth is what really allows us to be talking about jobs, and I hope that we get better and better jobs. But it's also what makes us an increasingly advanced society by guaranteeing our incomes, which are the ones that allow us to cover the costs of a lot of spending on well-being – especially in health care, education, social services, social policies in general – we have to develop. So, thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-23-DSPG130.u20	Thank you, Counselor. Round of the non-amendant parliamentary group. [[Pause.]] You have the floor for Fr. Pedro Puy Fraga's People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-23-DSPG130.u21	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good morning, gentlemen. I'm in the position of the People's Parliamentary Group and I want to begin by congratulating the Counsellor first because he brings to this House the first expansional budgets since the crisis began. Budgets that we believe will allow them to consolidate recovery both by encouraging consumption with powerful tax reductions and by strengthening investment, and by certifying budget figures. And also, secondly, but not lastly, because they will allow the recovery to be extended to all citizens, not only through a fiscal policy that introduces more progressive income tax, but also because social spending increases three times more than the average budget to help those who are suffering with more emphasis on the consequences of this crisis. Well, we, Mr. Beiras is not, must be that he is looking at us, as elsewhere, through plasma, because he is using plasma to follow the interventions of the People's Group. But the fact is that it was even questioned as a figure that gave equal to the growth that the gross domestic product had not grown. [[Applause]] Well, those of us who are dedicated to the economy know that the gross domestic product is not very accurate, there are many figures that are clearing the concept of gross domestic product, which is the aggregate wealth of an economy in a given period of time, that is, in the year. We know that there are even net economic well-being meters, which are the most accurate to know how societies are. What is true is that the gross domestic product is the indicator of the overall evolution of the economy. So it looks like we're growing 2% in 2015 and we're going to grow 2.5% in 2016, and that's not good. It's good, among other things, because even though we're growing above the European Union average, but under the Spanish average, it's a fairly solid growth, because it's not so much based on the consumption of families as well as on investments that grow more than the average of Spain, as well as on exports that are – as we say – growing above 10% in relation to the average of the Spanish set. And the consumption that is encouraged by these budgets. It must be remembered that people's income in good measure in recent years... and fortunately because families, who are often more responsible than many people who are engaged in and make proposals in the field of the public estate, are doing what families and businesses are doing, is freeing themselves. In 2008, 5.8% of the income available to families was spent on financial expenditure, i.e. to pay loans; in 2015, 1.46%. This means that families understood better than many political leaders, especially those who criticize these accounts today, understood what the ideology of the crisis was, what was the underlying problem. And the economy, well, there's a forecast of growth of 2.5. We know that Funcas expects it to be 3.8 for next year; we know that BBVA has just made a report that predicts an increase of 2.8 for 2016 also due to domestic demand and export dynamism. And we certainly believe that this is positive and that it has a lot to do with political stability, as the counselor said. Well, what are you here to say? Well, they're saying we're doing electoralism with these bills. I wonder, why is it electoralism to present some accounts that can be presented and that will be fulfilled, and why is it not electoralism to say that tax should be lowered or taxed more? But in reality you're the one who comes here with propaganda, they come with propaganda, with dogmas, they accuse us of farces and lies. And it's you who are in the slogan, in the dogma, and in the repetition by four spokespersons permanently; that's the Goeblian style, repeat four times a lie to see perhaps, so that it shuts up in the population, when it's not true. We're going to talk more modestly about what you're doing is deceptive advertising, and they do it everywhere. When we go to Greece and see what the radical left-left government did, it was to do everything contrary to what it said he was going to do and throw out of the government to Varufakis. By the way, whose projects and ideas brought us to this House, to support them by the People's Group, the members of the Alternative Left Glaga, and they received the support of the Socialist Party, which seems to be more left not of the Greek Socialist Party, but more to the left of Mr. Tsipras, because he is the one who left the Greek radical left. Well, you understand a lot of things. And they're also still on propaganda, and I said the spokesman for the Block must be remembered. Well, let's remember. Last year in this same debate the advisor said: "In Galicia we estimate that GDP growth in 2015 will be 2%," and explained why. Mr. Jorquera said, "These are not the budgets of consolidation, economic rotation and economic and social recovery; they will deepen and prolong the economic and social disaster." Mr. Biras said that "this is budget policy and, of course, the budgets you have, once again, are another step on the way to hell." And Mr. Méndez Romeo said that the economic framework we presented was hardly credible: "Announcing GDP will rise by 2%, twice as many countries as Germany, is an estimate above 20% of the European Commission's forecast for Spain. The Galician Union corrects international organizations even by raising 11% of August's forecasts here in the House." So here we are, growing by 2%, growing twice as much as Germany, and therefore with a reality that denies what the opposition spokespersons just in last year's debate. [[Applause]] Incidence of budgeting. We do not believe that budgeting is the exclusive instrument, not even possibly the fundamental instrument for combating unemployment, because public action is much broader than all that. Well, if we talked about the impact of governments on budgeting, I being a socialist would look in these cases, too, to be a little modest. Socialist governments with Mr. González, plus 1,147,000 unemployed; with Mr. Aznar – who today also brought those of the opposition to this debate – 1,440,000 unemployed less; with Mr. Zapatero's governments – who end in 2011 and where they take us every time to remind us of the good that we were in 2009 – plus 3,123,000 unemployed; Rajoy's government, minus 436,000 unemployed. The history of unemployment in Spain is associated with socialist governments, and the history of job creation is associated with governments of the People's Party. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] They say there's no money for employment, the socialist government's Andalusian last year has returned 227 million funds for employment in a community that has 32% unemployment. As they create jobs, they question their quality. It turns out that according to the latest EPA in Spain 13,615,000 contracts were signed between January and September this year, 11% more than last year. The number of undefined registered individuals has reached 1,116.000, 8.2% of the total, with a rise of 132,000 more than in 2014. In relative terms, the increase in indefinite contracts was 13.5 and the full-time of 16%. At present there are two countries in the eurozone that are creating indefinite jobs especially among the others: Germany, 2014-2015, 214,000; Spain, 167.000. The next country is Portugal, 55,000, and far below the others; France, in particular, destroyed 263,000. Well, of course, we believe that there is a lot to improve the labour market, that it is necessary to continue to improve those figures of the last known EPA to Galicia with an occupation that grows on 2.13 and a unemployment that goes down on 13.72. It's true that we don't comply with these figures, but what you can't do is deny reality and talk to the growing economy today and create jobs exactly as they talked about a year ago, two years ago, three years ago; that is, from the first day that the People's Party ruled together. Because when the People's Party came to rule the Union, the last year of the Left Government was destroyed in Galicia 51,000 jobs. And in the last year, from now on -- in a year -- 35,000 jobs were created -- that's a little difference. And I think you're still saying what they say is nothing more than the reality of speech being denied to you, and how are we going to let reality deny our speech? [[Applause]] The economic situation makes it possible to have an expansive budget, and here they spoke again today about the square of the circle. Let's see, first we have to define what an expansive budget is, because some who are in some municipal government of the Tides say it's expansive simply because they charge more taxes and spend more. That's not an expansive budget. An expansive budget is what drains, leaves resources in the hands of society so that, through economic activity, the economy will grow more than it has ever grown. If you raise taxes to the same extent that you increase expenditure, that budget is not expansive, whereas it is expansive when – as this budget of the Board does – taxes are lower, families have more resources and at the same time spending is increased, with which there is an injection of resources in the economy itself. These budgets are clearly expansive. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] And they say it's not possible, well, and it turns out that if it's possible. Why is that possible? Because the financing system gives EUR 540 million more than the previous year; because we pay less interest than the debt, EUR 65 million; because we put budgets in a reasonable way, in their execution over time, the Community funds; and therefore we also have more capital income. And this way we can have more spending and at the same time reduce the tax burden of families. And here too it was criticized for rising current expenditure, and I, please, would ask them for some consistency. It can't be that when chapter I goes down, the People's Party is loading health and education, and when chapter I goes up, what we're doing is not recovering health and education, but it's sinking the slate of current spending. Look, this is clearly contradictory. When a budget recovers purchasing power for officials, whose salaries rise up to 1% and at the same time they are returned – it is the third community at the time it did – 50% of the extra payment for 2012, that is not increasing the current expenditure; in its terminology it is to enhance precisely the public function, which in Galicia – as you know – basically devotes itself to social spending and educational expenditure. These jubilant games, I think, must be clear. [[Applause]] Galicia is the third community in the last two years that has invested most per capita. The capital expenditure in the budgets was 11.5; on the average of the autonomous communities was 8 and of the total of the autonomous communities. In debt, we have just been above the average of five GDP points below the average of what self-employed communities owe. Galicia pays more than twice as fast as its suppliers than the rest of the autonomous communities and without having to resort to the frag. And Galicia, for all that, is a community that has stability, which is solvent and which is demonstrating that you can manage and get out of the crisis with the proposals of the People's Party. I'd like to stop for a while at the tax discount, because it's been very unwary. Except for the nationalist group, which says that it doesn't want us to lower arbitrary transmissions between parents and children by heir up to a peak of EUR 400,000, that's all that was said. I want to remember that these 140 million euros are resources for the family, they're based on a very progressive fiscal strategy. We maintain wealth tax, the new rate of income tax for physical persons is also more progressive than it was, as the Socialist spokesperson acknowledged in his presentation to the Commission, and, of course, transmissions from rural to zero will allow for economic dynamisation and land mobilization. Along with other measures that will have to be further developed, such as the Land Bank. You've been arguing here a lot about whether IRPF's discount will be noticed in the payroll or not. I want to remember about this that the transfer is automatic, because what the state does, indeed, is not to retain on the basis of the autonomous tariff, but rather that what it does is to retain on the basis of its own tariff. It turns out that the German autonomic tariff is exactly the same for 80% of the taxpayers in the low income tranches, i.e., that the Greek taxpayer, if we hadn't done anything, would have a lower retention this year than would correspond to him, according to the autonomic rate, and next year I would have to pay more. So, what Mr. Beiras is saying, this is what comes about, what he's saying and what reflects the IRPF tariff presented by the Gaga de Lefte Alternative Group is: this year we leave the Government out of resources and next year we'll collect all that we put in the rate in the year two thousand such. I mean, what's got to do with AGE, if we approve the rate they propose, not the Government, it's the citizens. It's a curious way of defending them, especially because we're talking about lower income strata. We leave the rate at 9.5 in both the state and Galicia, they want 11.5 for those who earn 12,000 euros a year. Those who earn 17,000 the state and autonomous rate is 10.2 and AGE is going to be 11.5. And they're still here saying they're defending tax progression, because, yes, a lot of money comes up to them and they go from 20 to 24%. It's true that your rate is progressive, but the truth is that our rate is progressive...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-23-DSPG130.u22	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-23-DSPG130.u23	...by lowering those who earn less taxes. And if we talk about inheritances, we just remind them of EUR 573 million in 2008 and EUR 1,600 in 2009, we still keep paying them. And, well, let's see here that for a game of restraints, which is 80% of the state's mythical Greek contributors, which applies to the retentions from January 1st, because it never ceases to have its grace.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-23-DSPG130.u24	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-23-DSPG130.u25	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm done. I insist, you don't let reality ruin a slogan, because it's not even a headline, it's a slogan that we don't get out of the crisis, etc., etc. We recognize that things have much to improve, but that we are on the right path, and that's why I again finish by congratulating the counselor and his team for having a prudent account, realistic accounts that will allow us to consolidate recovery and extend, above all, the goodness of a growing economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-23-DSPG130.u26	Replica round of amending parliamentary groups. You have the floor for the Mixed Group to Mrs. Martínez García.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-23-DSPG130.u27	Thank you, President. Well, I was waking up from that song that we used to sing from kids who said something like, "Now that we're already alone we're gonna tell lies, it's gonna work." Because it's really an impressive film that tells us both the voices of the People's Party and the advisor himself. Look, you were bragging about self-government here, when it's the government who constantly and repeatedly refuses to assume competence. Since the opposition, it has been claimed hundreds of times that they exercise powers to carry on precisely that self-government. And you're repeatedly refusing to claim any competition, whether it's about our laughs, whether it's about the railways, whatever it is. You, of course, have no interest in ruling, because it's easy to obey Madrid, and come here with the arguments known to sell the lot to see if people don't find out, and still above all they say that so citizens and citizens have information to make their own decisions and know where they spend. Actually, it's unforgivable what you just said, it's unforgivable. You'll tell me with wages of EUR 400, for example, how you'll decide the person you spend it on or not spend it on. You should vote at least to be ashamed and not to say such things. Because people are not stupid, we are not the opposition we're here selling a lot, you are, because you're going to apply those budgets and you're going to take the opposite of the entire Greek society; because you can't deny what happened during this whole crisis, what's been going on in Greek society this year, what's going on every time there's a plenary session in this Parliament at the entrance of this Parliament. And that the solution that you have sought to prevent the population from telling Parliament what it wants, what it wants, what it wants, and what the problems it has, was to close Parliament to citizenship, is to treat citizens as criminals, as real criminals, with entry logs, with expulsions and with prohibitions from returning to full, that's your policy! You're talking about the approval of organisms. Of course, they have all the approval of all the agencies that support Troika's cutting policies, they have the approval of all the agencies interested in which the middle class reduces and increases precariousness and poverty. They have no intention of creating a cult country, technologically advanced, with leading companies, of course. And so when the Minister of Education dares to say that in the Spanish state there are too many university students, that is an illiterate government, a government without any sense of future, a government that thinks that education bothers and is bad for citizenship. Yes, I also regret that the Minister of Education makes such statements, but it is that you still talk about employment as if we were moving forward. There has been no further increase in unemployment in this country because people have fallen from unemployment, on the one hand; because they have emigrated our youth seeking jobs and life in other countries; and because you again insist on these budgets to support emigration, even though they now call it external mobility. But it's still the same emigration that you always support with these budgets. We are obviously opposed to the tax drop in a country with 220,000 unemployed, who lost more than 143,000 jobs, who has more than 153,000 workers and workers living under the poverty line, despite having paid jobs. That is the great success, the absolute poverty of the working class, which never counted on the support of the People's Party, as well as made clear the 2012 labour reform, which gave all power to entrepreneurs and totally unprotected the working class, leaving it without a basic tool for its defense as collective bargaining. And that's alardean. They are taxing when we in this Parliament report child poverty, child malnutrition, when we had to fight for school lunchers so that children could eat. And you lower your taxes, you take the money now, you take the money in full propaganda campaign. They lower taxes when they're condemning the population to the poor, unhealthy, and growing health problems that lead to many people not being able to buy the drugs or prosthetics they need to live their lives with dignity. You're talking about how the change in the IRPF increases the scales, and therefore it's more fair, but it's not talking about how minimal the scales are; seven scales don't have enough frames to create justice. But it's also true that the applied percentage doesn't grow depending on that income and that it keeps recording those who need the most money to meet their vital needs. Obviously, those who do not reach the minimum do not declare, and that seems to be good news for the Government, that there are thousands, hundreds of thousands of Greeks who will not declare because their wages and income are so minimal that they can't even declare. A great triumph, Counselor, of your policies. But you're also talking about the social package, the dependency, and you're saying that the dependency that's being cared for and that's going to get better. So I have to understand that to all those dependents who live in poverty, and that they are increasingly visible in the streets of our cities, asking for money to live, asking for food at the door of the supermarkets, you don't see them, that's nonexistent; it's another lie of the opposition. Like the subject of demography, which they intend to cover with a baby-check instead of putting the necessary measures into place so that anyone who has a child knows that his child will not miss anything and that he will have guaranteed the coverage of his basic needs. You talk about birth, when in this country all women know that getting pregnant can be a matter of dismissal, not renewal of contract. That happens in this country and you don't change it. Just like the gender pay gap that prevents many women who want to be mothers, they can be mothers. The Risga, with an indecent waiting list, and you, puf!, there are those who do puf. Puf makes people who have to pay for Risga for months, months and months. But that's not a problem for the People's Party either, as is not precarious work. As for the industry, you haven't talked about anything about which bet in industry, apart from being small budgets for industry, it seems that the naval, automotive, textile and development industries linked to the production of the rural environment don't go into their concerns either. I'm going to finish now, Madam President, thank you. In transport, they don't talk about the improvement of secondary roads when we take all the legislation, talking about the danger and abandonment of secondary roads and the danger that it poses to people living in rural areas. In justice, the judges of family and gender violence, who are scarce and collapsed, have not spoken anything about it either. As he did not speak of any actions directed towards ending the wage gap between Galicia and the state, between the wage gap between men and women. So, I think that, of course, if you really thought about this country, what you should do would be collect these budgets and present some budgets that really serve people's economic recovery, and not to seek votes from the People's Party. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-23-DSPG130.u28	Thank you very much, Mrs. Martínez. Parliamentary Group of the Galician Nationalist Block, Mr. Jorquera Caselas has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-23-DSPG130.u29	Thank you, Madam President. I'm going to try to be brief, because I think all the arguments are put on the table, I don't think I can find out the Mediterranean if I say that in this Parliament there is no real debate, which is a growth of monologues; therefore, I'm going to try to be synthetic by seeking to establish a real debate, Counsellor – and also Mr. Pedro Puy, spokesperson for the Popular Group. Estimates. Well, we can roll around here to discuss estimates; I simply bring a data: in our first intervention we dedicated a paragraph to contrast what were the estimates of its government with the actual data for the purpose of exercise, and the reality is that they did not succeed one. So they love everything they want to love, but the reality is, with the actual data for the end of exercise, they haven't hit one. Look, to override what the various opposition voices have exposed about our country's situation, you, Counsellor, have emphasized that international bodies and other external bodies point out that Galicia is vanguarded in meeting the deficit. That's what you highlighted; and I do a nuance: compliance with deficits at the cost of indebtedness to the country. You continue to insist on the fact that Galicia was indebted under the average of the autonomous communities – the difference, in your opinion, of what was done during the bipartite period. But that's not the relevant, Counselor, I'm not an economist, but anyone at least informed knows that in order to assess the sustainability of public debt, one must place public debt in relation to its impact on a country's gross domestic product. And by the end of 2008, Galician public debt represented 6.8% of our gross domestic product; that is, half less than when the government arrived the so well-known Bipartite. Therefore, the public debt generated at that time was total and absolutely sustainable, and was reduced in relation to its weight in GDP. Now it turns out that it represents more than 18.5% of GDP – almost 12 points more than you inherited –. That's what it means. But look, anyway, let's go back to the main argument: compliance with deficit. If you want, add a reasonable public debt, which I think is questionable, but add. Is that the fundamental thing? Is that the key to assessing the effectiveness of government economic policies? Look, budgets are the main tool that all government has to influence the march of the economy, especially when the Spanish State already lacks another basic tool as monetary policies – a tool that Galicia never had because of being a country without sovereignty. Well, then, is it the fundamental thing to meet the deficit targets?, or the fundamental thing is that the government's action during the crisis – because I'm not going to be as demagogy as you are, what does the crisis seem to have generated the bipartite—...? In the face of a crisis, has your Government's economic policy served to preserve social cohesion? Have you served for that, Counselor? I think it's obvious that in Galicia, since you rule, inequalities have grown in a total and absolutely exponential way, even leaving behind a very important sector of our society. Second question: did your policies serve, at least in a crisis context, to cushion the consequences of this crisis in our country? Have they finally served in relation to the countries of our environment, in relation to the rest of the countries that are part of the Spanish State, to converge or to diverge? I believe that all the data clearly indicate that their policies have served to further impoverish this country, in relative terms, in comparative terms, and I will not repeat all the data they speak for themselves, which we have already said in our first intervention. That is the fundamental of economic policies, and you have failed sharply: your inheritance will be a broken country in society, with an increasingly impoverished social majority, and a much more impoverished country in relation to the countries of your environment – and that's where to look, Counsellor, at the quality of public policies. I insist, what country project, what development model do you have?, what development model do you have to deduce from these budgets? They totally and absolutely lack him. Employment: You keep stressing that you are finally creating a net job. Look, I'm not going to discuss that either, is that at some point I had to start to create, at some point if I had to get to the bottom of the job destruction! Of all the crises, Mr. Counsellor, if you end up leaving, by the motorcycle we're still far from the exit of the crisis. The problem is what it costs, the problem is what model you're designing for after the crisis comes out. And the cost, what's it got to be? The data that I have provided – not only myself but also voices from other parliamentary groups – that 50% of all the employees in Greece pay less than EUR 1,000?, that 31% receive less pay than the minimum wage? That's how to create a net job? You all appeal to sustainability to talk about your obsession with fiscal consolidation policies, do you think it is sustainable a model that condemns an increasingly broad sector of our society to genuine situations of exclusion and poverty, Counsellor? Tell me those questions. Look, as far as fiscal policies are concerned, you insist on progress and in that sense I make a nuance: all the amendments that we present – both the Budgets Act and the Tax and Administrative Measures Act that accompany these budgets – have no other intention than to increase the progressiveity in the tax system. We do not propose to remove from a pen all the exemptions from the inheritance tax, we propose to reduce the minimum exemptions from 700,000 to 300,000 euros and at the same time to increase the progressiveity in the tables, as our amendments also aim to substantially increase the progressiveity in the IRPF tax. But look, about the progressiveness – this data also contributed to another voice – I did not contribute it: official data show that, compared to the rest of the autonomous communities – if we speak in legal terms, the rest of the autonomous communities of the Spanish state – since you govern the fiscal pressure in Galicia on average incomes and low incomes has risen in relation to the rest of the autonomous communities – and on high incomes, on the other hand, is lower. But you told me these questions: did you raise indirect taxes, yes or no, yes, right?Indirect taxes are progressive, aren't they?; the weight of indirect taxes in the collection set, with you or not, yes, right? Their tax policies did not serve to increase progress but rather to share the tax burden, even with much greater injustice, and the amendments to the BNG are aimed at correcting this aspect and increasing fiscal progress. Look, anyway, I don't want to end without referring to the other aspect: you have appealed in your second intervention to the fact that the autonomous competences, in particular the autonomous communities of the common regime on IRPF tax, are very limited. When you presented here the spending limit, I – on behalf of the BNG – devoted much of my intervention to the financing system, the absence of the Galician Board in that debate, while other communities claim that even what the law sets, that this system had to be reviewed last year, and they demand its review, the Galician Board remains silent. You have ended this debate by saying that on this issue, in this House, we would have opportunities to discuss the various parliamentary groups, and that the Government would establish a dialogue with the various parliamentary groups. What about the financing system? What about your review, your reform, the Galician Council's proposals, Counsellor? State legislation's over. Elections are called for on December 20. The central government has failed to fulfil that commitment and we have reached those elections, and the Galician Union has not yet said this mouth is mine, on a vital issue for our country, as is the financing system. Since the last revision, Galicia has lost 8,000 million euros from a total and absolutely unfair review, which does not take into account the actual needs of this country, and we have not heard a word in this whole debate. And I have already concluded, saying that, of course, the Galego Nationalist Block keeps the amendment to the whole, keeps the amendments to the whole sections that we have presented; and, because we consider that in the basic, fundamental aspects that guide these amendments to the whole, the criticisms that underpin these budgets on the part of other opposition groups are totally and absolutely consistent with the BNG approaches,...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-23-DSPG130.u30	Thank you very much, Mr. Jorquera.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-23-DSPG130.u31	...I also announce the BNG's favourable vote on the amendments tabled by the rest of the opposition groups. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-23-DSPG130.u32	Mr Beiras Torrado has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-23-DSPG130.u33	I'm going to debate with you, I've said it in the audience, Counselor – and without it being a precedent, I'm going to repeat it – but discussing it with you is as impossible as Galileo went to the Holy Office. The exercise of reason against dogma and, above all, the ability to falsify reality the beginning, because it makes it impossible for there to be a normal debate. I didn't use figures, no percentage or macro painting, I didn't speak of that absolutely for nothing; I say it because, as you said, "all groups," I, of course, don't; I don't waste my time on this because with you it's absolutely impossible. You say you use sources, reports, etc. –The BNG spokesman has just referred to things like that – which are solvents, but the Economic and Social Council is obviously not solvents. The honourable Member who shares with me the spokesperson in the AGE Group, even in the last few plenary sessions, insisted on this. You guys get used to it, as you usually say. The Economic and Social Council, no, it's worth more from a consultant to any institution... you choose what you can do well, even if it's an absolute lie, it doesn't matter. On the other hand, social package, I call you a social package! Well, for the social package, and the correct and rational allocation of resources that you make in the social package – which I suppose includes the allocations for social services, for social services such as, for example, health care; like, for example, culture, education, social services, social assistance etc., etc. – because I have good news for you, eh?, referring to that thing called the new Vigo hospital – which, above all, they have made you the instigation to put the name of Álvaro Cunqueiro, you would laugh at the dog if you had lived; this is the following: the European Union will study the possible illegality of the adjudication of Vigo hospital, because "the European Commission has just admitted the procedure of the complaint submitted by the Galician Public Health Association for possible irregularities in the adjudication of the new Vigo hospital for the Union, using the public-private funding formula." In the complaint it is said that "The contract of the new Vigo hospital which is null and void of right for failing to comply with the terms laid down in the tendering procedure and constitutes a clear breach of the Community legislation on public-private collaboration contracts", etc., etc. We have the complaint file and everything that has been submitted in Brussels and admitted to the proceedings. Of course, if it turns out that it's an animaled woman, who's going to pick up, it's what's coming behind you, not you, because the thing doesn't work out in fifteen days. That's your sense of responsibility, your sense of solvency, your sense of doing things right, right? Oh, yes, the principle of the citizen's legal security bothers them a nabo. Mr. Méndez Romeo made mention in his intervention, for example, of the case of the wind competitions of the Bipartite decree. There were judgments by the High Court of Justice that declared that there was no defect in the decree of the Bipartite that you had annulled. Galicia was absolutely out of play in a renewable energy is that fundamental while thermal power stations, including Sogama, of course, that it no longer feeds on coal but garbage – it's a very graphic picture, isn't it?, of what is produced in this country for garbage burning, to produce waste energy, waste of all kinds – it turns out, there!, there it was! And in addition, you have left in absolute legal insecurity to all legal and individual persons who are admitted to wind competitions for concessions and who have them. They care about a kid, you come in, take a pen, and it's over. And with Vigo's hospital, that robbery is also part of the social package. When you talk to me about the high social content of budgets, it comes to mind – sorry, it is about age, what I had to suffer when I studied Right – that of the Preamble of the forum of work: "Renewing the Catholic tradition of social justice and high human sense that informs our legislation of the empire, the State, as to the totalitarian instrument of service", etc. That's what you guys understand about social content. For they come Breogán and Ith and all those mythical characters and free us, because God, as Rosalía said, "As high as I was, the good God had not heard me" – in The Justice by the hand, I suppose they care about you." There is another report that just came out that says that Galicia has lost 20 percent of its hours of work since he began to rule Mr. Núñez – this in relation to what he says about the rebound... – and that if Galicia was really on average the destruction of State-operated employment, it would have 63,000 more full-time jobs today. But this, of course, does not matter to you, because that's not reliable because, if we say so in the opposition – even if the source is reliable – it's not worth anything compared to those who have the privilege of authentic interpeleration of the law and everything that is needed. Let's see, I think the best thing I can do to finish this procedure -- because you make this a simple procedure -- is to read out the recapitulation that we set out in the explanatory statement of our refund amendment. They tell us that, when André Gide, the French writer, had published Les faux-monnayeurs – "the false moedeiros", is the Spanish translation – in an interview he had said that it was already written, so the journalist asks "but then, if you say it's all written, why do you write?"and that he had just answered "is that, as no one reads, you have to write again." And maybe that's what we have to do here, at least so you can literally count on the Journal of Sessions. Look, gross capital formation – as you speak of growth – is the engine of growth, I suppose; and even in the most elemental macro-economic formula of the evolution of income product, because growth is the result of applying gross capital formation combined with the capital-product ratio, with the productivity of capital, right? Well, the productivity levels of the Greek economy seem to be in the clouds, on the one hand; and the gross formation of capital, where is it? –to begin with, that of public savings –. And I'm going to read them: the budgets for 2016 remain irreparably in the framework of the fiscal consolidation imposed on the Kingdom of Spain by the European Union. They respond to a contractual process of supposed stabilization of tax revenues started seven years ago, which meant passing a volume of non-financial income from 10,000 and peak million euros – of course – consolidated in 2009 to 7,800 and peak in 2014. Well, a reduction of 22.5%, well. On the other hand, in the same period, consolidated current expenditure decreased from 8,000 and peaked millions of euros to 7,300 and peaked millions in 2014, a reduction of 8.1. As a result, the financing capacity of public investment – i.e. in terms of gross savings – was strongly compromised, from 1,132 million liquidated in 2009 to only 29 in 2010, the first triumphal year – that was said in 1939 or 1940 when I was little, first triumphal year – at least 54 in 2011, at least 122 in 2012, at 76 in 2013 and again negative, of less 88 million in 2014. But you continue to insist on the kindness of the budget projections that you make for the 2016 budgets, where you estimate a gross saving of EUR 691 million. But the systematic failure to comply with the projections in the light of the consolidated settlement data contained in your own financial report accompanying the accounts you submit. I'm going to tell you that the deviation of gross savings generation forecasts for every year from 2010 to 2014 is expected to have liquidated 89.5% less than the forecast for 2010, 114% less in 2011, 143% less in 2012, 78.9 % less in 2013 and 146.3% less in 2014; that is, a system on estimate of that variable. See if it's about trusting what you're telling us now about budget projections, unless it turns out they're starting to rule you for the first time, because it can also happen, huh, because we're used to getting you here and talking for the first two or three years...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-23-DSPG130.u34	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-23-DSPG130.u35	...that I've been here listening to "the inheritance, the inheritance, the inheritance of the Bipartite," but not the inheritance of the twenty and I don't know how many years you've ruled with different labels. Yes, I'll finish. As a result, there was no possibility of providing public investment and the transfer of capital with gross savings; and therefore a forecast of having generated over the period 2010-2014 a gross saving volume of 1,480 million euros, a real negative saving volume of 129 million – i.e. 108% less than expected – was liquidated. So then what this means is that the corset of the budgetary stability objective will lead to the blindfolding of the lack of public funding and investment capacity. And finally, when you get to that, of course, balanced 2018 budget...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-23-DSPG130.u36	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-23-DSPG130.u37	...of 0% of deficits, funding can only be financed from final funds from, depending on, other administrations. With which is the thrust of self-government and financial autonomy. And I'm really done, just with this.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-23-DSPG130.u38	Yes, stop, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-23-DSPG130.u39	The supposed end of austerity is just the next step in the years of the consolidation imposed by the European Union on the Government of the State – and through it, to you –...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-23-DSPG130.u40	Thank you very much, Mr. Beers.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-23-DSPG130.u41	...with the stabilization of the reduction in the size of public expenditure of the state as a whole to the level of tax income reduction. The renunciation of real fiscal reform in a context of constitutionalization, the prohibition of public deficit and the obligation to reduce the levels of debt accumulated in these years is in practice the gradual decrease in public investment in the economy...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-23-DSPG130.u42	Thank you very much, Mr. Beers. Time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-23-DSPG130.u43	...and the best guarantee that the improbable recovery of public savings that can be produced is primarily aimed at the return of debt before the increase in public expenditure – which, in fact, serves as an expansive engine for the economy –.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-23-DSPG130.u44	Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Mr. Beers. [[Mr. Beiras Torrado pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Thank you very much, Mr. Beers. [[Mr. Beiras Torrado pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Thank you very much, Mr. Beers. [[Mr. Beiras Torrado pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-23-DSPG130.u45	The rest of it is barbaric in the drum of the exit of the...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-23-DSPG130.u46	Mr. Beers, it's over. [[Applause]] Socialist Group. Mr. Méndez Romeo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-23-DSPG130.u47	Madam President. Counsellor, perhaps this is a token of ingenuity on the part of this spokesman, but when you put the emphasis on defending social spending, you seemed to be a social democrat undercover. No, no, no doubt, you're not a Social Democratic, but you're a debtor of social spending, a punisher of people's rights. Counselor, look, you've been ruling for so long that it's enough to go to the hemospheres to find a stream of inconsistencies. For example, since 2009, unemployment in Spain has grown by 24.4% and in Galicia by 51.5%, more than double; the Greek economy in the same period has been worse than the Spanish economy. But, yes, Galicia was Spain's third community in terms of reducing teaching staff and the fourth in terms of reducing health personnel. This worsening of Galicia – today considered in all reports known as a community with little future – is correlated with the personal promotion of Mr. Feijóo in Madrid, offering himself as a substitute for not being well known that – or as a Tertullian, or as a preacher, or as a whipper, or as a mere companion – of all but exercising as a responsible ruler. Austerity was essential as a recipe, it was said here many times. I've written down the figures before. Now they multiply councils by doing unbiased unfoldments rather than accommodate damaged government members, government members who haven't done anything before, nor are they now expected to do anything relevant, merely government cosmetics. Or the publicized impact of organisms so many times exposed in all forums. We then look at the regular reports of the Ministry of Farming and it turns out that this has a minimal economic significance. That, of course, is less of the multiplicity of new organisms in Galicia to escape administrative law: Agency of Technology, Tourism, Taxes, Infrastructure, Cultural Industries, Health, etc. That's the reality, Counselor. The distance between his speech, announcements, promises, commitments and balances is infinite, it's immense. I insist on the earlier statement, no respectable organism, no academic expert, supports his vision of reality. It cannot be a conspiracy, only the finding – as in Andersen’s story – that the king is naked, wrapped only in the tunic of propaganda that is invisible to observers. It's not an exclusive phenomenon of Galicia, we're seeing as in Catalonia the ignited proclamations cover up the disaster of management repeatedly, even as the patriotic flag serves to cover up systematic theft. They are pernicious effects of politics when there are rulers with few scruples. The truth is, when recovery begins, uncertainties surround the Spanish economy to a greater degree than in the countries around us. Of course we do not deny that the recovery is being initiated, of course we read the data, but we also look at our context and, within Spain, Galicia is in a more unfavorable position. And the budgets you just presented for next year, despite the increments in some splits, do not bring any structural news or lines of force that are recognizable. That's more, they point to the consolidation of an aid model, which is chronically amortized exclusion with all the small lines of help you want. Look, Counselor, I'm not responsible for you being wrong. When we said here last year how the growth data were, because they are the ones published by the INE; you announced in 2014 that the country would grow to 1.2% and grow to 0.5%, less than half. But in addition to being wrong in 2014 they were wrong in 2013, in 2012, in 2011 and more in 2010; therefore, these are the data we have today, of the future we will talk about when the year is over. And I hope there will be greater growth than expected, Counselor, we would be satisfied with nothing but abandoning the path of the crisis in which we are. But of course, we can't forget why it grows. You look cheerfully at factors that have strongly affected the current situation, such as the price of oil or the policy followed by the European Central Bank, and also ignores the repeated warnings that are taking place on these dates, by all experts, that warn of economic downturn; also of Fedea, also of the tax and independent responsibility authority, also of the European Union. Employment policies. Look, experts agree on some instruments, dual FP, Galicia 1%; active employment policies, Galicia falls 50% with you. Do you know that 70% of young people's jobs are temporary? Do you think the future, the consolidation of the future, will be that?, systematic exclusion or the implementation of an unsustainable duality? You're talking about industry 4.0, which really likes your office colleague; industry 4.0. Mr. Economic Counsellor, this budget is devoted to R & D 0.86%. The aim of the European Union is 2%, and with you it's falling systematically. 0.86%, that's called 4.0. Long band. Spain's worst position according to the last official report. But what industry are you talking about? Since it's just virtual? I'm sorry to say that, but this is the data. That, in the real industry, where it works, you accepted the saying of the five major Spanish electricity companies to liquidate the renewables sector and even to prevent small farms – which are abundant in Galicia – from benefiting from something as simple as the technology of self-consumption, as developed in other European countries. Government subordinated to the interests of the electric lobby. It's nothing new that I'm telling you, you know him perfectly. Social action. Counselor, what do you want me to tell you? We would like more children's schools to facilitate reconciliation policies. But of course, what you're doing isn't that, you're doing more bonus policy, you're doing more welfare policy -- a light bonus, a school bonus, etc. It's cheaper, obviously, but it doesn't have the same effect. Instead, it achieves the consolidation of exclusion. However, they reject a housing policy at the height of the times. Do you think that with the data I gave you earlier, what is the wage structure right now in the country, we can stay close to the drama of housing for so many people? You were talking about how for hundreds of thousands of people in Galicia, income when they're busy, when they're working, is practically the same as the cost of a housing in any area, not just urban, but even suburban. We, Mr President, would like to see growth, that growth policy, when produced seriously and strictly, had not left out such a high percentage of the population. That the future of the country hadn't been keeping the quotas of inequality that we've come to with their policies. That the future of the country wasn't to leave half the people employed with incomes that make it difficult, when they don't openly prevent them from living with dignity; that is, to stop them from being workers but poor workers. To prevent, as has always happened, work, which was the guarantee of escape from poverty, today I don't even have that minimum guarantee. Paraphrasing a famous writer of a very interesting novel – which gave rise to an even more famous film – unfortunately, Galicia is not a country for young people. Unfortunately, we are drawing with their policies a country in which the opportunities of young people are to march, whether they have qualifications, or to harvest with operating wages, with garbage contracts, and what is worse, without any future of consolidation. And it is precisely against that, which is reflected in its budgets, against which the Socialist Group has to vote but not on this budget and ask for its return again.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-23-DSPG130.u48	Thank you, Mr. Méndez Romeo. The Councilman of Fairy has the floor to close this debate.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-23-DSPG130.u49	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen. Two of the intervening groups have just made a reference again to the topic of the macroeconomic framework, whether or not it is right in certain forecasts. I have to agree with you that it is indeed difficult to estimate; but what is difficult is also whether you hide the truth or not to talk about all of them. Because in the series we have, the biggest mistake, curiously, is that of the year 2009. Do you remember who was in the government then? Do you think then the differential was 4.8% between what was estimated and what was really? Please, a little serious. When we talk about 0.1% or 0.4%, as it was last year, we talk about 4.8% differently in 2009, I think it's a large enough amount to take into account. [[Applause]] I mean, you've been told a lot, but sometimes when certain opinions are contrasted, you're shocked. The first time you put your handkerchief on, they're perfectly exposed. As another canteen is discovered and a bat that year after year, exercise on exercise, we also have to hear. And at this point, when one criticises the composition at ten or thirteen of the Board that was at its time, or if he prefers it better, when we compare the volume of high office on economic issues, which is what I'm interested in as advisor to Fairy, bringing as a great support the change that is currently in Joine at ten, when truly in the Bipartite at high office you had 82% more in high office expenses – 82% more! – or possibly, as you repeat in each commission, which had 54% more, you will understand that it is impossible to agree, because what you really say is totally and frontally shocking when you have the responsibility of government and exercise that freedom that all governments must have. So I can't agree more than that. As when we talk here about certain data on public employment, and when we talk about health again, about education, it gives certain data, and the data, placed in its context, what indicates is that public employment in Galicia, throughout the period from 2009 to 2015, presents the most stable results. Therefore, in no way does it match some messages that are about to be launched from different groups here. In what I do have to agree on is on a subject not sufficiently explained in the first intervention, since it didn't stand for it. And I repeat again: the fundamental issue that the Autonomous Community has for 2016 is, of course, the whole topic of new autonomous funding, of course, yes! It's about self-financing. I've already said it in parliamentary office and I'll reiterate it again. The opportunity is the fundamental gift, and the opportunity was not 2015, the opportunity is expected to be 2016. The review of the system was the one offered, and the Business Council always participated. The last document we sent to the working groups, or the proposal for an analysis of the current reality of the financing system, was submitted in August. Therefore, always with a collaborative attitude, as it should be, with the rest of autonomous communities and with the ministry in Madrid. Always collaborative. We are in the process of being reviewed, we are bringing our proposals closer to, which in essence revolve around what we have said. Any autonomous community that manages is spending, above all -- an important amount of expenditure that has to do with health care, which has to do with education, which has to do with social services. And in Galicia, above all, we have to analyze and discriminate about spending. Not only for income, but above all for expenditure. There goes our true specificity, which has to do with the dependency rate and with something else that no one has in Spain, which is our population dispersion, which has a great impact on the provision of services. So, as I've already promised before, let's go ahead and, obviously, we have to talk to each and every one of the groups in the House and we're never going to refuse that opportunity to talk to all of you. By the way, a little detail before I leave. When you talked about my person, remembering another Valerian and certain grace, what if I can tell you is that Valerian what epistemologically means is saved and strong. Saved because my mother, when she went with me in the belly, fell when she was in the tub to wash the river and it caused my birth. And strong, because it must be very strong to hear some of the things that are said here in this Parliament. [[Applause]] But despite the logical discrepancies, I think it is good for you to thank everyone's interventions and everyone's. I'm the ones who think that, even though I'm almost 55 years old, there's still a lot to learn. I hope some of you have learned something as well during this whole stage. For our government, although not matching its formulations, it's always good to contrast political ideas and positions, because what we owe ourselves is the best interests of the Greeks and the Greeks. The common objective, and what we must all join together, is that Galicia, in our interpretation, must continue to consolidate in 2016 economic growth and job creation, so that that recovery – since we speak a lot during today's morning – will be transferred directly and completely to all homes and businesses in our autonomous community. In closing this debate, where everyone formulates their strategy, I am more convinced that the project we defend from this government is what Galicia needs to achieve the goal of the country. During the speeches this morning – it is logical – we have attended criticisms by the opposition more or less repeated on other occasions and in the committee, but we have ended this debate without a viable, realistic or coherent alternative, in my view, by different oppositions. Even though some votes are given to each other, truly I have found little coincidence in the messages that have been launching each of you, the four groups. But what is true is that we are in a key moment for Galicia, so it is very important that these budgets be approved by December. We must take advantage of all the margins that allow us income to really start our economic dynamisation, job creation, and especially reach people. The truth is that they were very hard years, of great sacrifices, and now that we have certain incomes we must be able to do everything we haven't done at a certain time. The most important thing is that recovery comes to everyone. We need to deepen the recovery of consumption – as I said before – by means of sufficiently important tax measures, the most important tax policy in the history of Autonomy, which allows us to move the available income through consumption, through employment. Ladies and gentlemen, this Government has been responsible for managing the toughest years it has had to face any Executive in the history of Autonomy, and although we have not been able to reach all demands for the falling content of income and resources, we consider that we humbly save the most important: we shielded public services and kept at all times, in all circumstances, the solvency of the Community as well as our financial autonomy, to be owners of our future and to make the decisions that best suit the Greeks and the Greeks. Now the bases of recovery are becoming more and more solid, and we have the best elements to consolidate it, because we are a community that has stability, we have solvency, we are reliable and we can decide without any external conditioning. Many communities would be delighted to be able to present this situation to this day. No one can question the good evolution since the beginning of the legislation. It is not – please – to be a triumphalist, but, just as it was not responsible to deny the crisis, it is not to deny that the situation is much better than three years ago, and that one year ago, when this same debate took place. But, I insist, the work is not finished, and we have a year of legislation that we have to make the most of to collect in the form of more employment and greater well-being the fruit of the collective effort of the Greeks during the crisis. To take advantage of it we have a proper budget; with more income but realistic, in which we continue with the rigour and prudence of the last few years so that, indeed, it can be useful and can respond to the objectives that we mark ourselves as Government. I want to emphasize the importance of unity and common effort. For what? For, once you have reached this year important growth rates, you can improve them in 2016. Once achieved in this exercise that Galicia once again creates net employment, consolidates the recovery of the labour market next year. And once the public services were shielded despite having less income, they strengthened them in 2016 by providing them with more resources. And with the priority of being able to respond swiftly and effectively to the multiple demands that still have many Greeks today, giving solutions to the problems of people who need it most. Only when we're able to do this will we have a fair economic recovery completed. To achieve it, this government has credibility. We have made it clear and we have been responsible during the recession, and we also have clear ideas to try to make the most of the new resources we will count on to promote growth, employment and the well-being of the Greeks and the Greeks. I wish all of you, with all your heart, a good job in handling these budgets, and I hope to count on this path with all parliamentary groups. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Voting of amendments to the whole claiming the overall refund of budgets and any section or expenditure manager centre: Group I
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-23-DSPG130.u50	Thank you very much, Counselor. We are voting on Amendments to Group I. We begin with the vote on the amendments to the whole motion for a global return of budgets. We voted for the amendment of the Joint Parliamentary Group No. 1, document No. 43612. Vote of the amendment to the whole that calls for the global refund of budgets, number 1, document number 43612, of the G.P. Mixed The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. This amendment is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-23-DSPG130.u51	We voted for Amendment No 1 to the Parliamentary Group on the Nationalist Block in Wales. Vote of the amendment to the whole that calls for the global refund of budgets, number 1, document number 43552, of the G.P. of the Galician Nationalist Block. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 41- The result of the vote is negative. This amendment is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-23-DSPG130.u52	Amendment No 1 of the Parliamentary Group on Alternative Left Galeg, Vote of the amendment to the whole that calls for the global refund of budgets, number 1, document number 43565, of the G.P. of the Alternative Left-Galga. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 41. The voting is negative This amendment is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-23-DSPG130.u53	Amendment No 1 of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia. Voting the amendment to the whole that calls for the global refund of budgets, number 1, document number 43599, of the G.P. of the Galician Socialists. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. This amendment is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-23-DSPG130.u54	We then vote, if you don't tell me the opposite, together, of the changes in budget refunds for sections or expenditure managers. We started with the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, amends 1 to 12. We vote. Voting G.P. amendments. of the Galician Nationalist Block numbers 1 to 12 returning budgets from sections or expenditure managers. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-23-DSPG130.u55	We voted for amendments to the Parliamentary Group of the Gaga de Left Alternative, paragraphs 1 to 25. Voting G.P. amendments. of Alternative Left Galeg numbers 1 to 25 returning budgets from sections or expenditure managers. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-23-DSPG130.u56	We voted for amendments by Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, paragraphs 1 to 11. Voting G.P. amendments. of the Socialists of Galicia numbers 1 to 11 of returning the budget of the sections or of the expenditure managers. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-23-DSPG130.u57	Once we have taken Group I's votes, we'll suspend the meeting until this afternoon at 4.30 p.m. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-23-DSPG130.u58	Good afternoon, ladies. Take your seats, please. Good afternoon again. Let's restart the session. It corresponds at this point to joining the second group. Debates and votes on amendments amending the overall budget content or transferring appropriations between sections
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-23-DSPG130.u59	The amendments submitted are as follows. Amendments modifying the overall content of budgets: by the Galician Nationalist Block, Amendments Nos 28 to 53; Parliamentary Group of the Left Galician Alternative, Amendments Nos 1 to 7, and 1 to 9 – First part of the document submitted –; Socialist Group, Amendment No 1. Amendments that transfer credits between sections: by the Galician Nationalist Block, Amendments 1 to 27, and 54 to 59; Parliamentary Group of the Gaga de Left Alternative – the second part of the document submitted – amends 1 to 25; and the Socialist Group, amends number 1. For their defence round, first of all, by the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs. Pontón Mondelo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-23-DSPG130.u60	Good afternoon, gentlemen. We now resume the second part of this whole debate with a confirmed conviction by the BNG: the need for a model change and a paradigm change. We understand, moreover, that in this paradigm shift it is essential that Galicia has the ability to decide on matters that compete with us as a people; that is to say, having instruments to be able to face the challenges and problems that our society is experiencing. We have also found, not only in this debate, but in social contact with people, that, of course, these six years of cuts have caused injustice, that they have caused an increase in inequalities in our country, and that the policies that have been enshrined by Mr Feijóo's Government – not always in the important debates in this House – have not been able to curb youth migration, have not succeeded in our country in generating quality jobs; and therefore, in an aspect which is a fundamental right, as is the right to employment. In fact, what we see is how in these years the only thing that has been consolidated was a model that is clearly based on the fact that the Greeks work more and cover less, and where differences and non-convergence become a very worrying structural sector for our future. Now, ladies and gentlemen, the average gross salary in our country is 500 euros lower than what is perceived in Madrid; that is, the wages of the Greeks and the Greeks is 12.43 euros on average an effective time, while the Spanish average is 14.71. A model that, from our point of view, cannot constitute a valid starting point in order to undertake a change like what our country needs. We see, therefore, how these six years of the Government of Feijóo have assumed a black sexism that increases and accelerates a situation of social emergency in our country, of national emergency. We have more unemployment, we have fewer employees, we have more inequality and, therefore, less social justice, and we have more emigration and less opportunities in Galicia. And we see how it presents us with a policy that is like a repetition of past mistakes: a project of budgets lacking country project, rigged with lies and electoral promises. In the face of this policy, we advocate amendments that stem from the need to present an alternative to the resignation and subordination that the Government of Feijóo represents, with substantial changes in spending policies and also income policies. Our amendments make it clear that it is possible to make another policy, that it is possible, of course, to prioritize employment, the rescue of public services and the rescue of people. In particular, in these amendments today we mobilise more than 800 million euros, where we believe that a fundamental part has to do with income policy and therefore also with a change in the fiscal policy we want for Galicia. We – we have said in the morning our spokesperson – believe that the changes that have been made by Mr. Núñez Feijóo have been regressive changes over these years. These taxes that we all pay have increased, even if we have less income. And really, there's a tax that's a return tax. In the small capacity that we have to be able to influence one of the fundamental instruments as the IRPF is, we propose that we actually implement that policy of paying those who have the most. So we propose different steps in the IRPF. We propose that the lower incomes if they can lower their taxes, but the higher incomes should have a higher tax. So we propose a raise of the type that applies to the rents between 60,000 and 120,000; and we propose a new type to the rents of more than 120,000 euros, going up to 25,5. We understand, with the calculations we have made, that these reforms could amount to about 18 million euros more. We also believe that we can make improvements in progressive property tax, increasing it to those higher assets and reducing the minimum exemptions. So here too, Galicia could have the capacity to raise 35 million euros more. And we propose again that we record the capital, that there are mechanisms that could at this time be using the Government of Galicia so that the incomes of the capital have a greater impact on the Welsh public archives. In particular, we propose the creation of a tax on large areas and also on bank deposits, which in their entirety would allow us to have around 135 million euros more than currently computed the Board of Galicia. And all of this without having to continue with single and exclusive tax charges on the income of the work. It seems to us that these issues are fundamental. Just as we understand that change that is made on the tax of successions and prayers is a step back. Therefore, we do not agree with that proposal and that we stop entering around EUR 42 million for the Welsh Fair – which we consider to be very important because in our country there are many social needs, in the economic field, in the field of public services and in the creation of employment – that would require not only these resources, but many more. So we understand that this is a fundamental part of the debate we have here today, which is not only how it is spent, but also how it gets in. And in that sense, we think that the Galician Union is not expressing to the whole self-government, the ability that we have to generate more income through a tax route and that it is also through a progressive, fair way, that makes real that principle that it pays more than it has. As for the changes we proposed in the expenditure of the Galician Board of Auditors, our priorities in this case would be three. It's a set of amendments that they advocate is really betting on the creation of quality jobs through support for our productive base, because that's what we think is the employment policy that our country needs. We also propose the rescue of public services and social rights against the privatizations of the People's Party. And a very clear bet also for our culture, for our language, as an element of well-being and social cohesion, which is also an important element and where in Galicia we are losing many opportunities for a silly policy that is practicing the Government of Beijóo in this matter. Very quickly, I'm going to highlight some of the amendments, some of the proposals, which we think are important to our group. In particular, we greatly underestimate the cost of infrastructure, because we believe that it is not the time of more cement policy, but the policy of the bailout of social rights, of public rights, of the wager for job creation. And in that sense, it seems to us that one of the most important debates we have raised in these amendments is the need to rescue basic public services from privatization, such as health services. In particular, we, in our amendments, propose to provide more resources for health care and that part of these resources that are destined for health care go to the rescue of this Vigo hospital, because we are seeing the privatization of health is causing a serious social problem, is also causing an important deterioration in the quality of care and seems to us a policy that needs to be rectified, now that perhaps we are still in time. In any case, we believe that one of the most important priorities our country has is the need to have a strategy that will enable the creation of quality employment in our country. In this sense, we, in the face of the cuts that the People's Party has been practicing in R & D+i, propose to dedicate 65 million euros to an industrialization and promotion plan for R & D+i, because we believe that this is an area where there are many possibilities in our country that are being broken by the cuts that led to the People's Party. We also propose EUR 68 million for an employment plan for those workers who are in a situation of greater vulnerability. We also have a structural problem today with many people who are already advanced in age, who have been unemployed for a long time and therefore have a lot of difficulty finding a job. A return plan for youth emigration. And, above all, a policy that focuses on producing this country, on supporting our productive sectors. In this area we have proposals like 28 million euros for the Naval Repair Centre, that center that already promised Mr Feijóo in 2009 and that we are in 2016 without any news of that promise that so many times has been made to that region and that always falls in broken bags. We also propose measures for industrialization and transformation in the dairy sector, because we understand that this is a strategic sector for our country, for rural areas, to have a living rural environment where it does not continue to move so rapidly towards desertification of a very important part of our country. We believe that it is the backbone of our rural society, so we don't understand the passivity of the Galician Union in the face of a structural problem such as the lack of support for industrialization measures and therefore the transformation of the milk we produce in our country. We also believe that in this area of rural life it would be very important for a real and true bet to boost the dynamization of land and the Land Bank, and we propose an amendment that would provide this policy with 16 million euros, and therefore put an end to the desire in this area of the Galician Union, which sets out the policy that was in 2009 to spoil a possible future for our country. As I said, another of the priorities for us is the rescue of public services and social rights. We believe that we have to address the rescue of Vigo hospital; therefore, to rescue people's right to health. We also believe that an effective replacement of all those posts which have been abolished in the field of public services, particularly in health and education, is essential, where the offer made by the Galician Union is insufficient to cover the cuts that have been taking place over the past six years. We're seeing the lack of teachers, the lack of health care personnel, as it's a very serious problem that directly affects the quality of services and the speed with which these services can be provided to many people. In the field of health, we also collect in our amendments a growing social concern in our country, such as the absence of the meninxitation C vaccine in our country's vaccination schedule; a proposal that we provide with EUR 8 million. As far as social policy is concerned, we also highlight the recovery of the universal freeness of textbooks. We believe this is a measure that has a more important impact on the lives of people than the baby check, because it would allow all those people who have children and daughters in Galicia to return to the cheapest school in the whole state, and the policy that Mr. Feijóo applied the only thing he did was to remove that advantage to put in place a failed program, a program that was more expensive than what was in operation and that served fewer people. So a policy that was against equality in access to the public education system. In this area, we believe that the Galician Union is not understanding the needs of our public university; that the new financing agreements, as the principals have denounced, do not meet the needs of our public university. We believe that university funding should be increased and that the Galician Board should also make an important effort because the children and daughters of those people with less economic resources have a system of scholarships that ensures that no one can access the university for their economic situation. And, in particular, for these two actions in the field of university, we make a proposal to increase appropriations by 38 million euros both for the regular funding of universities and for the provision of a scholarship policy that facilitates the access of all people to the university. In the social bloc, we also find it important to fight poverty, a growing poverty in our country and to which we propose to allocate 55 million euros, a social emergency plan or measures that prevent us from having such an important level of eviction in our country and which, therefore, guarantees the right of access to housing. Finally, we bet on our language and culture. We propose to triple resources for linguistic normalization, which simply means putting them at the 2009 level. And we believe that at a time of the emergence of the Greek language, an anemic policy is to contribute to the bad tendency of our country and that this would be a key issue in the future and social cohesion of Galicia. We also believe that it is an erratic policy of systematic crop cuts, which are areas where all developed countries make a key bet because they have not only potential in Galicia's external projection as a...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-23-DSPG130.u61	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-23-DSPG130.u62	...nation, but also because of their impact on job creation, social cohesion and the quality of life of a country. And in that sense, the cuts that have been produced in this matter have led to a impoverishment of the culture of Galician culture, a limitation on the development of our culture and citizens' right to access it. And finally, a series of measures that have to do with the defense of our environment, such as the sanitation of rivers, the composting of composting or the launching of measures such as the proximity of our country through rail, which is a great necessity if you want to change a model that is highly contaminant, such as the displacement model...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-23-DSPG130.u63	Thank you very much, Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-23-DSPG130.u64	...that we have in Galicia. Ultimately, alternative proposals that show that the Galician Union is unable to address the most relevant problems in our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-23-DSPG130.u65	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. For the Parliamentary Group of the Alternative Galga de Left has the word dona Yolanda Díaz Pérez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-23-DSPG130.u66	Good afternoon, President. First of all, I wanted to outline as a sort of amendment to which the councillor of Fairy has explained in the morning, because we believe from the Alternative Left Gaga that some of the claims that have been seen in this Chamber must be denied. First of them, Counselor, it is not true that we are recovering from the crisis, quite the contrary. You know, surely better than I am, that there are a lot of experts who are indicating that we are in a new international crisis, than, besides, we don't know what's going to be their reach, nor even how it's going to be the impact that the same cause on all of us. So, you, who so much likes to work with macroeconomic data and realities as they do in the budget and must do about what happens in the world, it would be convenient for that frontispician to also incorporate that element of a crisis that – I insist – we do not know nor can we know today what it will be like in our country as well. Therefore, first falsehood that you have reflected and affirmed in this Chamber. Secondly, the parameters you still handle in the job creation key are radically false. Not only do you create jobs, but you're shredders of massive job demolition. And even if I'm allowed, you've also spoken in the morning, as they've been talking since we started the budget debate, which would create 18,000 jobs; of course, what you don't say is that since they ran they destroyed 185,000. They're going to create 18,000, they've destroyed 180,000, and exactly in the industrial field, they've destroyed 57,000, that is, the thing remains as you can imagine. But not only that, is that you don't say, or you don't want to talk about it, it's about the reality of this country, about the reality of the quality of work that we have in our country. He didn't want to talk about what we've already talked about in this Chamber, and that's that we have less active population, that we have more unemployed, that we have fewer social security affiliations, that we have lower wages, that we have 177,000 people in Galicia who have no social coverage, that we have 177,000 people in Galicia who receive 2,000 euros gross a year, that we have 123,000 employees – that is to say high and clear – who receive 7,000 euros a year. These are the sources mentioned in the morning of the Tributary Agency's labour market; I suppose you know them. He didn't talk about it. He didn't even tell us that we have 131,000 employees who actually get gross EUR 11.400 per year. You didn't mention that I'm really like a social actress in Galicia, which he didn't want to talk about. What they're talking about is some budgets that follow a brutal agenda that will not only serve to get out of the crisis, but will consolidate the crisis. And why will it consolidate the crisis? Firstly, because these budgets do not include the possibility of creating jobs. It's unreal, Counselor. And not only does it not only do it, but I also think that they have too much pride or directly attack this country when, for example, you assume that you are in criticism not veiled but directly to the Alternative Left Galicia when we question the drone center of the Rozas, and you are very proud to assume here you are worth 55 million euros, when you condemn an entire region, but ultimately condemn this country to dissipate from a sector like the naval sector, which if for you were strategic today would accept the amendment of AGE and other opposition groups so that we can build the floating dam in Galicia. It is true that we know that you will vote against this amendment that we propose in this text, but we also thank you that last week, Mr Aguilera, of the Igape, because this spokesman has already spoken to you in the Committee on Industry which will not do the floating dam, and also answered us and acknowledged that failed character of the Ferrol Plan. At least we'll make it clear that this amendment of the Gaga Alternative will not go forward. And they're very lucky those of the Ministry of Defence, which thanks to the powerful collaboration of the Galician Union, with 55 million euros, because we're actually going to have military technology to continue killing in Syria, Libya, Afghanistan and wherever it is, in Africa, is equal; so we're going to have cutting-edge technology. Secondly, you have said some falsehoods too, Counselor. He has come to claim that you, first of all, were less indebted than the rest of the autonomous communities, when you know that almost tripled, without nearly, they tripled the debt since they arrived, and that Mr. Feijóo is the most expensive president in history, I say again: the reason of 10,000 million euros. But you said in your speech that it was a debt that we criticized you for palliating or developing countercyclical policies, Counselor. You and the previous advisor – the intervention is answered – come to recognize that they are in debt to continue paying debts, i.e., that they win the bank. That's what happens in our country: the bank wins. Yes, yes, that's the business, and look at the intervention, if you like, of Mrs. Muñoz, who has come to claim that they are in debt to pay wages. I'm not going to tell you what that is, that you know it very well. It is therefore false that you have contracted more than €10,000 million in debt to the most expensive president in history for productive investments, Counsellor. It's fake. They are in debt to continue paying debts, to that big bank, to that capitalism of friends and that financial economy of which, indeed, you assume. That's why I'm going to give you the reason, because one of his claims was that Galicia was "the Autonomous Community reference" -- I don't want to lie, I literally took note -- "in compliance with the public deficit"; in that is indeed true, Counsellor. They're radical in applying the zero deficit doctrine. In this they are absolutely able to leave a stream of human corpses in our country, without home, without being able to feed their children three daily meals, as we have the former Wellness advisor, who informed us in his report of 18,000 families who have nutritional problems. But it doesn't matter to us, because the most important thing for you is to meet the zero deficit and indeed to comply with the stability laws and the framework of that European, which is criminal, Mr Counsellor. That's why I'm right. You don't lie there. It's injustice-generating machines, no doubt. He also said some things I'd like to stop. He assumed what was happening in the labour market; I will not tell him already what was said. Look, in the Spanish state as a whole, we've lost 45 million hours of work, but – as it has been said – in Galicia we've lost 20 percent of hours of work, which shows that we're affirming from AGE: that we live in a real economy of slavery. And slavery is incorporate in the roles of people who have the possibility of reaching a job, Counselor, of course. What's going on is that they're replacing full-time jobs with part-time jobs, but it's as obvious as that, let's go, they're public reports and that you should know a lot better than me. So in the proposals that have been made, some falsities too. You're still stuck in that proposal that they're realistic budgets when they know they don't; they know that after 20-D, Counselor, we're going to have a new adjustment of more than 10 billion euros. You know it perfectly and you know that that spending ceiling, even if you keep insisting on it, if you apply the rules as Mr. Montoro said to the whole world, you will be able to apply only 1.8%, as the rule says to the rest of the state. No, they're going to give a present because you want it to be so, because then the regulation Mr. Montoro says – I insist – is of course false. Another falsehood: you said – I think wrong, because you already know everyone who is not solvents, who are very expensive and who are in debt – has again assumed that they have not entered the FLA. Counselor, I won't repeat again what Montoro de Galicia said about his not entering the FLA. You know what Montoro said? I don't repeat it again. Sovereignty, they didn't enter the FLA for pride, and they cost the Greeks and the Greeks a paste their not entering the FLA. This is reality, isn't it? Then, Mr. Montoro, Mr. Counselor, mind, and I say here to me that the Minister of Fairy calls me to tell me that he says these things here; no, they are in the media, and if not true, Mr. Counselor, for he denies it. Well, then also claims like they're in the face of progressive tax policy. Counselor, what you're doing is a genuine irresponsibility. These are expansive budgets for a year. I don't know if they're electoral or not, it doesn't matter because there's really no one who believes them. Now, if they're expansive, they're just expansive for a year, which will happen to be the year of the autonomic elections, almost! Secondly, irresponsible, because that gift and the tax discount they make is fearful; it's not going to be applied in that exercise, they know it perfectly and let's say it again: it's going to be in 2017. And to apply that tax discount to a direct tax like the IRPF next Galician union, which will be left, Counsellor, will have to apply the scissors' share. That's their greatest irresponsibility. Therefore, it is another falsehood that they affirmed in this Chamber. Not only do they have a progressive tax policy, they are absolutely regressive. We have been convicted of a massive IV which pays both Pablo Isla or Amancio Ortega, Counsellor, as one of these hired persons without social protection. The leathers of the children and children of this country pay 21%, Counselor. Is that progressive? Please don't take our hair, this is your tax policy. That clip that makes him pay Juan Pueblo with new cuts. By the way, an adjustment plan will also be drawn up under all the provisions of the Budget Act to continue to empower public officials and civil servants, and otherwise they will not cease to apply the suspension of Article 19 of the Fifth Collective Convention. I do not insist on the measures of public officials. So, what does Alternative Left-Galga do? For indeed, to mobilize resources with the creation of new taxes, which is possible and necessary. Of course, we want to go up the tallest sections of the IRPF, of course, because we understand that wage income has to contribute more to public buildings. And there we mobilize – it's not a very large amount – 20 million euros either. There are other proposals that increase this amount, 20 million euros. We also want to have autonomous taxes on environmental damage, which we have made up of 52 million euros, in several parts. It's possible, Counselor. Maybe we're wrong, maybe we don't do it so well, but it's possible if they want to. We also call for taxes to record large commercial areas, to record empty floors; taxes, indeed, that have to do with the fight against tax fraud; taxes that have to do with increases in other tax benefits. What do we want to do? For we, basically, act on three ways. What are the three ways? Well, health, welfare and teaching policy, as well as new creations. For example, we propose, and we believe that this is a very interesting initiative – it would be convenient for them to look at Andalusia – because the creation of an entity that is the Galician Public Transport Company – could then copy Andalusia – and we set up 7 million euros. It's possible, it's real, they're taking it forward in Andalusia. But we mobilized 70 million euros for health care. You increase 70 million to pay for the new Vigo hospital cannon. We want 10 million euros, which is also not much, to terminate the privatised contract of Vigo hospital; we want to do new health centres; we want to do, which are broken down – as you know – high-resolution centers; we also want to extend the Montecelo Hospital, in Pontevedra, and not go to make the other way of Mount Carrasco, where you are very interested in Pontevedra; we want to improve the management plans in several health areas; we also want to ensure that, as we do, games for the necessary replacements of personnel, absolutely necessary. We also do this in the field of education: subjects for staff, the creation of new centres, also rural research centres, essential; games for EUR 3 million to improve the freeness of textbooks, to improve school meals, to open dining rooms in the summer, which is autonomous competence, Counsellor, it is not of the mayors of the rebel cities, it is of this house, of Parliament and of the Council of Galicia. We just want school transport to be improved; we want more resources for eco-innovators, so that children and children can eat local products, and not what is happening with the privatization of school dining; we want a food shortage detection plan; we want a EUR 2 million programme for diversity in education. And we also want games that are essential, for example, for energy self-sufficiency, for agroforestry counseling. We can't fix population in the countryside if we don't do this, Counselor. We push for 10 million euros, just so we don't leave the countryside. We also want that sea insurance that the mariners ask us – who's defending the comrade Juan Fajardo – for when there are toxins or when they can't get tow, because a insurance that we fixed at 10 million euros. We want – I told you – to say floating, Counselor. It became clear to me already: Mr. Javier Aguilera said no. At least we know something. We want breaks to clean up the creeks. We want them to undo the barbarity they did in Ferrol with EDAR on Priority.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-23-DSPG130.u67	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-23-DSPG130.u68	I'm going to finish. We want a social wage programme of EUR 42 million. We want a game that we incorporate – it would be interesting to admit it – of 20 million euros to promote electric self-consumption. Finally, Counsellor, we have an alternative. But the important thing is that we have or have no choice, the important thing is that this debate gives you exactly the same,
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-23-DSPG130.u69	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-23-DSPG130.u70	They don't care about radishes, they don't care. On the contrary, some of the measures of the Alternative Left Galeg, like some of the measures of the other opposition groups, should at least be estimated, because – I insist – we are not crazy and crazy. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-23-DSPG130.u71	Thank you very much, Mrs. Díaz. The Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr González Santín has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-23-DSPG130.u72	Thank you, President. The main difference or fundamental difference between left-wing policies and right-wing policies is how public funds are applied to different governments. These different ways of applying are expressed in budget laws. Therefore, this Budget Act that we are discussing today will be the one that marks the policies that will be made in 2016. This budget sells to us by the Government as an expansive budget that devotes most of it to social spending, something that you will really see that is not so. This is a continuous budget that aims for an increase that you really have for last year, but it's a small climb, but it's actually more than enough, and the only thing you answer are to the election prospects of the next day on December 20. This is a budget where the numbers don't match, I said it in my other intervention. And the only way to make them square is either by failing to meet the deficit or by not running games that are on paper. This is probably the last budget of this legislation and, therefore, the Galician Union has to show that things are going well and that from now on they'll get better. To see the outcome of the policies of the Galician Union there is nothing more than a comparison of what was before the arrival of Mr. Feijóo to the government and what is now: the number of unemployed has increased; the unemployment rate has increased by 58.7%; the number of unemployed, which has decreased by 12.4%, while in Spain it was done by half, 6.7%; membership of Social Security has been reduced; evictions have increased; public employees have lost purchasing power; workers who have not lost their jobs now have some poverty wages and a new term of "poor with employment" has been coined. And it increased the number of rich in Galicia, but, above all, it increased the number of poor, thus increasing the gap of inequality that exists in our community. And this is what took us to the various budgets that have been carried out so far. That is why the Socialist Group makes this cross-sectional amendment, to change the priorities of this budget and to make it a fairer budget and to spend more on those priority services for the Greeks, such as employment, health, education and social policies; all of them priorities of the Socialist Party. We will mobilise in this amendment more than 650 million euros, which we will be able to devote to these priorities. How are we gonna do this? For this will be done, on the one hand, by keeping as the Counsellor said in the morning the legality with regard to the law 2/2011, of budgetary discipline and financial sustainability, adopted by this Parliament. First of all, we propose an increase in income through a more progressive policy, which would involve additional revenues that we estimated at 300 million euros. For that we would do the following: We propose an increase between two and four points on the IRPF autonomous scale for incomes exceeding 60,000, 90,000 and 120,000. With this, we would make tax more progressive and pay more than we have; something that we advocate for the socialists. We also propose a reduction in the minimum exempt tax on wealth, so the minimum exemption would be reduced to EUR 350,000, excluding habitual housing, for a maximum value of EUR 300,000. I remind you, however, that with this measure we would have a tax with a minimum exemption higher than it was at the last stage of President Fraga. We understand that the Government of the State should be called upon to increase the tax rate on bank deposits and that it should be handed over to autonomous communities that have not established this tax, as is the case with Galicia. We also understand that a tax should be imposed on large areas, as is already the case in other autonomous communities, and that it is justified by their impact on land management. It is also necessary to improve collection management, reduce tax fraud, and improve the collection of income from Sergas and the Galego Institute of Housing and Soil, derived from the first of health services to private entities and the second from the sale of soil. And finally, but not least, it makes it necessary to modify the system of self-financing; a system that was a good one for Galicia at the moment, is currently hurting us. The new funding system had to be put in place, but the Government of the State failed to comply with the law and with the welcome of the German Government. We need our needs to be taken into account and resources transferred so that we can cope with our public services. There are more expensive public services than in other communities, such as the Madrid Community, where the population is younger and less dispersed. We want a new system based not on fiscal balances nor on any other distribution system that is made to satisfy some territory, but rather on a system based on solidarity between all of us. That must be the inspiring principle of our system of self-financing. Secondly, we propose a reduction in the unproductive expenditure of the Administration, which in these budgets we have quantified around EUR 350 million. Here we are asking for a reduction in the expenses of cabinet staff, of those who are unknown the number and in many cases the function they perform; also advertising expenses, expenses that often appear hidden in generic games and which is hardly justified for their need for public administration. We also believe that it can be improved in the management of ordinary operating costs, making these more rational, for example, with energy saving or reducing the work done by external companies. I'm thinking, for example, about the Galician workers of computer services, who are often with their arms crossed while their work comes from private companies. A gradual reduction in parallel administration and a reduction in non-material and contingency costs would also be necessary. With this reduction in unproductive expenditure and the increase in income I referred to earlier, we could dedicate this budget around 650 million euros to modify spending priorities, around 7.5 per cent. For the Socialist Group these new expenditure priorities would, of course, be to achieve more progressive budgets and to help people who need it most. We would focus our public spending on solving the problems that are most pressing to the Greeks and that this budget provides inadequately. The first problem that the Greeks have from our point of view is unemployment. We have more than 222,000 unemployed in Galicia today, according to data recently published by the Inem, while we take EPA data in the third quarter of 2015 we have 60,000 more unemployed since Feijóo is president and 129,000 less busy. With all this, Junta reached 209 million euros, less than half of what it was dedicated to in 2009, which was 421 million. What makes the recipient of this budget, i.e. the unemployed, has EUR 850 on their standstill, while in 2009 it was 2,500, i.e., two thirds of what they received at that time. Employment promotion programs have been reduced by half, employment promotion programs by 56%, and employment qualification by 80%. These policies, which are also leading to a strong drop in wages, which causes the loss of participation of wage income in our GDP. This lack of support in budgets for the fight against unemployment makes our boys also have serious problems finding a job. We have 61.9% of young people under 29 years of age who have no employment, and those with 63% have temporary contracts. Nor can one forget that there are 73,100 homes that have all their members in unemployment. These are the data and there is a need to activate policies to fight against unemployment first and secondly against job insecurity. That's why we propose to mobilise nearly 200 million euros more in an employment plan, to achieve in two years a reduction of 40,000 unemployed, mainly for youth, for women, for long-term unemployed, as well as for people with the most difficulty of insertion. Another of the major problems we have in Galicia is that we do not grow properly, and we need measures to boost economic growth. The Greek Government has for years been a strategy of economic recovery that has been set up as a mistake, which focuses its efforts on the development of strategic plans which, in fact, are more advertising and propaganda than realism. We're used to seeing industry budgets that despite the tricks employed hide a reduction of EUR 165 million over the year 2010, to just over 200 million for this year 2016. The result of these policies is that Galicia grows half as much as Spain's ensemble, and the German Government in these budgets once again forgets the needs of the Greek industry, being anecdotal to bet on wind farms and continuing with the policy of abandoning investments in renewable energy. These budgets bet very little on research and innovation, which keeps some levels of Ukraine or Turkey in Galicia, despite the increase in the shares of the Galician Innovation Agency. We cannot continue with budgets that do not bet on R & D+i, and Galicia cannot continue to devote only 0.86% of its GDP to this. That is why the Socialist Group is committed to encouraging research and development, as well as to dynamising the industrial sector and strengthening the sectors of special difficulty. Finally, it is also necessary in these budgets to increase funds for essential social policies and public services. With regard to health care, with the increase experienced in this exercise, the health budget is still 7% lower than it was in 2009 when Feijóo arrived at the government. This year the government will have to deal with the payment of 42 million euros for the canon of Vigo hospital. So if we add to this the EUR 35 million of the workers' salary recovery and the EUR 20 million that absorbs the privatization of various services, the real growth of the budget is half of what the Galician Union was advertising. We are concerned that in these budgets 29 million euros are missing from the special pharmacy programs and the departure for oncoholic drugs, while the budget for haemoderivatives is reduced from 18 to 2 million euros. For all this, we propose to double the real growth that these budgets have and that they are dedicated to improving certain games that are fundamental to us in public health, such as primary care, mental health, prevention and to regain the public character of Vigo hospital. With regard to education, with an increase of 100 million in budgets, these are still far below what we had in 2009; in particular, EUR 400 million, causing a reduction in our education system in these years. We demand the restoration of the teaching squares, of the conditions that the educational centers have, the replacement of the teaching material, overcoming the digital divide, ensuring the implementation of the basic FP, and that no child has to go to class without textbooks or school material. We want to know when those 1,000 squares will be convened that promised, and also what specialties, something necessary for the opponents who are preparing these squares. We want, ultimately, a quality education where no student has to leave his studies because his parents have no economic possibilities. We want public education and quality. With regard to language, these budgets relegate the Greek language and culture to poverty and to budgetary irrelevance. It is gruesome that we have an expansive budget and that a euro is not dedicated to the language, it is not a matter of priority for this government. Since the arrival of Feijóo, it has lost 56% of its budget, from 1.2% to 0.6% of its current budget. Much of this, in addition, is devoured by the City of Culture, which goes from 6.7 million in the 2015 budget to 9 for the next exercise. We have to make a determined bet on this language budget. As far as social policies are concerned, the Greek Government has never been interested in applying the Dependency Act, and that is noted. Not even claims from the State the 111 million euros that were cut into Royal Decree Law 20/2012. Galicia dedicates 88.67 euros against 101 euros of state average per person in dependence. Dependency waiting lists reached 41%, compared to communities like Asturian, which did not reach 10%. Since Mr. Feijó governor Galicia, more than 8,000 people who had recognized the dependency have died and could not be charged. They announce in these budgets that they will serve 10,000 more dependents, but only budget splits to meet 3,400 more. You've increased the coke by 40% on average, in some cases exceeding 400%. These budgets provide EUR 150 million less than in the 2009 budget for social protection and promotion. They estimate for 2016 600 users less at risk, something difficult to believe. Since 2009, 60 per cent of immigration services have been deducted and 40% of the elderly with disabilities. That is why we propose to increase budgets in social policies by EUR 190 million. Aid against energy poverty should also be included, which manages the Industry Council, which dedicates only 2.1 million euros to these aids, something certainly insufficient if we consider that 12,000 families are estimated to be living in trouble, 30,000 families without income and 73,100 families with all their members in unemployment. With regard to housing policy, they provide this budget with EUR 51 million, which, in relation to the 210th of 2009, denotes what concerns you about housing policy. So they're only going to spend 2.45 million euros on helping families who have problems, like the 2,000 that are expected to lose their home for the evictions. They also don't provide a euro for the rental plan, which only provides what comes from the state. Forget about the young people who need housing, the new family units, all the demands that exist today in Galicia with regard to housing.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-23-DSPG130.u73	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-23-DSPG130.u74	Yes, President, I'm done. We need to supply the housing budget to meet the needs of the Greek families. We also propose a territorial plan for land mobility, environmental restoration of fire-affected areas and recovery of affected habitats. And, finally, we also provide EUR 3 million for the Board of Auditors, so that it can carry out the new functions it has assigned to it in relation to the fight against fraud. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-23-DSPG130.u75	Thank you very much. Mr. Valeriano Martínez García has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-23-DSPG130.u76	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. During the morning session we were able to contrast different models of budgetary policy between the Government and the opposition groups. In this afternoon session, I will explain why we understand that the vast majority of the transversal amendments that present all opposition groups, except one, cannot be accepted. The amendments, generally speaking, are inadmissible in practice for two main reasons. One more year, opposition groups are trying their amendments to have more income. But once again, they do it to a large extent either through the increase in taxes or by formulating the creation of others that we don't have the possibility to implement. The second main reason for not being able to accept your proposals is that they reduce splits that are necessary to develop the actions that this government has planned. I'm not even going to say there's any reasonable suggestion, but their inclusion is invalid because, if I accepted it, I could rule out any of the actions that we consider indispensable. I'd try to explain. I'm telling the BNG voicer that he wants to have more income but with measures we can't agree on. For example, it makes a raise in the wealth tax of between 25% and 165%. In this regard, I remind you that in the 2013 Budget Act we have already increased the scale by 20%, which means that we are currently among the communities with a higher taxation in Spain. Besides, the lower the minimum exemption, this tax would no longer be just for the rich and would affect the middle class, and this would have a very negative impact on consumption, as I tried to explain in the morning. We have the opposite objective: lower taxes to middle and low classes. With regard to the IRPF, I want to tell you that we believe that the proposal by the Government of Greece is better adjusted to reduce and redistribute the tax burden by increasing the income available to families, thus promoting savings and investment, and improving the competitiveness of our companies. On succession tax you don't agree on the downside we propose. We obviously do – now that we can – and what we want is that the Greeks are among those who pay less for this tax. In addition, his position allows me to see the trend of incoherent, when you were part of the Government in 2009 and those who partially eliminated taxpayer taxation by this tax, decreasing the collection, then, between 40% and 45%. Then the posture was right and now, however, it is totally the opposite. And again – as is customary in recent years – you again propose a tax that exacerbates the economic, social and environmental impact that causes the large commercial areas. I remind you that your legality is very doubtful, because it can be considered that through this tribute there is an unjustified restriction on the right to establish the common market, or even to be considered unlawful public aid. So we have a lagoon there wide enough not to come in at this moment or even propose it to us. Even without taking this into account, it could have a deterrent effect on certain investments by large commercial distribution groups in Galicia. And it is also very likely that these companies will transfer the highest cost of their establishment to consumers through a higher price of their products. What's more surprising is that you argue that you protect small trade. To show, a button: you don't have to remember too much or go too far, because with you in the Government I don't know if you remember that the number of square meters of the large surfaces has doubled. However, their message is always to double large surfaces when they rule, and when they don't rule suddenly interest passes through the trade by the often. There's something that doesn't really match the argument. And what about the bank deposit tax? I repeat that this tax cannot be created by our autonomous community, because the central government has already fixed it for the entire state. And in addition, as Galicia had requested, the collection is distributed to communities depending on where the headquarters is located or the branches of the taxpayers in which they keep the funds from third parties recorded. In fact, I remind you that this year Galicia will receive EUR 17 million for this tax. And let's go now to the minorities, which also have problems to carry out. They ask for reduced staff spending – something we've already commented on in the morning. The Union now spends much less on high office and possible personnel than the previous government used to spend, the figures are terribly clear. In high office we currently spend 45% less than in the 2009 budget of the Bipartite. Or, if you prefer – as I said today in the morning – you spend 82% more and keep filling your mouths about high-ranking minorities. As is also the case with prospective cabinet staff, which is 35% lower at the moment than the last year of the Bipartite; or, if you prefer, 54% more spent on you in 2009. As always, they ask to lighten the cost in high office and eventual staff, but when they have the possibility of ruling, they do everything the opposite and they know. [[Murmurs.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the BNG, they want to reduce games for the construction of health centres as well. I'm telling you, we don't agree. [[Murmurs.]] But if you don't want a health center to be done, tell us exactly where the place doesn't feel good if we do a health center and please explain it to the neighbors of that place. Another battery of amendments cannot be accepted because we would be left without resources to meet the routine maintenance of the Administration or even have a significant deterioration in the care of the administrator; and those who intend to reduce costs in sections where we are already for today less than half, of half, of the previous government. I'm going to give you some data that's already up-to-date: spending on office material, for example, we're going to drop it by over 43% in 2009, or, what's the same, spending 4.7 million euros less than in its stage. At the expense of protocol care we decreased by more than 53%; at advertising and propaganda costs – as previously mentioned by another speaker – we reduced it by 65%; at meetings, conferences and courses by 64%; at the cost of locomotives by almost 53%. I could go on with more examples, but I think they're enough. What's surprising is that it looks a lot like it now and not when you spend half as much as this government in this kind of expense. In addition, some of their proposals for minorities, if accepted, would in practice leave inoperative services such as maritime rescue or even the Infrastructure Agency. Nor can we change the fate of other games financed by finalist funds, such as educational and cultural infrastructures, with the ERDF; or those related to the Sea Council with the European Maritime and Fisheries Fund. I'll start by telling the AGE voicer that I'm going to be quite repetitive about what the government said in previous years. But it is that much of your amendments – with all due respect – are a cut and take other exercises. Of course, we could not increase the expenditure ceiling authorized by this Parliament in 200 million euros financed by indebtedness, it would be illegal. It is not possible to increase non-financial revenues, as they ask, by issuing debts, as they request. Besides, it wouldn't be a little more coherence, because every day they criticize that we have too much debt and propose to increase it by nothing more and nothing less than 200 million euros. And another year they practically press their tax proposals. As anecdote – it serves as anecdote – in some amendments they haven't even changed the year, they put 2015 instead of 2016; even in one amendment they refer to 2014. So, in your revenue increase proposal they propose to increase the same 40 million euros in 2014... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-23-DSPG130.u77	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-23-DSPG130.u78	...and 2015 for IRPF and heritage. In IRPF they formulate a tariff which implies raising taxes to all Greeks, except for those in the first stage. We, however, obviously want to lower the IRPF to 98.5% of the Greeks, especially to low and medium incomes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-23-DSPG130.u79	Mr. Fajardo, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-23-DSPG130.u80	For the rise in heritage, I insist that we've gone up a 20 per cent scale three years ago and we're among the communities with a higher taxation. They claim to improve collection management with the same amount as 2014 and 2015, 12 million euros. The fight against tax fraud is a priority, and then, in response to another amendment, another group, I will refer to the positive data that we are achieving. And again they demand the same 52 million euros of 2014 and 2015 in the environmental damage tax of the corred water. This proposal does not take account of the nature of a burden, because it is an environmental tax, a tax of an extra fiscal nature for the correction and compensation of the environmental impact. So it's not a tax charge where it's changed solely for purposes of collection. And we follow with the same amendment of previous years for the deposit tax, the same 10 million euros of 2015. They also repeat the same 4 million for a large-scale commercial tax. In these two cases, I repeat the answer given to the BNG voicer, and I repeat the same 1.5 million for a high-contained beverage tax in sugar. In this case, and without knowing their configuration, it would probably end up affecting consumers, assimilating this to an indirect tax, which he so criticized, too, in his intervention. And we're going with the last copy in tax matters, the same $500,000 for an empty floor tax. This would also be dubious legality, according to a recent ruling by the High Court of Justice of the Basque Country, and I also remind you that these types of apartments already pay for IRPF by charging incomes, so we would be recording the same fact that is taxable by two taxes, in principle, distinct. And the only difference, finally, even if it's only in number, last year they were asking for a reduction in tax earnings of EUR 30 million, and this year they raise it to EUR 80 million. I sincerely expected something more rigorous, because the proposed tax measures are practically grounded, as I have just reported, those of the 2014 and 2015 budgets, keeping almost always the same amounts. It does not seem to apply much rigour in estimates, since circumstances and the macroeconomic environment are different from each of the three years I have just pointed out. Let's also go to the games they want to diminish. In the vice-presidentship they say they increase the financial expenditure 62 million euros, when it is 62,000 euros, if we no longer differentiate between millions and thousands! They propose in the Presidency an amendment which takes more money from that section, and makes technical mistakes because transfers for the financing of agencies cannot be reduced unless they are adjusted to the budget expenditure of the receiving body itself. They do it in Amtega, the Galicia-Europe Foundation and the City of Culture, and I do not continue with more examples for a lot of time. The PSdEG spokesman says we must strengthen the fight against fraud. We agree, and so I honestly think we're doing it. It's one of the priorities, along with the attention of the taxpayer, as you know, of the creation of our Galician Tax Agency. Only in the last year of 2014 did Atriga detect 181 million euros in undeclared debt, which was an increase of 20.6 % compared to 2013. And if we refer to inspection records between 2005 and 2009, minutes were raised for 31.1 million euros, and between 2009 and 2015 for 159.2 million euros. I don't think the comparison is going to last much longer. The average amount of each record was, at that time, EUR 10,380 when you ruled, and EUR 38,964 with us in the Government, more than triple; I think the data speak for themselves. On his proposal from the IRPF, he assumed an increase in collection in respect of the planned by the Greek Government – that is, if I have to give him the reason – around 13 million euros, so we believe that they would be put in the hands of the citizens less than 13 million to increase his available income, increase and encourage consumption. I repeat that to the other groups, we consider our proposal much more appropriate, which benefits 98.5% of the Greek contributors. On the wealth tax, in 2013 we agreed with you a 20% tax increase, equaling our taxation at that time, and at this point, with Andalusia. But it is surprising that now in the communities where they govern – Aragon, Valencian Community or Balearic Community – where they have the capacity to do so, they do not ask for the minimum exemption to EUR 350,000; but in Galicia they do ask for it from the opposition. His criterion changes according to the government's position in the opposition, and I think we should have a little more coherence among all of them. As for the tax on bank deposits or large surfaces, I've repeated it twice, I think for the three it was going to answer that at the time it had spoken about the BNG voicer. As for games that want to be reduced. In its reduction of credits they reach the point of eliminating socially demanded and necessary actions, such as aid to avoid the costs of electrical supplies to vulnerable families, or aid for payment of part of the electricity bill, through Galicia's social electric ticket. It also removes some of this kind of game from the Galician Nationalist Block. Do you really defend yourself not to help pay for the light to whom you most need it? It is surprising that they make an amendment to reduce the resources of the Galician Social Services Agency, which are used to finance the maintenance of children's schools. I hope it's a mistake, because I wouldn't understand that you didn't want to keep this kind of facility in good condition. They also have their inconsistencies, to set an example. They propose very important reductions at the Institute of Territory Studies, which is the competent agency in the field of landscape, and, on the other hand, they miss a greater budget for the development of the landscape law or call for the return of the budgets of the vice-presidential section by a supposed absence of funds, and then in its amendment of the transfer of credits between sections, not one euro is incorporated into the budgets of this section, but they diminish them by 3.8 million euros, even affecting essential games, such as the functioning of the Justice Administration. There are also examples of amendments that they do because they don't look at the budget in detail, as in which they claim that work placement programs of women victims of gender violence disappear. I would like to clarify to you that the alleged disappearance is not such, but a simple shift of concept from 444 to 48102, which, on the other hand, is accompanied – as I spoke today – by a growth of 100% of this game, from 325,000 euros to 650,000. And others, like other groups, propose a series of casualties in sections that affect the normal functioning of the care services to the citizen, or affect the provision of social services, such as the costs of maintenance contracts for centres dependent on the administration of care to the dependence or on the promotion of autonomy. They even question a €600,000 share of the population dynamisation campaign program, when the demographic problem is one of the major challenges we have as a country. And as a last example, although I could quote some more, the minorities that formulated in the field of youth meant in practice that almost disappearing from the games that support programming of activities that takes place in Galicia's Youth Union. I'm done, ladies. In short, we are faced with proposals that are intended to increase income or are unreal, because they cannot be considered viable and carry into practice, or they demand taxes that we cannot create, or others that are under discussion, or even rise to taxes that we already have among the highest in Spain, as is that of heritage. And in terms of changing expenditure priorities, they reduce essential items for the administration's operation and the provision of services, they change items that are finalised by European funds and can only be used to finance actions such as those already planned by the Government of Greece in budgets, or they suggest reducing shares in which this Government has already declined by half in recent years, as I said earlier, almost 60% or more than 60%. In any case, they are proposals that, either because they are irrefutable or by withdrawing items necessary for the action of the Government, we cannot consider them viable to be included in the draft budgets submitted by this Government. With the policies carried out by the Government in the last seven years, we have already had an administration in which we have eliminated the superfluous and grounded in the correction of inefficiencies and inefficiencies, which has also been there, so the matches, in our understanding, are properly dimensioned and according to the real needs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-23-DSPG130.u81	Thank you, Counselor. The turn of the non-amendant parliamentary groups. Joint Group, Mrs. Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-23-DSPG130.u82	Good afternoon to all and to all. Well, the councilman now made it clear. I think it was the clearest of all this debate. You just said that the opposition's amendments are not viable for two reasons: one, because you can't increase income, because you disagree with raising taxes, capital and higher income; and they're also against new taxes that rise from pollution to large surfaces or other types of activities. So of course they don't want to. But why don't they want to? He says it in the second part, and he says that because they reduce games also necessary for the projects of this Government, not for the projects that interest this country or the social majority of this country, but for the projects that interest this Government in doing its neoliberal policies on the right and against the rights of the social majority. That's why, since you were so clear, obviously I'll be clear too. I think your budgets are entrepreneurship in the current situation. And I'm not surprised that they repeat amendments from year to year, because the policies of the Union are the same, and they continue to punish them, so it's necessary that we repeat one, and another, and again, not only in matters of budgets, but in matters of initiatives, slaughtering, trying to raise awareness of the People's Party with the problems of the social majority. So I will support the amendments of the opposition groups, because they defend the interests of that social majority. And we can talk about some of the examples you've also talked about. On the subject of the woman. There is no policy for the recovery of female employment, a question they already have in the amendments to the opposition. Nor is it for the prevention of gender-based violence and for the protection of women and children and their daughters who are victims of gender-based violence. There are no dwellings for these women, the disposition of these women. There are no wages available to these women. There is no policy that will improve the lives of these women, children and children. But if we talk about minors, they don't appear in the games; there's no special attention to minors, no!, with all the problems that these children and children have endured, and as I say, no budget is even collected in which you can dedicate those recommendations that the People's Valor himself makes as essential, necessary and urgent. As for justice, budgets are not going to respond to the collapse of the judges, all the judges, from the Social Court, the Family Court, the Gender Violence Court, which, by the way, we would have had to have the family trial and gender violence in all the judicial districts, all the judicial headquarters. But there's no budget either that's going to answer the problem of the judicial archives and the digitization of the stories of justice they have. Dependencies. Depending, of course, there are no matches for something that has been claimed here for years. One: improving home help, especially in rural areas. There are hundreds, thousands of people in rural areas, essentially, so older people, basically, and therefore women over 50, who are tied to the house taking care of the dependents and who don't get any help for their rest that allows them to live a life of minimal freedom or have a few moments of leisure. Also the cuts or lack of attention on something exactly for rural people, that home hospitalization that improves the quality of life of dependent people and also caregivers. Don't take it into account and let these women care for what they don't care about and what they're going to be doing -- after doing a social service like this that should cover the Government -- poorer women. Nor can we talk about the adapted transport or day centres. Lots of needs not collected in budgets. As for the emergencies we were talking about this morning. Of course, I support all those amendments that are aimed at ensuring the protection of our natural environment and at establishing truly coordinated emergency services, where there is no precarious work, where all workers and workers contain with the PPE needed to carry their work forward and, above all, to have decent working conditions. Just like public staff who are not recognized for their salary debt and their rights, selling now as a great achievement to return half the extra pay. It's really to piss off. It's not a favor, it's a debt they have, and it's time they pay it, but that they've paid it all, not just part of it. And that staff rest in all public services, because it's what condemns families to having worse health care, worse access to education, public services or justice. As for the industry, apart from the drones, which now seems to be the mother of the lamb and that the drones are going to solve life in this country, we'll still really look at military activity, because I don't think they're really for civil activity. But we're not talking about anything, as we've said here, no longer about the floating dam, no more about the naval sector. You don't think I'm dead, they're in a hurry to bury him, they're in a tremendous hurry to bury the naval sector, especially the public. Take him to Cádiz, because Galicia, the German Government, doesn't want him. Obviously, they want to load the Fene yard by privatizing it and no longer being a yard to become something quite different. But there's no indication that there's no sign of boosting an industry linked to primary sectors, such as the sea and the land. And, of course, the dairy sector is still abandoned. A fiscal policy, as already mentioned, unfair and regressive. As far as employment measures are concerned, employment budgets do not allow quality employment to be recovered, they only create and continue to create that possible, precarious job with poor wages that... you are the great creators of the figure of the poor worker. From franchise to here there were no poor workers until you ruled. You're the great achievement you have, turning the working class into a impoverished class. Precarity, lack of quality in employment and lack of policies to return our youth. As for demography, there is no part of the check-and-baby that guarantees a population recovery policy; there are no measures or budgets to meet the services needed for children, to meet the health needs, education and reconciliation of working and family life, which is simply left in an enunciation, without more. He draws attention, and I also support these amendments, to the amendments addressed to the interest of the People's Party to cancel as soon as possible bodies as, for example, the ESC. Because they don't like it, and I wouldn't be surprised if they could also charge you with the office of the People's Valedor, because everything that defends the interests of the social majority or criticizes their austere policies...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-23-DSPG130.u83	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-23-DSPG130.u84	... –I've finished, President – they don't deserve your respect. We can continue to talk – time is up – about the increase in public-private collaboration, the lack of environmental protection, which also shuts up, and appears in the new Land Law Project, the abandonment of transport, the bet on private transport, the large high-speed routes, and the total and absolute abandonment of our country's territorial cohesion with quality public transport. As for housing, it is also found in the Law of the Land, there is a real disgust and disinterest in social housing, and, in fact, in the Law of the Land, it is recalled that the only interest, the calculation of social housing that will be built is based on demand. They don't take into account the people who live in an insurrection, nor the people who are in social exclusion without housing, who, of course, will not approach the council to ask for, request, a social housing, because their problems are too big and need, precisely, the support of the Administration to guide these requests. It's over time, I'm sorry that we have to endure another year these policies that go against the social majority.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-23-DSPG130.u85	Finish it, Mrs. Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-23-DSPG130.u86	Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-23-DSPG130.u87	Popular Group, Mrs Rodríguez Arias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-23-DSPG130.u88	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen. Counsellor, this morning's debate made it clear that the opposition is suspending the budgets of the Galician Union for 2016, which is supposed to sum up, because there is no economic recovery and because the budgets presented by the Galician Union are lies. That's why they asked for their return. The second part of this debate is the transversal amendments by the opposition groups, where they supposedly demonstrate that it is possible to make other budgets, where they place their economic manual for the recovery of Galicia, which, by the way, are the same recipes of the past. Does the opposition manual for Galicia's economic recovery consist of? Fundamentally on three issues: firstly, the increase in taxes to the Greeks by applying new taxes of dubious legality; secondly, the reduction of shares necessary to provide public services to the citizen; and thirdly, the increase in indebtedness. Yes, you listen carefully, increasing Galician indebtedness. The opposition proposes to raise taxes to the Greeks, the Government proposes to lower taxes to middle classes and families with less income, specifically 140 million more euros at the disposal of citizenship. The opposition proposes more tax burden and less income available to citizens. The German Government proposes less tax burden and more income available to citizens. That's why I'd like you to clarify what you mean when you propose that you pay more than you have, because you're proposing that you pay more than all the Greeks and the Greeks... yes, that you pay more than all the Greeks and the Greeks. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And look at the property tax. The Socialist Party estimates that 35 million could be increased to raise to 35 million, BNG to 35 million, too, and AGE to 20 million. Your proposal affects the Greek middle class. Galicia is already the autonomous community, as the councillor said, where more money is being paid for the property tax, and you want to increase what is to be paid to the Greeks and the Greeks for the estate tax. A tax which in Galicia only taxes the highest incomes, only affects declarants with a wealth of more than 700,000 euros. But you're still with the same canteen, which is the progressives who want to charge more taxes to those who have less, when their proposals are actually increasing taxes to all the Greeks and the Greeks. In relation to IRPF. What the German Government does is to lower the IRPF's autonomous tariff. 98.5% of the reporting persons up to 380 euros per year of savings per declarant. What do you want? So increase taxes, increase the collection by the IRPF between 20 and 33 million euros. Is it succession and prayer tax? After the debate of the state of Autonomy, where the president of the Galician Union announces that they will not pay this tax of up to 400,000 euros per heir, who will pay zero inheritance and grants taxes of 99% of the heirs in Galicia, you, the Galician Nationalist Block, what they want is to eliminate this zero tax reduction in successions and prayers, and to collect 42 million euros. And you think that's your tax progressive policy. In connection with bank deposits. Well, you don't agree to this tax either. Because look, the Socialist Group estimates that 35 million more euros could be collected, AGE suggests that 10 million more can be collected and BNG 115 million more. You know that it is now a state tax, you know that the German Parliament has approved that this tax had been handed over to Galicia, you know that the Government has committed itself to giving this tax to autonomous communities and that Galicia is going to receive 17 million euros for this tax. As far as tax on large surfaces is concerned, neither do you agree to the calculation of what this tax could have been charged in Galicia. PSOE 18 million, AGE 4 million, BNG 30 million. [[Murmurs.]] And then, as the councilman says, present them saying or claiming that it's to protect small trade, when we're talking about you in a single legislation, they authorized nothing but 16 new large surfaces in Galicia. By the way, the autonomous communities that decided to record the large surfaces are moving back. The European Commission is not prepared to continue a tax that they consider discriminatory and not conform to Community law. And you in Galicia want to implement the tax on large surfaces. Regarding the improvement of tax and tax management and the fight against tax fraud, I inform you that in 2014 Galicia Tax Agency has detected more than 181 million euros. You're talking about improving collection management between 11 and 12 million euros. A special plan has been developed that has allowed to deepen debt by EUR 50.7 million. And Galicia is the community with more effective collection of taxes. On the other hand, you propose to lower unproductive expenses. And I'm going to put just three examples of what you want to reduce in these so-called unproductive expenses. First of all, cabinet staff. Both the BNG and the Socialist Party demand that the departure be reduced. Well, as counsellor said, 45% less in high office and 35% less in office personnel. Advertising and propaganda, 65% less than was spent in 2009. In parallel administration, 97 bodies have now been removed and we are in an annual savings of 60 million euros. And then they talk about the control of indebtedness in Galicia. On the part of all parliamentary groups, without exclusion, we have been criticizing Galician debt, the debt of our community, repeated by active and passiveness that Galicia is the second autonomous community in which the public debt has been reduced since 2008, that Galician debt/GDP ratio is five points below the average of the autonomous communities. And here we wanted to ask a question, why in the morning some parliamentary group criticizes the debt of the autonomous community and in the afternoon presents a cross-cutting amendment to increase Galician debt by 200 million euros? It's a matter that you've been doing for years, and we don't understand why. [[Applause]] They tell us why they don't agree with Galicia's debt, which is aimed at social policies, health and education, and in the evening you want Galicia's board to increase public debt by 200 million euros. Ladies and gentlemen, today we're better than a year ago, but recovery doesn't reach all of us, we're saying it in all of our budget appearances and debates. That's why social spending increases by 282 million euros: 103.3 million more for health care; 92 million more for education; 69.2 million more for social policies; 16.8 million more for combating unemployment. In addition, measures are being put in place against economic inequality in our community, a social plan against economic inequality with 20 million euros; the risk budget increases to 52.7 million euros; the dependency budget increases to 324.2 million euros; the budget increases to fight unemployment by 15%, namely 177.2 million euros. So follow your model. Of course, we don't share his model, which is shaped through these cross-sectional amendments, which can be summed up in more taxes and more debt to Galicia. We share the model proposed by the Government of Greece, which requires more budgets for people who need it, more budgets for families who have less resources, more budgets for dependency, more budgets for people in situations of social exclusion, more budgets for fighting unemployment. Of course, less taxes for citizens and more income available, that's our model. Of course, contrary to yours, we don't support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-23-DSPG130.u89	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Arias. Replica round of amending parliamentary groups. [[Pause.]] For the Galician Nationalist Block, Mrs. Pontón Mondelo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-23-DSPG130.u90	Thank you very much, Madam President. The truth is, Mrs. Rodríguez Arias, you have a lot of lying ability, because you come here and tell us...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-23-DSPG130.u91	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-23-DSPG130.u92	Come here, and I'll explain why, if the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party are to let me speak. Well, I'm going to explain why he comes here to lie; he comes here to tell us that the People's Party are the champions of lowering taxes, and that's a greater lie than Santiago's cathedral. Why? Look, the People's Party went up, for example, taxes that paid all the Welsh and Welsh through water through the water canon; the People's Party went up taxes that paid all the Welsh and Welsh through that tax on hydrocarbons; the People's Party went up what paid everyone when they had a disease, with everything that refers to access to public health; the People's Party increased the VAT. And even the People's Party introduces some change in the IRPF tax that makes those people who have income – from those who speak of them – of the middle class will have to pay more for their IRPF. So don't come here to repeat slogans that are also liars, because they have nothing to do with reality. And the PP – you expressed it very well here – is clearly defending the interests of the large commercial areas, is defending the interests of the great capital, but not the interests of the social majority of our country, which is in a really serious situation and there are many people who are going through very bad at this moment, in the face of an absolutely triumphal speech coming here that is already the crisis overcome. Of course, that's not the reality. And you have to have – I think – a little more solid arguments in defending things. Why can't the Galician Board implement new taxes? That you didn't explain it at any time. Why can't the Galician Union impose a tax on large commercial surfaces? You came here as a defender of the large commercial areas, not of the interests, for example, of the small trade in this country, which is going through a very bad time and which during the Feijóo governments has destroyed a very important part of our commercial fabric. Which is fundamental in terms of employment, but also in terms of what kind of towns, what kind of cities we want to build in our country, and which has had a very strong impact on the destruction of jobs in Galicia. So if you don't create this kind of tax, it's because the People's Party doesn't want to do it, not because legally it's not possible to carry it forward. You also have a very curious conception of what middle and low classes are, because they're here worried because we're making a change in property tax to lower the exempt types to 300,000 euros of catastrophic value. So when we talk about that figure, we don't know what the conception or how much of the goods you think the workers in this country have. Well, of course, we've introduced greater progress by making these kind of changes. And if you read our amendments you'd see as we do we're going down the lowest incomes in the IRPF and what we're doing is increasing the rates for higher incomes with a tax that we think would be much more fair, though we know that the adjustment that can be made from Galicia in this tax is small, because most of the regulation of that tax is in the state. We're aware of that, but we believe that we can introduce greater progress which means that this criterion is applied that they're actually contributing more than those incomes they have more. The grave thing is that here neither the councilman nor the spokeswoman of the People's Party have given any kind of argument and come here – I believe – with the changed foot in this debate. If the problem is where we're reducing, we can get to a transaction, we can make changes, but that's not the problem. The problem is that you are voting here against spending more resources to fight unemployment and create jobs; you are voting against allocating more resources to health care, education and social policy; you are voting against that we have EUR 19 million more for the sanitation of our rivers; you are voting against that we have more resources to fight against rejections, more resources, really, to prioritize a social policy of truth and not the consumption of cuts, which you are doing. Because, look, in these budgets – which in theory are expansive, but we already know they are not – the average of what increases education and health is below...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-23-DSPG130.u93	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-23-DSPG130.u94	...from the growth of global budgets. Therefore, there is no recovery in relation to the clippings that have been operated on for the last six years. There's the consolidation of a policy that has only brought about more injustice, more inequality, privatization and a very serious problem of youth emigration, which they don't want to recognize or face. Of course we're contrasting different models, theirs, which is that of a country that is condemning the disappearance, and ours, which is that of a country that does not resign to that destiny. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-23-DSPG130.u95	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Parliamentary Group of the Left Galician Alternative. Mrs. Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-23-DSPG130.u96	Counselor, I don't know how ashamed you don't feel of going up here to tell the Greeks and the Greeks that they won't accept, not even formally, an amendment from the opposition; I would worry. [[Murmurs.]] But there is evidence that this is democracy, as you understand it, that is absolutely a real roll, that is democracy for you. Not even formally for a makeup operation they have the boldness to come here and say, because we're going to accept an amendment to, at least, conceal. Not even that. I don't know – I insist – how it doesn't fall in shame, because you, with that attitude, and those who are going to click the button here and those who are going to press the button, make this debate useless; of course, it's the message they send out. So you keep it that way. Second question. Counsellor, we're growing a lot in Galicia, but I'll tell you again – and it's the second time I ask you again, and you've done it right now Mr. Santín – that explains to us, whenever you want – I'm also like Mr. Beers, having a coffee, Mr. Counsellor – why is the negative differential growing in our country? Why does Galicia grow half as much as the state average? Counselor, what are you doing wrong? Tell us why we grew up in the state at 3.1% and here at 1.8%. I think you don't even have to... Am I lying, Counselor? It's a public data, it's a public data!, Counselor, explain to us why, because we shall have the right to know. And, of course, they show that they're doing something terribly wrong. Third, Counsellor, look, this is your social policy, you know this, it's a welfare center located in the city of Coruña, it's next to the meeting point. All right? That's his social policy. And I'm not lying, we have several photos, we can illustrate it. So, this is their social policy, okay, so it's better that they're trying to do things right, because they're really bad at social policy. That's 8 out of 10 euros is already clear after the budget cut that's not only a lie, it's a fake and more than a fake. Look, Counselor, if I read you the pages of this text that you say is your budget proposal, that is indeed cut and paste, cut is glued. I can read you, Title II, "Function expenses," cut and paste; precepts exactly what they say...; is that they don't change a coma, Mr. Counsellor, cut and paste. That's cut and stick. But, look, now that Mr. Rueda is standing, he's tired of listening to me, in Justice cut and paste, and I don't know, but it's a funny thing, really, tremendous. A grace that is of a height its..., tremendous! Look, Mr. Rueda, the budget of Justice, three consecutive years, and the Judicial Office – from which we are going to speak in the ordinary plenary tomorrow – say 40,650 euros, so every day, every year. Mr. Rueda knows well. I'm going to give you more examples, for example, of the game you play for free justice, three consecutive years in the same game, Counselor. That's cut and stick. But, look, I'm also going to talk to you about poverty, cooperation, the Vice-President's programme, each and every year, the same thing. That's a cut and stick, Counselor, with a huge difference, that you have the ability to change this country, to rule, and we're in opposition, that's the difference. You do practice a cut and paste, you don't even keep your ways to get a little imagination. We already told him when he started the budgetary debate that they had no ideas, that they were exhausted, that I am a dead government, completely dead in political terms, without any doubt. And look, Counselor, the only thing that has increased taxes in this country was the People's Party. And that of the middle classes... the poet Benedetti was talking about the "leave" classes, and it's more than questionable about the existence of the middle classes. But look, the only ones who increase in those so-called middle classes the taxes are you, through indirect taxes. And Mrs. Marta Rodríguez, I respect her – I told her – because we're never going to agree on tax matters. You don't believe in taxes, you're radical liberals, and the problem is that when you reduce taxes, what you're doing is brushing public services. When they reduce taxes, they're telling the children and the children of the workers that they're not going to have decent public schools. Yes, Mr. Puy, of course it is. When we cut down, we lowered public services...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-23-DSPG130.u97	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-23-DSPG130.u98	Or how do you do then, Mr. Puy? How do you do it? Through the foundations of Amancio Ortega? That's your model. That's not our model. Giving the R+D+i to Ortega Amancio? That's your model, not ours. And I'm done. Of course, it's rather sad that we're up to December, entered, discussing sections and amendments for you to pass the roll. That's their democracy, but we'll keep doing our work.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-23-DSPG130.u99	Thank you, Mrs. Díaz. Socialist Parliamentary Group. Mr. González Santín.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-23-DSPG130.u100	Thank you, President. Well, Counsellor, you said that the amendments of the parliamentary groups are repeated; so, man, for some reason it will be, you have to ask why, because if you look at those who accept us we do not repeat them. And by the way, the budgets, if you take those of the past few years, are chronic; changing the councils that have been modified. Then I don't know if you know what to see the ball in your eyes and not the beam in your own eye, because that's where the shots go. With regard to the IRPF, you told me, and I recognized, that it had an increase of 13 million euros. But you said – if I didn't understand it wrong – that money must be left in the hands of the citizens. Look, I've only touched the IRPF table with incomes of over 60,000 euros. In particular, we have modified 60, 90 and 120,000 euros or more. That, of course, we already know which hands you want to vote on, in the hands of citizens who earn more than 60, 90 and 120,000 euros, of others not. With regard to property tax, which you said was that criticism was that we didn't do it in the communities that we ruled, and Mrs. Arias said we were attacking the middle classes. Home!, Mrs. Arias, I classes half 350,000 euros plus 300,000 of usual housing, I don't know what you consider to be middle class, I recommend you go down the street a little bit, because, of course, there aren't many of them. And I would also like to comment on what you said about the energy ticket. Yes, of course, we took off the energy ticket, but it wasn't a mistake, because we believe it should be paid by the Social Affairs Council, which is the one that should pay this energy ticket. And speaking of errors, look, we've all made mistakes, even you; as you well know, you've also made a mistake in the tax on heritage transmissions and there we have left it, and that's what the whole mechanism of Joine has in its service. So let's not talk about mistakes. I also have here another amendment, for example from the People's Party, which I bring here about anecdotics, which I did not find where they got this match, specifically number 2; I'm sure I'm wrong, but I repeat, we all make mistakes. What we have to look at is not the shapes, but the bottom of the amendments. And the bottom, you know what it takes? They lead us to unemployment in Galicia grew by 51% since 2009; the unemployment rate grew by 58%; the active population decreased by 4.3, while in Spain it did by 1.2; and the number of unemployed fell by 12.4% while in Spain by 6.7%. It also leads us to see that in the industrial sector we have lost more than 37,000 jobs and have been affected by all industrial sectors of Galicia: the naval, the wind, the renewable energy sector, and it will also affect the automotive sector now, with the Volkswagen crisis. You know that from auxiliary companies I haven't seen anything in this budget about it either. We haven't supported R+D+i for six years, and Igape, Counsellor, is not working, that's what we all see. In these years the quality of education has fallen, the number of teachers has fallen, the facilities of educational institutions have been abandoned, there is no teaching material in the classrooms, the children have lost the freeness of textbooks, now our children in schools have to eat catering, and there is also a large digital divide between schools in rural and urban. The basic FP Low Cost, a basic FP where they didn't invest a single cent of euro. They also imposed, and I say, a new funding plan for the Greek universities and cut off the scholarships, with which the boys who don't have their parents' incomes, middle and low incomes are no longer guaranteed to go to the university. Also in health care they made important cuts, they gave ERE to the most experienced professionals, those over 65 years of age; they dismantled primary care; mental health is abandoned; new health infrastructures are privatized and the old ones are forgotten, and they are not interested in public health at all. That's what we have in our country. And how are the people who need the most help from the government? Dependency waiting lists are 41%, when there are communities, for example the Asturian, where they don't reach 10%. There are 8,000 people who died who had recognized the dependency and who could not charge it. There's been a 40% increase in the payoffs on the dependency. Risga does not meet the needs of the population of Greece, despite its growth, and only reaches 30% of the people without resources. And 40% of the budget has been reduced to care for the elderly with disabilities, and also the centers where our elders are left behind and they don't provide decent assistance. They don't have a housing policy, there's no territorial management strategy. So, what did you do for our agricultural sector? We have the cheapest milk in Europe, 24 cents, and the Government has refused the request of the owners of the mediator; there is no land mobility policy; they have a forest policy appropriate to the interests of the eucalyptus, and the producers are subject to the dictatorship...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-23-DSPG130.u101	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-23-DSPG130.u102	... –Yes, finished, President – to the dictatorship of the distribution without the Government doing anything. We could say something about the fisheries sector. This is the country that leaves us its budgets, Mr. Counsellor, for the last few years, expensive, very expensive, even though you are reducing in pieces of advisers or electricity. And they say they've been making expanding policies now, policies that we've been demanding the opposition for six years. I don't think so, you've been making the policies you wanted for six years. You know what's changed, what's changed is that on the 20th there are some elections and these are probably the last budgets of this legislation. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-23-DSPG130.u103	Thank you very much. You have the floor to close the debate, Mr. Valeriano Martínez García.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-23-DSPG130.u104	Thank you again, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen. To conclude this debate, first of all, I would like to reiterate my gratitude for the speeches made by all parliamentary groups and their work during the parliamentary process. Despite the legitimate discrepancies, because each parliamentary group, as it is logical, formulates its budget plan, I insist on the need to work together at a crucial time for Galicia. We have to be able to sum up our efforts, because we have a last year of very important legislation, which has to be used to consolidate an economic situation which is fortunately much more favourable than three years ago, and also more positive than a year ago, when we had this same budget debate. I insist that we are in a much more desirable situation, but that if we face a situation significantly better than when we started legislation, the work is still not closed. In order to continue to consolidate economic growth and job creation, it is essential to have a realistic and rigorous budget, only in this way will it be useful for citizenship and it will only be able to implement and meet the objectives for which it is designed. And ladies and gentlemen, the budget we brought to the House is realistic, but also rigorous. And we take advantage of the opportunity for the first time in recent years to have more resources to take measures that we have always wanted to take, but that we have not been able to carry them forward so far. But by the next 2016, thanks to our most income, we can also make a more expanding policy, with the greatest fiscal downturn in history, which will improve citizens' available income and help strengthen consumer recovery; with more resources to promote growth and job creation, so that our GDP continues to grow more and more strongly and so that more and more Greeks and Greeks find a decent job; with unprecedented reinforcement in recent years of productive investment that will facilitate the completion and initiation of new projects and will also help job creation; and with a global package of social measures that strengthen those that we already have and that make Galicia an almost ideal place for our children and our elders. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, Galicia is today the most institutionally stable territory. Galicia is today a solvency community, which is responsive to its payment commitments. Galicia is today a reliable autonomy that generates trust and is attractive to investment, as they are manifesting in recent weeks, in a unanimous manner, public and private bodies. And Galicia, of which we feel terribly proud, exercises its self-government because it has financial autonomy and makes its decisions only thinking about the well-being and future of citizenship. [[Applause]] The collective effort of the Greeks has allowed us to travel through the toughest years of the history of autonomy with many difficulties, but in better conditions than the vast majority of autonomy. I am convinced that today any community would be delighted to present the balance that Galicia can present and offer. But in no way do we consider this enough. That's why this Government wants to help consolidate the full and fair economic recovery, with these budgets meeting all needs and fighting inequality, so that all Greeks can see their quality of life improved next 2016. They are – and I repeat again – budgets designed for people with less taxes and more investment and to achieve greater growth and more employment. In short, these are the budgets of the right recovery, of the growth and, above all, of the people. Thank you all very much. [[Applause]] Vote for amendments amending the overall budget content or transferring appropriations between sections --Group II-
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-23-DSPG130.u105	Let us begin the vote on the second group. We shall then vote on the amendments under discussion. Firstly – please silence – amendments that modify the overall budget content. We started with amendments from the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, amendments Nos. 28 to 53, document No. 43564. Vote for Amendments Nos 28 to 53 of the G.P. of the Galician Nationalist Block modifying the global content of budgets, document number 43564. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-23-DSPG130.u106	We voted on amendments to the Parliamentary Group of the Gaga de Left Alternative numbers 1 to 7, document number 43556, and document number 43567 from 1 to 9, document number 43567, the first from the document. Vote for Amendments Nos 1 to 9 of the G.P. of the Alternative Glaga de Left amending the global accounts of budgets, document number 43556 and document number 43567. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-23-DSPG130.u107	And we voted for the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia number one, document number 43600. Amendment No 1 to the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia modifying the global account of budgets, document number 43600. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. This amendment is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-23-DSPG130.u108	We then vote on amendments that transfer appropriations between sections. We started by voting on amendments to the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group Nos. 1 to 27 and 54 to 59. Vote of Amendments Nos 1 to 27 and 54 to 59 G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block that transfers credits between sections, document number 43564 and document with error correction 43722. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-23-DSPG130.u109	We then vote on the amendments by the Parliamentary Group of the Galga de Left Alternative, paragraphs 1 to 25, document number 43567, and the second part of the document with correcting the errors of document number 43688. Vote for Amendments Nos 1 to 25 G.P. of the Gaga de Left Alternative that transfers credits between sections, document number 43567 and document, with error correction, number 43688. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-23-DSPG130.u110	Finally, we voted on the amendment by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia number 1, document 43600, and the correction of errors 43673. Amendment No 1 to the G.P. of Galician Socialists transferring credits between sections, document 43600 and document with correction of errors number 43673. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. This amendment is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-23-DSPG130.u111	Rejected the amendments to the whole and fixed the overall amount of expenditure and income statements, this bill is transferred to Commission 3rd, Economic, Business and Budgets, to continue its processing of compliance with Article 114.4 of the Rules of Procedure of the House. The agenda is run out, the session is up. Good afternoon, thank you very much.
