ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u1	Take your seats, please. The session is open. The agenda is published in the Official Gazette of the Parliament of Galicia, so it is not read. No inassistances have been justified. And we come in, ladies and gentlemen, therefore, on the agenda with point one.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u2	Mr. Jorquera has the floor. Give Mr. Jorquera a voice, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u3	Thank you, Madam President. I call for the floor to appeal to Rule 73.1 of the Rules of Procedure, which states that the agenda may be amended by decision of the plenary on a request from, among other petitioners, two parliamentary groups. And we call for the amendment of the agenda of the AGE and the BNG parliamentary groups to withdraw the first point of vote from the CRTVG's proposal for a framework mandate. We believe that the fact that a third vote has to be reached is symptomatic of the lack of consensus and that it will only be adopted in favour of the Government party.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u4	Thank you very much, Mr. Jorquera.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u5	It is a fact that in itself justifies that this proposal is reconsidered and that this proposal is withdrawn. [[Applause]] Vote for change of agenda
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u6	Thank you very much. We shall then proceed to the vote on the amendment of the agenda proposed by two parliamentary groups in this House, BNG and the Glaga Alternative of the Left. Vote for the amendment of the agenda, at the request of the G.P. of the Nationalist Block Galego and the G.P. of the Alternative Gallega de Lefta, consisting of the withdrawal of point 1, a vote of the proposal for a framework mandate of the Corporation Radio and Television de Galicia, S.A., approved by the Commission!a, Institutional, General Administration, Justice and Interior. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. This proposal for a modification of the agenda is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u7	So we continue with the development of the agenda. Voting of the proposed framework mandate of the Galician Radio and Television Corporation, S.A., approved by Commission 1st, Institutional, General Administration, Justice and Interior
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u8	At the plenary meeting on 24 November 2015, the second time, the proposal for a framework mandate of the Galician Radio and Television Corporation, S.A., adopted by Commission 1a, Institutional, General Administration, Justice and Interior on 30 October, was put to the vote. By failing to reach the required majority of three fifths, in accordance with Article 32 of Law 9/2011, of 9 November, of the public media for audiovisual communication in Galicia and of the fourth standard of regulators of this procedure, the vote will be put again, and it will be adopted if the absolute majority of the members of the House, i.e. 38 votes. If you do not get the majority, you will be deemed rejected, and the Commission will have to adopt a new proposal. We therefore vote on the proposal for a framework mandate. Voting of the proposed framework mandate of the Galician Radio and Television Corporation, S.A., approved by Commission 1st, Institutional, General Administration, Justice and Interior. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 41; votes against, 32. The voting is positive. This proposal is therefore approved.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u9	Upon reaching the absolute majority required, the terms of reference of the Galician Radio and Television Corporation are approved. We continue with point 2, of appearances. The two appearances will be cumulatively debat. Mr. Health Counsellor's comprehensibility, on his own request, to report on the general lines of action of his department The opinion of the Health Adviser, at the request of the Eighteen Members and Members of the G.P. of the Galician Socialists, to explain in which will change the health policy with his arrival at the council
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u10	You have the word for your first intervention by the Health Counsellor, Mr. Jesus Vázquez Almuína. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u11	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. In my presentation I would like to comment that I will take a plan, so that, more or less, the honourable Members are guided. I'm going to talk about the horizon, the mission of the system, innovation as a lever and engine of change, the value of the innovative improvements in management introduced since 2009, the quality and security of the system, the promotion of health and the prevention of disease. I will also talk about the exercise of health authority, inspection, knowledge management, also the Blood and Fabrics Agency, infrastructure, equipment, ICT, a special section for what are professional and human resources and logically the central axis, patients and citizens. I compare here today on my own request to report the general lines of action of my department for the year 2016. The quality of the health services we provide must be the result of a series of actions that we perform in three aspects for us: citizenship, professionals and administration itself. Patients, citizens – that is 2,731,406 Greeks – put their trust in us so that we can provide them with personalized assistance with the best technology and quality and in a safe, efficient and effective way. To that end, we count on the involvement, work and commitment of our excellent professionals, organized into structures that facilitate and guarantee their work. Professionals usually come up with an individual perspective on the quality of their clinical practice, their legitimate claim is only to do the right thing accurately. For our band, health administrations are a more comprehensive and community-based perspective, requiring adequate technical performance and interpersonal treatment that are satisfactory for patients and that their consequences be the improvement in the level of health of the community. What is our horizon? The health system must be able to adapt to a constantly changing environment and to the new role that patients and citizens play in their intervention with health services. We have a lot more conscious citizens, better trained and informed and more capable of choice. In most of them they want to be more protagonists in their health, today the users of health services clearly demand that these services adapt to their needs and want guarantees of continuous and personalized care. Therefore, we must be able to actively involve the patient in the definition, design and prioritization of actions and measures to be implemented to achieve these purposes; in short, making our organization a more efficient system in achieving its main goal: raising the health level of citizens in our territory. It's not, of course, a minor challenge. As you know, the health landscape is evolving, we're facing a different scenario than we had until very recently, in which the system focused primarily on the management of acute diseases. The aging of the population, derived, among other things, from social success and the health system itself, to improve survival, along with the chronicity of diseases, force us to change. In the Sergas Strategy 2014 we have already taken steps towards managing this new scenario, but we have to continue in this evolution. We are finishing the document that takes up the design of the immediate future of the system, the Sergas 2020 Strategy, which we will present in the near future. We are working on his elaboration with the illusion and the goal of making a better system, reviewing all the actions put in place in a critical spirit and in the pursuit of strengthening the correct ones and rethinking everything that might be better. We have contributions from both internal and external agents, we invite professionals, users, medical and nursing students, advisory councils, members of the parliamentary health committee, trade unions and business representatives. With all these contributions we want to build a real guide to define where we want to get, where we want the Greek health system to be within five years. The strategy has defined three strategic axes that will develop in twenty targets by 2020. These strategic axes will be: integral care tailored to the needs of patients, family members and caregivers; professionals committed and cared for by the organization; and efficient management that contributes to the sustainability of the health system. In addition, there will be a fourth strategic axis: adapting infrastructure and health equipment to the needs of patients and citizens. We are currently finishing this process to validate the twenty targets and identify them with the projects to be included in the Sergas 2020 Strategy. As I told you, we will soon present this new strategy. In this appearance, I will focus on the general lines of action that we already have or that we will put into operation in the near future. There'll be, like, new things, but as happens in any solid and consolidated system, the continuity of what you've demonstrated works well. There's a saying for this: if something isn't broken, you don't fix it. We obviously have to talk about what are the principles that should guide us and what tools we count on for that. The Galician Health Service has a mission, which is to improve the health of patients through the provision of effective, efficient and quality care services, in an equitable and sustainable manner; and ensuring the rights and duties of patients. This mission and that commitment, the commitment of all of us, both of those we are here and of the more than 36,000 workers in the system, who are the main active part of the Galician Health Service, is that our obligation and our challenge is to exercise that leadership to achieve this shared goal with the whole of Galician society. The Health Council has made a firm commitment to innovation. We'll keep that bet. Old recipes are not valid, we can't get different results by doing the same; however, change must be done systematically and regulated, not anarchic. To do so, it takes the use of realistic models of innovation management in health services, and we did it because we believe in innovation as the lever and engine of change. For this we have created a tool to facilitate and coordinate this process, both in the care environment and in the research field: it is the Health Innovation Platform, which has been in operation since 2010. We were a pioneer health system in this field. We'll reinforce your role, along with the innovation nodes we've established in each EOXI. This year 2015 is the end of two major health innovation projects in the Galego Health Service: Hospital 2050 and Innova Saúde, jointly endowed with 90 million euros from the Technology Fund, with funding from the ERDF of 80%. I want to highlight the high participation of our professionals in these two plans, more than 200 people directly involved in the 23 subprojects, as well as the national and international reference position that Galicia has achieved on the ground of innovative public procurement. Innovative public procurement is an innovation policy tool that aims to dynamize innovation and internationalisation through the articulation and strengthening of technological demand. It will assume an engine for health innovation and the generation of new goods and services, with which our business sector can compete internationally. We don't stay there, we're also thinking about the future, and we're working with the Ministry of Economics and Competitiveness, and in coordination with the Galician Innovation Agency, to attract Galician more European funds from the 2014-2020 period to develop new innovation projects; in particular, in the area of active aging: the CIE Code, which will also strengthen our leadership in the ICC, and the Empathy Project, which seeks to improve the quality, cost and effectiveness of medical care in two diseases that pose a challenge: dementia and glycogen deposit disease. Finally, we believe in innovation. Health systems need to continuously improve, constantly and innovate. During the last years, we have introduced relevant innovative improvements in the management, organisation and operation of the health system with measures such as the implementation of integrated management, process management, protocolization of priority criteria in the management of waiting lists, the deployment of rapid pathways, safety and quality measures, and the promotion of the proper use of pharmaceutical resources, among others. The assistance results were good. Without being exhaustive, I'll highlight the most relevant. The surgical waiting time list has been reduced, for example, from 28.3 to 17.1 days in priority 1, and to 16.2 later, in June 2015. The average wait for a first hospital medical checkup dropped in this same period from 68 to 50 days. The number of surgical interventions in health centres increased from 12,434 in 2009 to 21,454. And the major outpatient surgery increased by 45.69% between 2010 and 2014. It has gradually decreased the number of administrative consultations in health centers, and they are close to 3 million less, allowing an increase in the time that professionals devote to patients who really need it. One criterion that we are also going to develop from the beginning of the year is the unification of waiting list entry criteria, which will affect about 25,000 processes. The national health barometer also puts our health system in good place. It is also noteworthy that, according to the 2015 report of the Federation of Public Health Associations – which I believe will not be suspicious – the percentage of citizens who say that when they ask for an appointment in primary care they give in 24 hours or less, it is 51%; the second best in Spain, which is only surpassed by Rioxa. I could give you more data, but I think these are strong enough. As I told you, they are objective and are found. These are good data that have been achieved thanks – among other things – to the good doing of our professionals, to those we thank for their commitment. With regard to other assistance innovations for the present and the future, in order to promote the accessibility of the system, the Galician Health Service has a network of comprehensive and highly accessible care resources. This is especially relevant given the population dispersion that characterizes us. However, we must bear in mind that accessibility today is not measured solely by proximity. Improvements in information technology and in the channels of communication experienced in recent years have allowed short distances, and make possible another way of providing assistance and organizing services. In this line, we have launched initiatives such as the launch of the telephone consultation, which in 2015 is already working for all primary care professionals and at all health centres in the autonomous community, and logically we will continue on that line. It is an organisational measure aimed at improving the accessibility of those patients with greater difficulties to be cared for at present; facilitating the reconciliation of family and work life, ultimately, to solve health and/or administrative problems that do not require the presence of the user in health centers. It is one of the best-valued healthcare innovations by citizenship, which we will continue – as I said before – driving in 2016. In the period from 1 January to 30 September 2015, there were 1,084,000 telephone medical consultations, representing 9.83 % of the total consultations of the Galician Health Service. In 2015, we also launched the Connecta 72 program, which means a significant improvement in the follow-up of patients after hospital discharge, which will be consolidated in 2016. Thus, since its inception on April 13 of this year, until September 30, 91,892 calls have been made, with more than 82% follow-up of all hospital discharges of this period. The year 2016 will be the final impulse of the e-health platform, one of the sub-projects that developed within the Innova Saúde project. In particular, it is a technological tool for personalization of services for the patient and the citizen, which makes it possible, from anywhere and device – computers, mobile, tablet – to access services and personalized content based on their profile, whether it is a patient or a healthy citizen who wants to participate actively in the promotion of their health and disease prevention. It will also encourage the participation of the user that I refer to at the beginning of my intervention. I want to highlight this health platform because I think it's going to be a fundamental change in our system. Of course, the patient, the citizen, if you will find yourself as the center of your system We will also continue the health innovation projects Innova Saúde, Hospital in the Home and Digital Care Home, which will facilitate the transformation of the care model, moving from a reactive care model to a proactive, whose main axes will be the promotion of health and disease prevention, the approach of chronicity, self-management and self-care of diseases, and the promotion of active and healthy aging. These two initiatives will be materialized on a platform that can be accessed through various interfaces: interactive digital television and a web portal with mobile device application. Thanks to these instruments we will provide different services to users, such as home monitoring and alarm control, teleconsultation, nutrition plans and physical maintenance, patient disease training, monitored rehabilitation, self-care schedule, support service to caregivers or preventive health programs. In this same line we will continue to promote the interrelationship between professionals through e-consultation or e-interconsultation, which allows cooperative approach to patients' health problems without needing them to move, thus reinforcing, again, the role of primary care. As for the integrated care processes, we will continue to work on their generalization and development. This is supposed to work with the philosophy that the process in general starts and ends in primary care. To this end, priority care processes will be developed and implemented; emergency processes will be incorporated into integrated care processes, and multidisciplinary working groups will be expanded to design new integrated care processes. We will also continue to work towards the full integration of mental health into health care, developing devices in general hospitals and in the community, along with other health devices and in conditions of equity and accessibility with respect to the rest of medical expertise. We will also continue to support quality services such as the ADO system, home hospitalization, which is so good that it is having, with great acceptance by patients and their families. This is specialized care within the patient's home area. There's also another quality service that's going to take place in the next few months... it's at the start stage and it's going to take place in the next few months. It is the second stroke unit in the Hospital Complex of Vigo, where diagnosis, treatment and monitoring of these patients are performed, clearly at a high risk of mortality. We also have for this 2016 projects with 061, this very important system of the council, and one of them is the full integration of the operational activity of the coordination centre in IANUS; actions for the approach of the cardiorespiratory stop of 061; the overcoming of the current model of care plans: school alert, ADO alert, heart alert... integrating these alerts into the IANUS program. Start systems adaptation plans for migration to the new emergency building on the Highway, where it will be integrated with 112. Launches an integral stroke care program in the community. Try to integrate these two units that we now have in operation in the north and south of Galicia. Advance in the development of the nursing register in the clinical history of medical resources. Integration also of patient records and parameters to ensure care continuity, the Secure project, which is currently taking place in Ourense and will be generalized next year to the rest of hospitals. It's about integrating the collected information since the patient calls from any device to 061, until he finishes the process in an emergency service, either with income or with a discharge. Also new decree of the semi-automatic defibrillator, very important to prevent a significant number of deaths we have in Galicia, such as sudden deaths. There's already a record of all these deaths, and what it's about is access by the citizenry, as easily as possible, to both training and possible devices. In quality and safety, we cannot forget an important axis, quality and safety in the assistance we provide. As the main actions and measures, I would like to highlight the system of notification and learning for patient safety, known Sinaps, computerized in all care centers in Galicia; the system of identification of mother-child and emergency patients in all hospitals; the implementation of the system of identification and verification of the surgical patient; the plan of humanization of pediatric areas, initiated at Lugo hospital, or the system of minimization of errors in medication. The updating and impulse of the Plan for minimization of microbiological risks in hospitals; the strategy of integral care for patients with pain, making special fincapé in childhood pain, logically, with development in the group leading the Zero Tolerance Strategy to infant pain, and the procedure for addressing chronic non-oncologic pain. It is important to establish and disseminate criteria for good practices of prescription and good use of medicines for patients, and, of course, also for professionals, with the principles of safety, effectiveness and cost. The work done in this field speaks for itself, and has been accompanied by many other measures that we will also try to maintain or improve, aimed at facilitating the efficient prescription of professionals: implementing the electronic recipe at 100% of the dispensation and at 98.7% of the prescription, being the first autonomous community that has done so; setting targets for the proper use of medicines in management agreements with managers and management teams, and incorporating tools into electronic recipe that help them. As for the promotion of health and the prevention of disease, we also want to highlight vaccination and screening programs. In child vaccination we will continue to comply with the agreements of the Interterritorial Council, and we have incorporated the common vaccination schedule of the National Health System. Here I would like to stress, ladies and gentlemen, that the vaccination calendar is a dynamic element in constant updating. I want to make it clear that we, as advisor, will always act in accordance with scientific evidence and with the recommendations of national and international bodies, and not in the face of any other kind of pressure. People's breeding programmes will continue in their constant improvement process, highlighting – as we have already noted in the budget presence – the colon cancer prevention programme, which we will progressively extend throughout the community. He's piloted in Ferrol, he's now in the deployment phase of Ourense, and next year he's going to expand Pontevedra and Lugo. As for the breast cancer screening program, the technological update of the program will be completed during 2016 with the new digital mammographs acquired in the recent socio-tech competition. And, of course, we will continue with programs to prevent breast cancer, neonatal deafness, tuberculosis and sexually transmitted infections, including HIV. I use it to point out that today, World AIDS Day, this year 2015 the focus of the campaign is about the slogan "no stigmas", to remember the goal of achieving zero discrimination in this problem. The new challenges set out in the Portuguese Anti-HIV/AIDS Plan and other sexually transmitted infections 2015-2018, which this year has launched and focuses its priorities on preventing sexual transmission of HIV in synergy with the prevention of other sexually transmitted infections and the early diagnosis of infected people who are unaware of their infection. On the other hand, continuing within the framework of public health actions, we will maintain food safety, environmental health and inspection programmes, as guarantors of better health conditions for our citizenship. As for the drive of other programs to prevent and promote health, I want to highlight the launch of the Lecer without alcohol for minors. This is about the creation of a brand that distinguishes offers of alternative leisure for minors in discotheques or similar where the absence of alcohol is guaranteed, both in sales, consumption and advertising. Also the beach project without smoke. It's about the creation of a brand that distinguishes, prior to the municipality's engagement, defined areas on beaches where tobacco is not consumed; more than areas, it's known about specific beaches. You will have to design material for signage and model of accession, which is already given in the municipality of Baiona. With the Quitline Tabaquism program, it's about launching a telephone line of support for smokers in the phase of uninhabitation attended by professionals. In the Xermola plan we will continue the development of this plan to fight against childhood obesity. The main objective for 2016 will be to consolidate the Community intervention project in municipalities. This initiative, currently piloting ten municipalities in the community, seeks to create multidisciplinary municipal teams, with minimal participation of the municipality, the school and the health centre, teams that, following the development of a resource map, launch coordinated initiatives to promote healthy activities for the most children based on local capacity. Finally, I want to announce that 2016 will be the year of implementation of the epidemiological surveillance system and chronic diseases. On the other hand, as part of the exercise of the health authority, the Health Council will continue to develop the 2014-2017 Inspection Plan, which focuses on the following basic strategic lines: the protection of the rights of patients and users; the quality assurance of health services, including equitable access to them; the fight against fraud in health services, by providing specific actions for the detection of irregularities in their use, as well as possible diversions or misuses. The inspection and audit plan, which will develop the Directorate-General for Innovation and Public Health Management and which focuses on the following basic strategic lines: planning, managing and disseminating information from food security inspectors' activities; coordinating and monitoring actions within food and environmental alert networks; and the implementation of the quality policy established for public health inspection services. Since today the new low-labour application has been in operation, which is essentially – and following a real decree of the Ministry of Labour – it is to speed up and reduce the bureaucracy that has so far existed in the administrative fulfilment of the casualties. I also want to point out that we explain and acquire a firm institutional commitment to health bioethics. We recently published the Order of 16 October 2015 regulating the functions, composition and functioning of the Council of Bioethics of Galicia. This council aims to complete the characteristics of the Galaga Bioethics Commission, expand and profile its functions and review its composition and functioning, so that regulation expresses the evolution of bioethics in the field of care. The members of this committee are already published in the DOG and there will be a next meeting in a week. In knowledge management, I want to point out that we are working to transform the ability to create, identify, compile, adapt and organize, apply and share the intellectual capital of the Galician Health Service in order to improve its ability to make decisions and contribute to the improvement of the quality of care. A fundamental milestone to perform this function with excellence will be the setting-up of the Gallega Agency for the Management of Health Knowledge, which has as general and basic objectives the management of the formation of the public health system in Galicia, the promotion of research coordination in health institutions of the Galego Health Service, the coordination and momentum of the innovative activity of the Health Council and the Galego Health Service and the evaluation of technologies and health services. Among other aspects, through the Agency we will continue to develop the model of protection, appreciation and transparency of the results of research and innovation generated in the system. And we will establish a framework for the stabilization of human research resources. We will continue to collaborate in the development of the Strategy of Smart Specialization, the RIS3 – in particular, in its challenge 3 – in the new model of healthy life, cemented in the active ageing of the population. We will also facilitate access to the most relevant research programmes in the European Union and to funding agencies at national and international levels through the establishment of stable and sustainable networks in the long term. To this end, we will encourage the participation and competitiveness of our groups and professionals in the framework of the Horizon 2020 programme of the European Union. We will continue to promote our three health research institutes – Saintiago de Compostela, La Coruña and Vigo – in collaboration with the three Greek universities, and the first two previously accredited by the Carlos III Institute of Health, promoting their networked work as an element for resource collection. Ultimately, the Agency is born as an instrument of cohesion of the entire Greek knowledge ecosystem and will work together with other actors of this ecosystem, health research institutes, biomedical foundations, universities, technological centres, companies and funding agencies to position Galicia as a reference to the health I+D+i issue. And as far as training is concerned, we want to promote the maximum use of human resources in matters of our health system that are agreed on for the university teaching of the various health schools at the level of pre- and post-graduate education, as well as pre-university teaching. We will cooperate in maintaining the qualification of health professionals at their highest level, taking care of their updating and recycling and facilitating their incorporation into university education. We will strengthen the role of our teaching committees to improve specialized health training in order to achieve teaching excellence and to be increasingly attractive for the training of specialists. Finally, in the centres of the Galego Health Service we will seek to achieve the teaching excellence of students, health professionals and health science specialists, incorporating the best practices of the different centers and institutions, strengthening the relationships with the agents involved and achieving continuity in the student's formative development as a future specialist, coordinating the teaching of grade and postgraduate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u12	Thank you very much, Counselor. Round of parliamentary groups. Joint Group. Mrs. Pure Churches.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u13	Good morning. And good morning, President. We ended by hearing a rather far-sighted speech, in the future, as if it were an election campaign, not a balance sheet on the state of the Health Council and its management. It is that you always – or lately more – take this hemicycle as a campaign site. Tomorrow the media will surely collect the promises – not reality, but the promises – of a health adviser who access the office when the legislation is about to end. And why? Because the policies carried out by the former advisor – who are none other than those of the PP governments – made their stay in charge unsustainable by the citizen discontent and also by the dissatisfaction of the health personnel; discontent seen by the multiple demonstrations and mobilizations, which in the end are – it seems – the only way to deal with the problems that their health model generates, characterized by the diminishing public investment and the increase of spending on privatizations, which you defend and practice. One result – this is today’s newspaper – can be, for example, the news that comes on page 12 of Galicia: “I break a fecal tube on the emergencies of the new Vigo hospital. It is the second time in a month and a half that happens the same in the area of critics." So, Counsellor, this chaos is in the paper, ladies and gentlemen. This change of image and its speech do not convince, at least this honourable Member, when the health budgets for 2016 do not assume the recovery of the cuts applied by his government over the last decade. It includes 3,309.9 million for health care, which means an increase of 139 over the previous one. However, health policies are still endowed with €236.7 million less than when you started ruling in 2009. The cuts suffered in public health services since that year, since 2009, have affected human resources, affecting those professionals you've been talking about, i.e. health workers, who have experienced a general decrease in numbers and a marked deterioration in their working conditions, which is, as is logical, very negative in the functioning of the health system, especially in terms of waiting lists. It is necessary, Counsellor, less promises and a public job offer that covers the current and future vacancies; vacancies that are the result of the destruction of jobs carried out by the Government you represent and by the advisor to whom you replace. It is also necessary to restore all the rights abolished to this staff, both in respect of extra payments and the application of agreements, and to recognize all judgments of the Supreme Court of Justice in Galicia concerning days of free will, which must be counted as part of the working day. As far as health infrastructures are concerned, Mr Counsellor, i.e. hospitals and health centres, the result cannot be more disastrous. The best known example is the Vigo hospital, the Álvaro Cunqueiro, although there are other cases to which I will refer later. A very bad management of the public-private model, the electoral pressure to open the new facilities, but above all the cuts introduced into the project by the concessionaire to reduce costs and increase benefits with Sergas' complicity, which has outsourced the final drafting of the project and the fulfilment of the terms of the contract to a private company, are responsible for the functional deficiencies in the healthcare field. The coexistence of two agencies, one of public management – theoretically oriented to ensure better care for patients – and another private, in the hands of the concessionary company – whose main objective, as it is logical, is to gain the greatest benefits for its shareholders – is incompatible, Counsellor, with attention to care processes, that there is integration of health care – diagnostics, treatments, rehabilitation – with support services – cleaning, nutrition, sterilization and maintenance –. The result is impressive, an impressive building, in that longing for grandeur that marks the line with which you have made Gaiás, but with the deficiencies of a campaign hospital of the past century – being generous – motivated by the economic strategies of the concessionary company with regard to the quality and quantity of materials used: rain of faecal waters in emergencies, drop of ceilings, drips, absence of toilets in operating and consultations, difficult access; when not deficiencies that affect directly the life of patients, for example, when they cancel an operation to a cancer patient due to lack of material, or the detected deficiencies in sterilization. This is in Galicia's most expensive hospital and it's going to receive an important investment in health budgets to pay to the concessionaire who was granted privatization. What confirms that things have not been done well is that the European Commission, which you have not mentioned, has just accepted through, last November, that is, there is nothing, the complaint submitted by the Galician Public Health Association. This shows that the European Commission finds reasonable indications in the violation of Community legislation regulating public-private collaboration to build and manage public infrastructure. But not only does Álvaro Cunqueiro have deficiencies, I refer to him, firstly, for being a new hospital and what symbolizes the model of health to which we walk; a privatized health model that addresses the interests of the concessionaires over the health and life of citizenship. In the city of Pontevedra there is still a hospital complex fragmented into two buildings separated by miles. While the Montecelo Hospital was renewed with an investment of 70 million euros, the Provincial Hospital is an obsolete and ruinous building, which presents incredible structural problems, which prevent adequate care for patients. For example, lack of thermal insulation, they got to be 35 degrees in the summer. Drowned in such a bad state that the smell, Counsellor, compels you to take masks to the professionals (campaign hospital). Deficiencies in the consultation room, exploration and hospitalization room, the urgency of ICU and parking lot. The city of Pontevedra has long demanded the closure of the provincial hospital and the extension of the renewed hospital in Montecelo. Enlargement approved by the progressive government of the Bipartite, with an investment of 90 million, but with the return of the government of the PP to power the Union abandons the project to build a new private financing hospital, away from the city, in Mount Carrasco, and at a cost of 1 billion euros.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u14	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u15	This doesn't seem to be the best way to manage public money, Counselor. On the other hand, indoor Galicia, the provinces of Lugo and Ourense, continue to be discriminated against negatively by the Galician Union. While the Coruña has an investment of 10 million, and Pontevedra with a 4.6, the Place is applied to 2 million and the Ourense 1.7 million. By the way, in the new budgets there is no sad euro for radiotherapy and hemodynamic services for the twenty-four hours at the HULA de Lugo, repeatedly claimed. And the CHOU of Ourense, with collapsed emergencies, continuous medical strikes... in August of this year there was an incidence that was able to create social alarm among the population of Ourense. A patient who has been anesthetized was suspended for the second time for a surgical operation due to lack of surgical equipment. But it's not the only case, there are others who lack anesthetist too. In the countryside of this question, with an aging population...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u16	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u17	...–end, president–, resulting in a significant percentage of chronic patients, 19 quotas of primary care are eliminated. And finished there, I leave the rest for the reply, Counselor. Thank you very much and nothing more.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u18	Thank you very much. For the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego has the floor to Mrs Prado Cores.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u19	Good morning. Good morning, Counselor, the truth is that when you started your intervention here, relating to all the topics you were going to deal with, the truth is that you have left us quite surprised, because you made a comprehensive relationship of a whole series of issues; but you forgot to tell him about the real health of this country, Counselor, you forgot to tell him about the real state of public health in Galicia, you forgot to tell him about the fundamental concerns that the Greeks and the Greeks have out there every time they need some kind of health care. Clearly, there is a real public health in Galicia, and a health of lies, propaganda, which tries to convince us of a virtual reality that does not really exist. You came here today and used this rostrum in a session that we could call you a press release, a publication that will be conveniently re-enacted by the media, starting with the public media, by that kidnapped public radio and television, conveniently hijacked by the People's Party, and brazenly serving what you consider to be newsworthy. But you did here a dissection of plans, plastic projects, while the real problems of the Greeks and the Greeks at the health level were not in your speech, I don't know if in your schedule, but I don't think so. I'm going to admit that at the moment you've been appointed to try to change the face of the health council, and you're doing a tour of Galician health centers, making you listen, making you take notes, but what you need are solutions, Mr. Almuína, are solutions to that tremendous reality of Galician public health, because the People's Party, its Government, these six years that they assume – and I'm not going to tire of repeating it – a black sexnione for Galician public health, take you back to Galician public health as a real socks, but for evil. He's been turned around like a real sock. And look, you had the courage to come here and say that primary care is the beginning and end of the health system, and the truth is that it makes it stupid to hear you say these questions here, not because we don't believe in the BNG that this is so, it's obvious that primary care is the gateway to health, and it should be tremendously thought and tremendously considered and with resources, but the reality is that it's one of the great damage done by the policies that the People's Party has carried out. Let's find that at this moment primary care is increasingly irrelevant in the system, it doesn't come here and say pretty words that primary care is very important, the important thing is that it is being given, and you have reduced health budgets in a fearsome way. They have reduced personnel, they have reduced all kinds of materials, and right now, as I told you, it's practically residual, they've loaded from a pen to an interlocution with primary attention. With the creation of the EOXI, what they did was they created a structure that was primarily centered on the hospital, and essentially in those hospitals where you want to concentrate all your attention to make it easier for the business to make it easier for private companies, and they jumped off a pen, which is the primary care conversation, with which, at the moment, there is a situation of total abandonment. All the steps they take are in the direction of secondary care, brutally secondary primary care. Loss of decision-making capacity, reduction of budgets, deterioration of infrastructure, paralysis of planned ones. I remind you that you have just arrived here, but I was already in the People's Party, and I remind you that at first, when the People's Party returned to the Government of June 2009, they were going to make sixty, and I don't know how many health centers, then they passed to fifteen, and at this point I hope that the reply tells me what is the situation of health facilities in our country, because it's really quite a challenge. You also had the courage to come here and say that there's a very high degree of satisfaction about primary care, maybe you didn't bother going to the health centers, or trying to pick up appointments for primary care doctors, for family doctors, and the rule is becoming that there's a lot of these professionals that the appointment is for within a week, ten days and twelve days. A lot of these professionals, and you know that. Why is that? Because you don't rest the retired professionals, they don't cover vacations, they don't cover low pay, and the reality is that much less personal has to handle the same care burden, and that's why? Waiting lists and worse care quality; but I also hope you will explain to me what your primary care forecast is as well, because you said here that you are presenting the strategy for your department for 2016, but it is that the strategy for your department for 2016 are the budgets of the Board that you have just presented, and that all these problems that I am listing to you are not in those budgets, Mr. Almuínña, because for primary care, which already have been cut out hundreds of millions of euros, it turns out that these budgets are cropping back for primary care, with which you will already explain to me what is that priority for primary care. You've also forgotten, surprisingly – I suppose it's hardly important – to talk about the new Vigo Almuña hospital. Do you think you can come to this Parliament and explain what are the strategies of your department for next year and not talk about Vigo's new hospital? What do you think we are foolish of the Members and Members who are here, or of the people of Greece who are out there? What level of credibility can you have by going up to this rostrum and not talking about what is the situation of the new Vigo hospital? Not at all! That means you've come here to make that report, but not to talk about the real health problems. Because look, it's not enough to change your face, I told you before; you were named to try to make a nice face and give another picture, and it's not enough to change your face, you just changed part of the direction of Vigo's new hospital, I suppose with the intention of making you think that they're already part of the problems solved. First, they did not change all personnel, the manager – who was the maximum responsible for the transfer and who makes the decisions, and who carried out a fearful action, endangering the health and life of people in the southern health area of Pontevedra province, the Vigo health area – remains the highest responsible for the health in Vigo, with which they did not change the whole direction. But the question is, Mr. Almuña, and I hope you will answer me, do you have the ability to take action on the management and management of the concessionaire? That's the question we want in the Galician Nationalist Block that answers us. That new direction will end with that bicephalia where there's a small head, which are the heads of the council, and there's the big head, which really makes the decisions, which is the head of the concessionary company's management? That new direction, will you have some decision-making capacity with regard to the solutions to be addressed at the new Vigo hospital? Because at Vigo's new hospital there's still a lot of problems, and they need solutions, and the solutions can't be put back together, because it's been shown that these solutions don't work out, so to get different results, you have to put on the different alternative table, and today you haven't talked about any. I hope you will soon be able to do so, because at the new Vigo hospital there are still problems with staff, there are still organizational problems, problems arising – basically – from unified services at the last moment and matching the transfer: unorganized shifts, absence of heads of service, without head of internal medical service, for example, that you know that you are a central element in a hospital, or without emergency management, which is another critical area of a hospital. What solutions and how will you solve those problems, Mr. Almuña? Deterioration of the working conditions, wages, people hired by the dealership and subcontractors, that you privatize public services, and in these privatizations you take over some kind of job and turn it into garbage jobs, and you know it perfectly. There's still problems with the structure of the hospital and the spaces. How is it possible that in a hospital with so many square meters of surface surface there is no room for all consultations? How is it possible that there may have to be consultations that have to share half a day and half a day? How could they have had a lot, but how much care to reserve room for the marketing of health for commercial spaces and not to take into account that there had to be room for all external consultations at Vigo hospital, Mr. Almuña?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u20	Finish, please, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u21	Is it because there was a design where part of those consultations would be absorbed by the peripheral high resolution center and that you were charged and that you have no intention of carrying out? Is it best for that question? There are still problems with sterilization, surgical operations are still being suspended at the new hospital in Vigo, Mr. Almuña, in an area as simple as heart surgery...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u22	Finish, please, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u23	...–end–, operations are being suspended. Why? Because it remains unresponsive to proper sterilization, it remains an aberration, a genuine barbarity, that is the largest hospital – like the Vigo hospital – and it turns out that sterilization is in the Mexier. And so, then the next turn I'll continue to talk to you about questions you haven't referred to today, Counselor...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u24	Thank you very much, Mrs. Prado. Time's up. [[Mrs. Prado Cores speaks words that are not perceived.]] Mrs. Prado. [[Applause]] Parliamentary Group of the Left Galician Alternative. You have the word to Mrs. Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u25	Thank you, President. Good morning, Mr. Almuña. Two and a half months ago Mrs. Mosquera occupied that chair, not there, there, that one that you occupy today, but in her last appearance as health advisor to this opposition. By then I had already warned the Counselor's lady was a political corpse, and fifteen days later she was already dead. You pick up your remains today, the remains of what remained standing at that council, a dying woman who is called public health and who, if you follow with the same recipes as the previous advisor – that this chair lodger – will soon need palliative care. In fact, if these budgets are approved on December 22nd, we can celebrate the executions of our public health. Because you haven't changed anything since you arrived. Beyond cosmetic changes, we continue to drag the same deficiencies and accumulate from the arrival of Feijóo to power a loss of 7% of the health budget. 276 million euros less, which are actually, in real terms, constant euros, 18% less, and which assumes that our public health is practically falling into nothing. The minimum, the shy increase in the budget that you announced, is going to pay some of the staff you yourself cut first. And yet, you prefer to keep spending on senior positions of the board, on any cabinet staff or even on the cures of public health. One more year – and there are three – the Left Gate Alternative denounces in this Parliament that we continue to pay cures in public health, half a million euros paid from the public pocket, from the public pocket, while we prefer to cut into healthcare staff. Anyway, we have amendments, but you won't accept any, or one will accept; just as they didn't accept any of the amendments to the whole of last Monday's plenary: zero amendments to the whole accepted by you, zero amendments to the opposition. Of course, then they talk about dialogue, they talk about pacts, agreements and I don't know what kind of hand they tend; while they trample on most of them, they don't even leave the possibility that we can try to improve from a distance a few budgets that confirm year after year a brutal process of decapitalizing public health. You – I said it once here – are the liquidators of public health. I see, Mr. Almuño, that you bring a red lattice, and you also said it in your intervention. It's you, the truth, the policy of the laity, because then, for the rest, hunger and precariousness in budgets. The anti-Side Committees fade, it's a laugh, Counsellor, the anti-Side Committees fade and they have to shut down. And you keep the same cuts both in the prevention of drug addiction and in the prevention of HIV, you can laugh; I wonder where your recovery is. Drugs, Fegamp convention, 57% cut since Mr. Feijóo's arrival. And this drug prevention program since 2014 has cut by 3%. And you know it's exactly that program that's responsible for preventing bottlenecks and alcoholism in youth. You announced here I don't know what program, when the budgets are actually being cut and the drug control program is 7% less. And the non-profit associations that fight HIV and drug addictions are 22% less budgeting since 2011. They can bring all the lattice they want, where's that recovery? Less drawers, therefore, and more public policies. How can you come up with innovation if all you're doing is privatizing it? Are you going to cut, Counsellor, 17 million euros of Amancio Ortega from this public-private partnership contract that costs us 88 million euros to privatize high technology? They're gonna stay or they're gonna give it to Philip, because they're gonna stay? What are those balances? Where is the mandatory report requiring the ministry for public-private partnership contracts of more than EUR 12 million? Where are those reports? We've ordered them, Mr. Padre. Just like we've applied for that contract with Mrs. Ana Sánchez's company. We don't forget, we won't get tired, you'll have to keep listening to what's left of legislation. Three years in this House without having before us the data from the Pricewaterhouse Report. You yourself denied it in your first speech in this Parliament, also denied it to Mrs Mosquera. And it had to be Sergas' manager, the one in the Commission – and it seems to have been funny enough – that he had brought me a copy of one of the reports, because it's not all the information requested. And look, Mr. Almuño, something became clear to me from the reading of those twenty-two pages you paid 220,000 euros for in 2010. The auditor tricked us, because he told us at that time that the financial market was stable and it was feasible for the Temporary Business Union to get funding. It's all part of the same scam, of its crisis, of its economic bubble; of the scam you've transferred to the citizens' pocket. They said there was financial and economic viability, that the market was stable, they deceived us! Are you going to ask for responsibility for that report? Pricewaterhouse said that the risk was transferred to the private company and that that was a benefit and so recommended. We see how the risk was transferred, it was a lie. What are you going to do? And it was to Junta who had to look for that funding, we're going to pay 1,400 million euros more for a hospital that falls to pieces and is also financed by public money from the ICO and the European Investment Bank; Mr. Almuña, the contract has been breached from top to bottom. You also know that the Plural Left has raised questions in the European Parliament. But, as you have already said here, you know, in addition, that the European Commission has admitted to processing this complaint from the Galician Public Health Association. And you're going to come to investigate it, Mr. Almuña, you're going to have the black men of the European Commission investigating that scam which is the new hospital in Vigo. You will have us here, gentlemen of the People's Party and ladies of the People's Party; the jewel of Mr. Feijóo's crown is a fraud, a scam, a very expensive bluff, which also endangers our health. You come here to talk about vaccines and medicines, you know, when you refuse to provide vaccines for everyone and when the ministry of your government, of your party, of Mr. Rajoy, has just shielded the business with Pharmaindustry. He has just signed an agreement with the pharmaceutical industry to link pharmaceutical spending to the increase in the state's gross domestic product, Mr. Almuña, through the back door a few days before leaving the Government. They've just left us armoured not only for the PharmaIndustria business, they've just stolen from us the state-wide health budget. Why don't you want to talk about it? You want to talk about generics? Tell me about the Pharmaindustry agreement. Before Mr. Rajoy left our health mortgaged for many years, many years; [...]. [[(By order of the President and in accordance with Rule 106(3) of the Rules of Procedure, this expression is withdrawn from the Journal of Sessions)]] They can't stand you or the medical schools anymore. It's you who can hide, besides, behind the professionals, and today they've done it again as cowards. They talk about excellent professionals, that they are their main asset, and then they despise us; they despise us when they minimize their cry for help in the face of decomposition, in the face of the dismantling of public health services; they despise us when they denounce the absence of material means to be able to work they despise us when they recognize their validity and mistreat them laborfully. Mrs. Prado, the head of human resources at the Galego Health Service, and you yourself speak with total impunity of betting on stable employment, and she's a ridiculer. She's a ridiculer to the public workers and workers who are right now being, even, sanctioned and punished when they take off because they can't go to work. You're going to get the minimum labour rights! Your Honor, the better it would have been for you to stay in the county, he was more comfortable, he was better, because at the Health Council it's very cold. Purchasing won't be worth anything to Mr. Feijóo, nor to you, purges in the council won't serve to hide a management that's terrible, that's bad and that's ending with public health. You'd better have stayed in your county, 'cause you might have to pack your bags again soon. They can't hide anymore, because in Montepío it's cold too, Mr. Padre, and in the council is cold. You're staying alone and it's going to be the citizenship that brings winter to this government, and it's going to be the citizenship that already realizes that you haven't changed anything at all, that your entry hasn't changed anything at all. And if you don't change anything at all, it's citizenship that changes the government.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u26	Thank you very much, Mrs. Solla. Mrs. Solla, I beg you to remove the expression "full-handed robbery," because I think it doesn't steal anyone here. So, I ask you to remove the expression that attacks the decoration of this House. [[Protests.]] [[Protests.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Well, then you have a call to order and I withdraw the expression. Thank you very much. [[Mr. Beiras Torrado pronounces words that are not perceived.]] I asked him for no opinion. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Well, you have the floor of the representative of the Socialist Group, Mrs Acuña do Campo. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Quiet, please! Quiet, please! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Quiet, please, Mrs. Prado! [[Mrs. Prado Cores speaks words that are not perceived.]] [[Mrs. Prado Cores speaks words that are not perceived.]] Mrs. Prado, I don't want to have to call you in order, please. Please do it, Mrs. Prado! [[Mrs. Prado Cores speaks words that are not perceived.]] [[Murmurs.]] You have the floor. [[Mrs. Prado Cores speaks words that are not perceived.]] Mrs. Prado, you have a call to order. [[Murmurs.]] Quiet, please! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] You're done? Because you have the word to Mrs. Acuña. Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u27	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies. Good morning, Mr. Vázquez. You came here today to inform us of the general lines of action of your department, but above all to explain to us that you will change in health policy with your arrival at the board. And I have to tell you honestly that after forty-five minutes, except that of not smoking on the beaches, for much more difference we don't have in this. Look, the lines of action followed by your department to reach this disastrous and worrisome situation that has the Welsh public health at the moment you incorporate yourself, after you have finally ceased your predecessor, are well known to all the Greeks. You know very well the workers and the workers who go on strike, you know very well the users and users who go on protest, and they know you very well, Mr. Counsellor, the Greek companies who walk from court to court. As it is also well known by all the Greeks and Greeks who will not change anything with you. And you know why, Counselor? Because the ideologist of health policy will remain the same: Mr President, Mr Feijóo. Because besides the budget you've already found it, and because besides your team – I greet and give good days – it's the same team you were with your predecessor, Mrs Mosquera. And besides, with all honesty, Counselor, after listening to him, I also have to conclude that you are not going to be left on strike, with which I don't know if you're going to change anything. Look, someone who has been calling himself his friend for more than thirty years told him in an open letter in a newspaper: "Dear Jesus, I don't understand how you accepted the position of Health Counsellor, would it be worth finishing your political life so badly for doing Alberto Núñez Feijóo a favor? The Greek president deserves the crisis he is suffering: he has put himself in a deep hole for the evil that all these years has treated Vigo and, especially, Vigo's health area, and for the countless hoaxes and alleged illegalities committed in connection with the new hospital. And now he made it to try to save the furniture, he takes advantage of you, complicates your life, sending you cowardly to give a battle for him in which you're going to die, politically speaking." All that I don't tell you, Mr. Vázquez, tell you a friend of yours. And for all this the truth... with these friends, yes... [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u28	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u29	So, look, it's no wonder... If you think so of the closest people, don't miss the mess shown by you here today in your presence. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Look, I don't know, Mr. Vázquez, if you are aware of all that Mr. Feijó has done with public health with the excuse of the crisis. But look, it's just that you've changed the model, and now with the People's Party, health isn't universal, it's not public, it's not free, it's not of quality. So the interesting thing would be that you told us today what you're going to do today to return universality to our health. I'm afraid nothing. What are you going to do to give him back the public character that Feijó cancelled with these massive privatizations? I'm afraid nothing. What are you going to do to eliminate the trees, the many trees that have been growing around? Well, I'm afraid nothing, Mr. Vázquez Almunia, because – I insist – the budget is already made. And what are you going to do to return the quality? So let's see, tell us, what are you going to do with the health waiting, for example, with the waiting lists? Will you accept what we have been asking from the Socialist Parliamentary Group over and over again for that audit to know, to quantify, to know the real situation of health waiting in Galicia? Yes, the structural wait, the non-structural wait, the drawer, the closed schedules and they'll call you home. Does it really do that with the waiting list? My attention is very much drawn to me that you who are so faithful to what the Interterritorial Council says, for example on the topic of vaccines, yet they totally disregard the International Council – what it commands, what it commands – which was agreed to measure the waiting in that council. You know why? Do you know why they tell you otherwise? Because we cannot compare the waiting of the Autonomous Community with that of the rest of the communities; something that does not interest Mr Feijóo at all. Tell us, what are you going to do with the new infrastructure? Look, according to the president, he's already done five hospitals and he's already done fifty health centers; with which you, the truth, little remains to be done. If you could, the forgotten CAR, it wouldn't be wrong! But look, the truth is, Mr. Vázquez, it's not five or fifty. The truth is, with Feijóo, the health centers continue to be entwined and the hospitals are in the courts. But undoubtedly, the biggest and most serious failure in that sense is Vigo's private hospital. What are you gonna do with that brown? Maybe you think you'll fix it by putting most Bipartite time managers in front of you? Do you know what they call that? Do you know what they call him there? Back to the past. I'm going to use a very colloquial expression, have noses to the thing!, have noses to the thing! After everything you've been critical of us, at the time of the sudden failure and no longer finding solutions, you turn to Bipartite managers. Well, look, no doubt they'll do much better, but the problem is irresoluble until Mr. Rubial gets out of the way and, above all, the private company. Look, the problem is in your model, the problem is in privatization, which in addition to that company has built a disastrous hospital. Don't be mistaken, the difficulty is not in attaching the rain to the Wizard, who, no doubt, also has his nuances. But the real problem is to put the public together with the private in a building built with business criteria instead of hospital criteria. The problem, Counselor, is that the Greek citizenry will have to pay at the boutique price a hospital made with the construction of the Chinese. Look, a lot of innovation, you've been here half an hour talking about innovation, and it turns out we're seeing for the second time breaking down the pipes of the faeces. Yes, man, I don't seem to have married that image of great innovation. Look, the problem is the irregularities and illegalities your friend was talking about. Tell us, Mr. Vázquez, what will you do if Europe gives reason to the Public Health Platform? What can you give her? Look, take a hint. You feel calm about the past, but with those chiefs of service from that technical committee, and look for formulas to throw out those who are destroying and making the new infrastructure impossible. They throw out privatization, and they do it, in addition, so that you don't have to give that company a million-dollar compensation. Only then, Counselor, will you finish that tremendous failure and if you solve the difficult problem that Feijó has caused. But if something works wrong and if something is fundamental to the public health service, these are professionals and professionals. Those of you who say they're going to take care of so much - exactly - that they're going to take care of them a lot. So look, start by feeding them, because they've cut them up to the money they're assigned to a guard at the CAP. You know? On Sundays they were given food and dinner. Now they either eat or dinner. And that's what they're going to take care of. Look, fucking menu! And I'm going to use this term, because it looks like the most graphic. Fuckin' shit! I've looked before I say "brain" and you can say in this House, no problem. [[Murmurs.]] Look, fuck... yeah, yeah, fuck the massive and forced retirements at age 65 and a second. ERE, I TREME ERE! You have been charged – not even 10 percent of the allowed replacement rate – and you have reduced the professionals, so I call you ERE, of our public health system. Yes, Counselor. And they left the templates seriously jammed, both in quantity and in quality, because they retired – I have to tell you – to the elite of our profession. But in case it was little ERE, the ones you left, what did you do? Well, you cut them off salaries, extras, billboards, food, all kinds of work rights, including professional career. By the way, they just presented 5,000 companies to ask for the professional career recovery.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u30	End, please, Mrs. Acuña.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u31	As for the hired staff, what do you say? Terrible scandals! You hire us for hours to cover a full shift, Monday to Friday, suspending the contract at the end of the week when it's a month's vacancy. By the way, you're claiming the Labour Inspectorate...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u32	End, please, Mrs. Acuña.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u33	...which pays the common box what it owes. Anyway, it doesn't take much more time, but on the second shift I'll talk to you about these massive privatizations, the abandonment of primary care, the breaches of the laws that you yourself have approved and that new...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u34	Thank you very much, Mrs. Acuña.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u35	...–and finished–...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u36	No, stop it now, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u37	...Sixth Committee of Ethics. I don't know what's gonna look like to your Ethics Committee that you're coming today with that lacy, when, ever since they've been in government, they've been cutting...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u38	Thank you very much, Mrs. Acuña. Your time is up. Ma'am, do me a favor. [[Applause]] Popular Group, Mr. Santalices.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u39	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning to all of you. I also greet the team of the health adviser in the gallery. And I thank you, Mr. Counsellor, for your presence, we will have the opportunity, both in the first intervention and in the second, to speak of some of the things that you have announced here today and which are of great importance. I'd start by highlighting your experience. You're appointed counsellor, but you're a man who has experience both in management and in assistance, and also has something very important, which is political experience. Political experience is also good for a health adviser, because when making decisions you have to be able to combine the political part with the technical part. So in this sense, I value it positively. I also value your decision and the courage to face a challenge that, indeed, as was said here – through Mrs. Acuña – is a challenge, of course, in love, but which implies its difficulty, regardless of open letters. This open letters, the devil carries them, and you know that, Mrs. Acuña. The letters opened the... yes. I don't threaten anyone!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u40	Don't talk, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u41	I'm telling you about open letters because you think you know this and you have experience. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And I'm also surprised that I don't know why many of the political groups today don't want the media to pick up what you said here today. Aren't they piral? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Hey, it's not you guys.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u42	Mr Santalices, speak to the Members.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u43	No, no, of course, we're going to tell them they're not plireal. I think they collect the information, you here have been given a threat so that they don't collect the information of what the advisor said here today. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Yes, yes, they told him. I've been paying attention, eh! And for the moment, I perceive things. Look, you have an important challenge, Counselor, which is to keep the Greek health system in the current parameters. A challenge that is indeed complex. Let's remember some data. 77% of the Greeks say that the Greek health system works well, and this is a fact that we have to value. 80% and 81%, respectively, of both medical and nursing staff, highly value our professionals, 80% and 81% of the population. It's data from the barometers. And we've improved in the last five years eight posts. These are data from the barometer, but the data from the Federation for the Public Health Defence Association, which you've already mentioned here, the response to attention to a primary care consultation put us in second place within the first twenty-four hours. So there's no such complaint. And the perception of the improvement of waiting lists perceived by citizens puts them in the first place. Data from the Association for the Defence of Public Health Federation. And today we know the opinion of the Instituto Galego de Statística, which also evaluates very positively the Greek health system. Of course, consolidating all this is not easy, of course it's not easy. To consolidate the universality of health care in Galicia in which we can pretend to be pioneers, because we were the first to implement a special public health plan to cover the whole population, of course it is not easy! But all this, Counselor, we have to admit. We have to recognize it because it was also a program that later copied all autonomous communities. You've been in office for a short time, it's true, you've been in office for a short time. And I value you two things especially. One of them is the settlement of Álvaro Cunqueiro. Here they said you hadn't talked about the Cunqueriro Alvaro, I'm going to talk about the Cunqueriro Alvaro and the Cunqueiro Alvaro settlement. Maybe you don't talk much about Álvaro Cunqueiro, but you're acting a lot. He was criticized for not talking about Cunqueiro, but you act in Cunqueiro, and that's what we also value. I also value – and I will talk about it later – the agreement reached in Ourense, which introduces improvements in health care, because you are behind that agreement, and for Ourense it is very important. Two moves that were not easy to make, but two moves that were set up. Alvaro Cunqueiro, large public hospital, very necessary in the south. There will be references from all over the southern part of Galicia. He had a complex transfer, no one obvious this transfer. The transfer was of enormous complexity, but today it is settled and the hospital is walking freely towards the biggest function it has, which is to provide health care with high technology and also being a reference to the entire area of Galicia. And you have a lot to do with this, because we've moved from the transfer to the hospital today. They come with a story that a pipe broke. But please! Those of us who have been in hospital charges know that a pipe breaks every day. Yes, man, and hospitals are flooded. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] But what are you going to tell me and it was the general hospital? What do you want to count here? If every day there are events of these, unfortunately, another thing is that you want to extrapolate them and make this a world. Look, there was a default plan to dynamize this hospital. Yes, but all plans fall. [[Murmurs.]] We just checked it out in the city of Olivia. The plans fall and a plan falls. And a plan has fallen that, dear God! [[Applause]] All the plans fell, and here was everything: lack of collaboration, an excessive alarm was generated, talk of the disarray of professionals. I'm sorry that... "Ah, there's Mr. Losada." Speaking of defiance of the professionals, you sit with the heads of service... but don't waste your time sitting with the heads of service, because according to a member of this House of the city, the heads of service are only used to play golf. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] They only serve to play golf. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] So you can't... who despises professionals? [[Murmurs.]] Who despises professionals? So, it's... you see how they get on. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] The plan has fallen! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I'm sorry, I'm sorry...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u44	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u45	I've already said... I don't want anyone to lean on, I just said there was a plan for Vigo's hospital not to go on... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u46	Mr. Losada!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u47	...a plan has fallen, a plan has fallen. It's falling...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u48	Mr. Losada, would you like me to call you in order? Please do it!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u49	...and another plan falls, because a plan just fell into the city...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u50	You have a call to order, Mr. Losada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u51	Bad luck.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u52	Mr. Losada, would you like the second call to order?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u53	No, I don't want to, if...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u54	Well, I'm just telling you, if you don't let me talk, I'm going to have to call the order for the second time. Mr. Santalices, continue, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u55	I've been going on, Madam President. Well, Ourense hospital. I'm going to stop with Vigo's hospital, because I don't want you to suffer any more from this matter, we're going to stop this from Vigo's hospital. Now it's running freely at the hospital... look, Vigo's hospital is already running, what you have to do is start working on what this big hospital is. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] It's okay. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Abel, please. Abel, please. Abel Losada – not Abel Caballero –, quiet bridge, quiet bridge, quiet bridge. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u56	Mr. Santalices, no dialogue, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u57	For God's sake, quiet. Let's see, a little quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u58	Mr. Santalices, no dialogue, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u59	Ourense hospital, Ourense hospital, calm down, Abel, please. Now I'm going to talk about Ourense, with your permission. Ourense hospital. I thank you, Counsellor, for addressing the comprehensive reform of the Ourense hospital and for reaching that agreement, which is very important for Ourense, which is the coverage of 31 squares; the reinforcements of the medical guards, which includes the Crystal Hospital and also the Santa María Nai hospital; and the interventionist radiology guards, which is a very important matter, because it stabilizes, and very positively, the health area of Ourense. I wish, Counselor, that also culminate the process of the Law of Assurances. The Law of Guarantees is a bet of this government, and I want, we ask you to end your development. Guidelines have already been marked, such as the free choice of hospital, the second opinion, but we would like that around the waiting period if we had finalised what is the warranties decree, and also, even though you have already announced it now, standardization processes of how they are included in waiting lists. I don't think it's appropriate that there is a waiting list inclusion criterion in the Crown other than an inclusion criterion for a patient on a waiting list in Ourense. So I'm glad you took that step. And the Law of Guarantees is a bet of this government and I would like this to be fulfilled. We also attach great importance to chronicity, and to the pathologies surrounding chronicity. You here today announced something about those pathologies, and in the second round we'll talk about it. And pharmaceutical policy. We in the pharmaceutical policy gave us believe that a good proposal, without any support, we had no support. The priority drug catalogue was brought to this House, which put the batteries on the State Government to mark a line of the prescription by an active substance and enhance the prescription by generics. And here we take a very important step: we move from a prescription of 11% to a prescription of 42% right now. But we are the pioneers, and that was done in this House...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u60	Finish, please, Mr. Santalices.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u61	...with a vote against those gentlemen who are sitting on the bench on the left. I'm still betting, and I want you to keep betting on the consolidation of the tech partner, because that's where technology and the maintenance of it is incorporated, which is very necessary for our hospitals and for the diagnosis of many of the pathologies. So, Counsellor, in the second intervention, I will talk to you about other relevant aspects, especially, fundamentally, with chronicity. Nothing else, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u62	Thank you very much. The health adviser, Mr. Vázquez Almuínha, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u63	If you think about it, I'm going to go down our strategy by 2016, and then I'm going to comment on the nice épitets that have been dedicated to me since their benches. But we're going aside. First of all, within the agencies, a fundamental agency, and which will start operating from the first days of January, will be the gaga de Sangue Agency, Organs and Fabrics. The Centre for the Transfusion of Galicia and the Office for the Coordination of Transplants and the Cell and Fabric Processing Units of the Autonomous Community will be integrated into it. This involves optimizing resources and improving patient care. The creation of the Agency responds to the need to achieve coordination, increase the effectiveness and efficiency of the various activities that are grouped and that respond to the following general purposes, which are to ensure the supply of blood and its derivatives, coordinate the donation, organ transplants, the implantation of cells and tissues, and assume the organization and ensure the availability of samples of the highest quality of cells and tissues. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not forget other aspects in which, despite its unquestionable importance, I do not want to be exhaustive, because we have already had the opportunity to expose them to the recent appearance of budgets; in particular infrastructure, equipment and ICT. As for infrastructure, it's about adapting infrastructure, health equipment, to the needs of patients and citizens. In recent years, despite a restrictive outline in the budgets of the Galego Health Service, it is possible to continue the execution of investments so that our professionals have better means of patient care. As for the modernization of health infrastructure, I have to talk logically about the finalization of the plan of the Hospital Complex of the Crown, with the equipment of the new surgeons, and also what is going to be the formalization this year of the third phase of the management plan. Also, the completion in 2016 of the master plan – as Mr Santalices spoke – of the Ourense Hospital Complex, with an amount of 18.5 million euros. Also, the director plan of the Hospital da Costa, in Burela, so many times requested and so many of the Members who are here have fought for this enlargement, in which there is already a commitment of 1.8 million in 2016, logically important for the development of that region. The architect Marcide Hospital, than in 2016 we will bid for the new director plan and the reform works will begin. Provision of equipment for the Álvaro Cunqueiro Hospital in Vigo, worth 14.9 million euros, for the Álvaro Cunqueiro, for the Vigo hospital complex. Space adaptation at the Santiago Hospital Complex, to start construction of the new Medical School as well. Completion of the work of reform and implementation of the Salnés Hospital, amounting to 4.3 million. And also, credits for doing centers, finalizing health centers that are now under construction, specifically Oia, Gondomar, Ares, Culleredo, Galeras (in Santiago), Valenzá and Couto (in Ourense), Marín, Cambre and Artexo, as well as to start other new ones, such as Melide, The Saviñao, Perero de Aguiar, The Milladoiro, etc. In this field we continue to maintain our commitment to the territorial balance and the modernization of infrastructures to continue to provide quality health care, as our citizens deserve. And also the high-tech equipment, which I already exposed in the budget presentation, the health partner, so important for the development – as I said – of the improvement of health services, and there we are going to continue – as I said – with the new equipment for the hospital complex of Vigo; also for the emergency equipment in obstetric care of the Hospital of Salnés; the equipment for the CHUAC surgeons, of the Coruña; the equipment for the health centers that we end in the coming months; also hospitalization of Chou. And remind Mrs Iglesias that also radiation therapy and nuclear medicine is already in Lugo. I don't know if she didn't know this detail, but the accelerators are already installed, in periods of testing, to start operating the nuclear gamma as well. [[Applause]] In ICT we have six big lines of projects, which I'm just going to quote for them to be marked here. First of all, it's focused on giving the patient a custom platform on the web and mobile devices. Another, focused on encouraging non-presenceal care through telemonitoring of patients in the home. A third, to facilitate professionals better tools for their clinical practice. A fourth, focused on improving health resources, focusing on emergency services, surgical programming, resource traceability and management of high health care. A fifth, focused on the safety of patients and professionals, providing them with tools to ensure the confidentiality of information management. And a sixth, dedicated to more efficient exploitation of digital data. Specifically, we will develop in 2017 in the area of Ferrol to e-patient, digital home in Lugo and A Coruña, hospital at home in Coruña and Ourense, surgery in Ourense and Santiago, alerts in Coruña, digitization in Lugo, Pontevedra and Vigo. I didn't want to forget something as important, as we also said, as it refers to professionals, to the human resources of the system. I would like to highlight as very important lines, first, the recovery of rights, both at the end of this year and in 2016, the extra payment, days of free provision; continue the process of professional stability; organize in the first half of the examinations contest-opposition of family doctors, nurses/ nurses and staff medical professional training; the convening of OPE 2016, which will be equipped with approximately 700 squares; the creation of the category of nurse specialist, also demanded by the profession; the regulation of professional itineraries so that there may be changes throughout their career; the implementation of new features, such as the e-electronic file, the visualization of Fides into mobile devices, a module for notification management; the Acude project, which consists of a new warning system for the risk of external work violence; the normalization of points of care to professionals in all EOXI; the integration of the gender perspective into human resources policies, the Equality Plan. And with regard to citizens and patients, we have to think, above all, as I said from the beginning, that the fundamental axis is the people, the citizenship, to which we owe ourselves, the reason for being really the Galego Health Service and the Health Council; citizenship, which wants more participation in terms of health and dependence. Recently developed laws, such as the Guarantee Act, as Mr. Miguel Santalices recalled, where they are already electing a doctor, choosing a nurse, choosing a hospital. And logically, in the coming months, we're going to regulate the maximum response times, so that, above all in serious pathologies, it becomes clear what the contract Sergas holds with them. We intend to deepen, in this line, a very important tool, which is the Galaga School of Health for Citizens, which conducts training activities aimed at generating more active and expert patients, but also citizens with better levels of knowledge, related to the health resources of the system and its proper use. They passed until September 30,19,185 patients, and formed what is called expert patients a total of 97. These new technologies have assumed a real revolution. As the Galego Health Service, as I mentioned earlier, we are well positioned. We should thank the citizenry, of course, for the collaboration he's showing us at all times. We need to finally listen to his voice and also get him the best we do. We want to count on them actively. And now I want to answer a little what the honourable Members have told me. First of all, the truth is that everyone who is not of my political opinion wants me somewhere else. There was a conchler in Baiona, from the opposition, who told me where he was now where best he was, as Health Counsellor. Mrs. Solla, of course, preferred her to be mayor or concierge of Baiona. It must be that I must not wrong to do so, when the opposition always loves me on the opposite side. [[Applause]] The way you talk doesn't indicate the personality or the work of a person. I can proceed with screams, insults, but I think it's not the right way we are in Parliament. I think what we have is that basically talking about dialogue, talking about ideas. [[Applause]] And I also want to claim the role of the management team I'm working with, a large management team that has a lot of experience, and that, as happened in the case right now of the change in Álvaro Cunqueiro, the opposition applauds because it says it was from the Bipartite; well, if it was from the Bipartite, it would be good. But the people who are now on the Cunqueiro Alvaro team, when I was at the Mexoneiro Hospital, fourteen years ago, were already in health management, which indicates that they are people who have experience, they are people who know the Vigo area and they are workers, who have been in the system for a long time, to achieve great results. Look, the curious thing, Mrs. Solla, is that you don't realize it, but it's the only one who talks against Vigo's Vigo hospital of the Vigo Members, because none of the others are Vigo, curiously; see there are Vigo Members here in the opposition, no one speaks ill of Vigo hospital, and then I think you don't give the information. [[Murmurs.]] It is also curious that in a 120,000-square-meter building the same pipeline is broken down in the same place, and in one of the hygienic paper rolls – eight – appear and now gases are stuck there. It's funny that in a building so large the damage is in the same place, it's also curious. [[Murmurs.]] It's funny. It's funny. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u64	Ma'am!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u65	Look, what we're clear is that Vigo needed a new health infrastructure. Just like you wanted us to go on in the General, and in the General we couldn't go on. We have to have a great infrastructure needed for the area, and it's going to be, in addition, even though some people don't like it, a reference for the city of Vigo and the metropolitan border of Vigo, and we're going to get it, as I said, because many people who are eager that this doesn't succeed. [[Murmurs.]] We're going to do it, because we have a great team of professionals in all the fields, and of course we have a solid project in which we're going to play all this time. To say that primary is not important I think it's just not to know, Mrs. Prado, nor my origin, I say in our project, that it's not important, when we're talking about medical schools and family medical associations from the first day. I'm also a family doctor; so I think I know what I'm talking about. And we're going to try to coordinate properly with each other, because we understand that the system is working very well, and of course we are, of course, we want to use it politically, but really, when we go to polls, patients, citizens, the answer is a very different one. Let's go on with it. To also say that for us... and I also think that I travel a lot, speak a lot, and do little. Well, I think a counselor's job is to know all the health infrastructures. I can assume that, of course, I know more than many of the opposition Members who are talking about health right now, and I think the only way is to know how to make decisions all the months ahead. [[Applause]] And, as I say, the future of Greek health is consolidated, it is a clear future that we have to help among all, and I would logically like to count on the opposition to support – say – improvements. Unfortunately, often proposals do not have consistency or are simply used to disqualify the work done. I think we're at an important point. Following this, with confidence in professionals, and of course listening more and more to our patients, I think the result will be very good for all the Greeks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u66	Thank you very much, Counselor. Possibility of opening a special round of clarifications. You have the floor for the Joint Group to Mrs. Iglesias Sueiro.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u67	Thank you, President. All plans fall, Mr. Santalices. I hope the plan you have for Mr. Baltar to remain in office is also a failure [[Applause]] Counselor, an poisoned inheritance, an poisoned inheritance receives you. The only solution is the recovery of a universal public health system. These are the facts, not what you bring us here today. For example, they were talking about the agreement reached at Chou, Ourense. Indeed, an agreement was reached, but at the touch of two strikes, the touch of mobilizations, when the points of that agreement, the points that called for trade unions and health personnel, they pursued improvement in the care quality of the patients, and it's not understood that they didn't sign it before the two strikes and the threat of a third. You move the mobilization blow, you move the citizen demand blow; groups of patients, like those of hepatitis C, who are forced to mobilize to achieve the medication they have the right to and return to their health. By the way, I want to claim medication for the imprisoned population from this lecture. Aren't we so human rights defenders? There's a population that doesn't receive it: the imprisoned population, Counsellor. From your office, from the interior, you manage to get this medication from the population sector – human beings. Counselor, more facts. Primary care, 19 quotas suspended in Ourense, a level of care that constitutes the axis of the public health system, and which is also the leader in the management of chronic patient processes, taking into account the aging population in the province of Ourense. For this would be a service that is not understood as being suppressed. In addition, what is required is an improvement plan, which provides a budget increase and human resources, because you don't cover the vacancies of these professionals when they're off or when they're on vacation. In Maceda, in the province of Ourense, deficiencies in pediatric care in the health center, the mobilization again. 900 signatures, which means a fifth of the population of that region, that picks up the Maceda pediatric platform. Organized citizens demanding rights. Mrs. Eloína Núñez, managing manager, does not receive them, refuses to receive this collective. Counselor, another, suppression of a pediatrician in Xinzo. Why? Because it goes to the family service at the health center. And why? For not hiring a new family nurse in a retirement vacancy. Waste disposal of vaccines, parents who have to go to Portugal to look for the vaccine. With causes of death. For example, that of ferin cough, which is proven to be effective in pregnancy, in this vaccine there is a shortage of memory vaccines, which are applied to pregnant women and to children under 6 years of age. Why? Because of the lack of government planning and the lack of interest in pharmaceuticals – which you take so well – because it's...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u68	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u69	...a low-priced medicine. Good. Parents who come under obligation to go to the media so that a law approved by you, the Law on the Rights and Guarantees of the Sick Terminals, will be complied with so that your daughter will receive palliative treatment that guarantees the right to a worthy death without necessary suffering. There's more. The rotational doors – it won't give me time – but the rotational doors that you practice so well, and that will be realized with the purchase of the Domínguez Hospital, Pontevedra, by the investment fund CVC-Quirón, which fixes Mario González, former manager of the Chuvi, which violates the Incompatibilities Act, Counsellor; a multinational investment fund, which invests in health by buying and sanitizing health centers, to subsequently sell them...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u70	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u71	...and that he has his thirst for tax havens. –I'm done. A disaster and a mortgage for Galicia in the health sector. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u72	Thank you very much, Mrs. Churches. Parliamentary Group of the BNG. You have the floor to Mrs. Prado Cores.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u73	Counselor, it became clear that you are a crack, a very high knowledge of health, which has all the virtues. My doubt is why you're going to use all those potentials. My doubt is: all that great knowledge and all that knowledge and enough experience, in which direction will you use it? And I'm afraid you will continue to use it in the same direction as your predecessor and the previous one, for a logical question: you are part of the People's Party, which is the party that is leading to the disappearance of Galicia's public health. You have just said here roundly that the future of Greek health is clarified. What he didn't say is in which direction it's clarified. And for the BNG, of course, our concern that this clarification is about consolidating what they have started, and with the intervention of the spokesperson of the People's Party it all indicates that this is how it goes. His great concern because the Law of Assurances, that law that he did was to give the rule of law to privatization, to be able to derive from the body of public health to private, is the great concern of the People's Party. So that clarification seems more than obvious. Look, as I have very little time, you just asked a number of questions here. First, he announced that the equipment for the CHUAC surgeons is contracted. I remind you that about this equipment your predecessor was to announce that they would be in operation after Holy Week of this year; we are in December and they are neither installed nor in operation. So, please, let's see if before the points pass, see if you can assume something or you can't assume it, right? And then I also assumed here that the accelerators at HULA are installed, but the promise was that they would be working this year, Counselor, would be working this year. Hemodynamics 24 hours. We don't even know what's going to happen to her, another unfulfilled promise. So, you come here saying that it turns out that they are installed, when – I insist – the promise was that they would be working. With which I fear that we will continue with this policy of announcements, of announcements, indeed, that will collect the media, but only a month later and a year later will continue to be in advertisements and not in reality. And look at one thing, Counselor: without staff there is no sanity possible, without staff there is no sanity possible, and you, the People's Party and you as heir to this inheritance, have made an ERE of 2,841 squares in Galician public health, one of the largest EREs in this country in recent years, and you have done it since 2010, when there are nearly 40,000 health professionals enrolled in the recruitment lists. So you did that ERE, eliminating squares of all kinds. You know perfectly well that between 2010 and 2014 they only carried out 10% of the replenishment rate. In 2015, where we are, they theoretically convened 50% of the vacant squares. And for next year he just announced that an OPE will be done, but also from the vacant squares generated from that moment. What does that mean? That all the losses in 2010, 11, 12, 13 and 14 will not be recovered. How many are these squares, how much do you suppose? What I just told you, Counselor: 2,841 vacant squares, that we could perfectly break you down here for specialties, for doctors, nurses, janitors, but I don't have time. That's the reality of your staff policy, combined with that precarious recruitment too, those hourly contracts, those dayly contracts, to take care of themselves and to do the work of people who develop their full-time activities. You replace that full time for once yes, a day yes and a day no...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u74	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u75	...for hours, for days. A real scandal. And look, I'm going to give you a little summary of what that black sexist from the People's Party in Galicia has been calling for these six years. Budget of the Galician Union, cut at 12.3%. Loss of more than 1,200 million accumulated, Counselor. Elimination of 2,841 public health professional squares. Disposal of more than 600 hospital beds in public centers. Waiting lists, not only for specialized care, but for primary care. And, if you like, I'll give you a few phone calls from health centers where you can call and tell them what day and song is the delay in primary care. And right now in Galicia, the fourth part of the hospital beds are already private. Counsellor, I could keep talking about almost 50% of the health budget for private health, and follow and follow. I'm afraid, Counselor, that the reality of what you want to convince us today...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u76	Finish it, Mrs. Prado, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u77	...has nothing to do with the reality that the Greeks and the Greeks live out there. I don't have time to tell you that you have the shame of talking about mental health care, when you have it practically under minimum.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u78	Thank you very much, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u79	And I could keep talking about the issues that you've been discussing here and that, of course, nothing has to do with the reality of this country's health. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u80	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Parliamentary Group of the Left Galician Alternative. You have the word to Mrs. Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u81	Thank you, President. I do consider a robbery what they're doing to us. And besides, the counselor seems to be quite delicate, I didn't hear a single insult; please make me a list of the insults that, well, we're dedicated to you to see in what terms you felt affected. And since you didn't have to answer absolutely anything and you kept explaining the policy of the laity of this councillor, of this government, you have to tell us what color is the wound of solidarity with Mr Baltar, right? Well, you said you'd answer, but the truth is you haven't, and you've been here for some time to know the answers. Or I don't know if you're going to do like Mrs Mosquera, who didn't know the answers, brought everything ready and we finally had to run out of those answers. But he's got another turn, he's got a chance to do it another time. Price Waterhouse's report, Counsellor, what are you going to ask for? He told us the financial market was safe, and it was a lie. You adopted those recommendations, 22 pages cost 220,000 euros. Why don't you provide Ana Sánchez's contract? The purges of these cosmetics are of no use to us, because that contract, Counselor, I remind you here that it has a force of two years after the opening of Vigo's new hospital. And, therefore, I understand that, even though you have now put in a public technical office, we continue to pay both things. It's true that it was the dealership who was traversing these 4 million euros, but I don't think they're going to be returned. Are they asking for responsibilities? Because we have the hospital we have, but, well, it's my fault, for questioning you. How do I get from Vigo? You can't question anything here. I must be the one I'm going to at night to break that mysterious tubing, or the judeomasonic contubernance that breaks the pipes. Although, well, in Mr. Santalices' hospitals, recently premiered, it's normal for them to fall down ceilings every day and break down pipes. Those are the hospitals of the People's Party. By the way, the Health Insurance Act. You're not like you to pretend about her. Two years after his approval, a law that passed the People's Party frankly in solitary, because no one supported her, neither we here nor anyone outside, and two years later since it was passed – since December 9th, I think I remember – because you weren't able to comply with your own law. It's a shame, isn't it? Two years, they're not able to comply with the maximum waiting times, and the only thing it's served is to continue making transfers to private. Since you assumed here the times of attention, it would be nice if you were to give us the transfer data to private clinics, to the centers arranged by each EOXI, which we always ask and never do. That's the transparency of this government, isn't it? That's what the hidden privatization served. And in the case of Vigo, between the Health Insurance Act and the chapuza of Vigo's new hospital, because what's going on was what was planned from the beginning: massive advertising campaign of Povisa – also other private ones, because my home, my mailbox, also arrived from Fatima, by the way – to move those patients and those patients to that center. And, of course, people are afraid, because this is about their health and a lot of people are doing it. The perfect plan has come out, there are plans that fall, but there are others that are obviously doing well. You haven't answered about the cuts in HIV and drug addiction, and the prevention of alcoholism in and out of children. Laundromat policy. You didn't explain the Farm Industry agreement. You've been living in the priority drug catalogue for six years. But here we don't get any of those agreements that you're doing behind you so that the big multinational pharmacy...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u82	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u83	...keep winning. You haven't explained anything about the privatization of high technology and your relationship to that contract with Mr. Amancio. You leave everything to the next government, the privatizations made and also the absence of maintenance of constructions, infrastructures. How can you announce 1 million euros for a hospital like Ferrol's, which has five floors without a bathroom in the rooms, which has an obvious deterioration, because it's been many years without getting adequate maintenance? How can you assume from the Burela project six years later, when your own mayor had the land at his disposal already in 2011? How can you talk about professionals, when you abuse them every day, suppressing their work rights? Do you know how the Urn, Ourense, Vigo emergencies are? We live, we live in absolute precariousness. And, therefore, Mr. Counsellor – finished because I don't have time - we have nothing public: Ourense and Ferro, Ferrovial; Vigo, of Actiona; the high technology, Philips and several; Central Laboratorio, de Cerba Internacional. Add it up and go on. It's very cold in the Council, Mr. Counsellor, it's very cold in Montepío. Are you going to fix some of this in the remaining months?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u84	Thank you very much, Mrs. Solla. Mrs Acuña do Campo has the floor for the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u85	Thank you again, President. Well, I'm going to start with Mr. Santalices, just to tell you that the interest of the People's Party in public health was very clear with his intervention, so well-elaborated, so well-prepared and so well-adjusted to matter. And, Counselor, you don't do everything right, you're new, but it's curious that your experienced team hadn't warned you that it's not right, when the elections are already called, to announce arrangements to new health centers, to Melide, but you but the advisor. Look, that's not good from the ethical point of view, in addition to being an election crime. Mrs. Solla, I don't think I know, I don't know if it's you, if it's the Mayor of Vigo who's putting gasses and hygienic paper in the pipes, right?; it seems that this is what the counsellor thinks about it. But, ironies aside, see, Counselor, don't you worry that Vigo's private hospital, which was the largest infrastructure in the world made in times of crisis, however, is causing an escape – I don't know if it's 3,000 if 4,000 people running again for Povervisa? Is there any clearer evidence of failure, Counselor? Look, you're not going to change anything, and after you've heard it, I'm afraid nothing, and, in addition, for two reasons. The first is because he can't; I've already told him who's in charge of the council is Mr. Feijóo, I've already told him that the budget is already done and I've already told him and I've reminded him that his team is the same. But it's not going to change anything because you don't want to, and you don't want to change anything because you're also from the People's Party and you don't believe in our public health system. Look, his predecessor has not been stopped by the deterioration that has made the system, no, nor by the massive privatization of our health. She was terminated by giving her husband the job, because of the problem of Aspergillus – yes – by the scandals of the Bioethics Commission and the broche, the Andrea case. Maybe that's why you rushed, when you arrived at the Council, not looking for solutions to the loss of universality, or the recovery of Vigo's new private hospital, or remedying the dismantling of primary care, or the agony of mental health, or emergency collapses. No, you have hurried to modify the Bioethics Commission; yes, it has kept the members who were before and who were faithful not to ethics but to the People's Party, but it has, however, changed the rules; now they have to be quiet, not quiet, and they can only think of what the Council allows them to do. I think that's called ethics according to the People's Party. And I don't know if this seems to you like a useful committee for bioethics; it seems to me to be a useful committee for the People's Party. But after seeing what's going on in Ourense, we see that's how PP understands ethics, for the sake of Mr. Baltar and in this case not the interest of Mr. Feijóo. But, look, with ethics or without it, I'm going to keep asking you about what you're worried about, about the problems the system has, about these professionals. Counsellor, the situation of professionals is extremely serious, and you know that they are essential. I was talking to him about retirements, but look at the possible ones; the possible ones don't know if you know they're penalized until they get sick; but it's just that they're done, if they talk, they're threatened with files. That's the reality, Counselor. And talk to us about the tech partner, too. Look, it turns out...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u86	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u87	...that in order to renew the high technology of the public health system, you've spent five years with which, when you've finished and when you've helped, you've become obsolete. And what are you going to do with such damaged health material, broken primary care? How are you going to take care of the chronicles? With the machines, with the situation of primary care? With the mess of vaccines, with the additive behaviors, with the investigation – shot –, with the innovation – absolutely privatized – with the collapsed emergencies? What will you do to comply with the laws? What are you going to do, Counsellor, to return the credibility to Mr. Feijóo, the PP, the Council and the management? Look, Mr. Vázquez, listen to your friend and give up. Because, look, with the same ideologist, with the same budget and the same team, the problem is irresoluble, and he's going to kill him, politically speaking.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u88	Thank you very much, Mrs. Acuña. Mr. Santalices. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u89	Thank you, Madam President. Well, you see, Counselor, they don't want you here, eh! But, well, you know what politics is like. I'll take advantage of your presence to make some requests, because I think we should take advantage of your presence for aspects that concern citizenship. I know there's concern because in the attached building at Vigo General Hospital, which was the tower, we know it's owned by the Social Security Treasury, but the attachments are made by the Galician Health Service, there's going to be a continuous point of attention, and there's a certain concern that this will have complementary systems, as it can be radiology, as it can be a laboratory and so on. I would ask you that this, which is located in the center of the city and which may be a very consolidated continuing point of attention, because it is for before you meet the emergencies of the Hospital Álvaro Cunqueiro, which, as far as possible, may have additional services for emergency care. You talked about something very important that we've been here claiming for a long time, which is the unit of stroke. You announced that there will be a stroke unit in Álvaro Cunqueiro, and I have to ask that this stroke unit... I come from a province where 1,100 strokes occur a year..., 1,100... let me make this request to the advisor, who interests me more than talking to you. [[Madam Acuña do Campo speaks words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u90	Ma'am! Come on, please, let me talk. Do the favor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u91	Let me talk about this, which interests me the most.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u92	Mr. Santalices, continue.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u93	Look, I'm more interested in this for Ourense than talking to you now. And say, open letters. Look, 1,100 strokes are produced in Ourense. I think it's very nice that this unit goes to the Cunqueiro Alvaro, but Ourense can't ignore the pathology of the stroke. And we want that to be through a shared area, essentially avoiding the patient's displacement. And that goes through some of the steps you've already taken or you've pushed. The interventionist radiology guard, which is fundamental, will have to deploy other systems to prevent patient displacement. Ourense doesn't pay attention to the pathology of the stroke. [[Applause]] Also, Counsellor, this Parliament unanimously approved the attention of the medullary injured in the southern part of Galicia, the attention to the review. We're not asking for a new unit here. What we ask is that the attention to patients who have a spinal cord injury, which is their review, can be done in the south area; in particular, we will ask for it in the Cunqueiro Alvaro. I ask that this be fulfilled, because moving to a simple consultation a wounded medullar to The Crown is a trauma and it is a very big problem for all families. So I ask you to do this in that sense. Also, Counsellor, in this Parliament it has been approved with these votes, not with these votes, that here is the result of the single record of acute myocardial infarction mortality, but by valuing the most important parameter: what is the mortality that occurs in those patients who do not access anxioplasty in less than 120 minutes? If the result of this, when you bring it to Parliament, you point out that Ourense and Lugo have a significantly higher mortality, there is no debate, Counsellor, there is no debate; we must walk towards assistance that avoids mortality. This is serious, this is what we had to talk about today in this Parliament, far from telling you whether you should continue in Baiona or whether you... you should take advantage of the advisor when he comes to Parliament and ask him something that has a certain content. And I planted these three things that are fundamental to the population. And today the population can be satisfied with this appearance, because it sees that there is a future in the Cunqueiro Alvaro, which is settled, regardless of the shortcomings that may occur. What can I tell you about the mishap I had at General Hospital when I made the master plan, at Ourense hospitals or even in Toén? Daily incidences, daily incidences. So I'm on this subject what I ask you to do is to meet all this. Bipartite and appointments. And with this, Madam President, I'm done.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u94	Yes, go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u95	I can tell you something about that. There's just been some appointments in the Cunqueiro Alvaro, which I didn't know if they were from the Bipartite or they weren't. If I'm from the Bipartite, I don't care. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] What matters is that they're good managers. What I assure you is one thing: if I were ruling the Bipartite, neither you nor I were appointed. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u96	Quiet, please! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Quiet, please! Excuse me, Counselor. Quiet, please! Mr. Gallego. Mr. Gallego, please. You have the floor to close the debate of the Health Counsellor. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] You have the word, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u97	Thank you very much, Madam President. I just think there's a speech in the opposition that you've chosen at a given time, it's going to take you for years and years, which is the famous privatization of health care. There's no argument, no argument to say what's said. What you can say is that over the past four years, the budget of the Galician Union has decreased by EUR 4 billion, and, despite everything, the Government of Galician Union continues to wager for health, devoting 41% of its budget to health. That's the really important thing. [[Applause]] For patients entering the Cunqueiro Alvaro, who are treated in the Cunqueiro Alvaro, the perception is very, very good. That's the important thing about Álvaro Cunqueiro. And to say that if you privatize a hospital when the General and the Mexoeiro, by the way, were also at the time of the Bipartite, these two hospitals with almost all of the privatized parasanitary services, and collect what was in the non-Greek health care, everywhere, and concentrate them on a concessionaire. The rest yesterday, in fact, some left-wing party said they wanted to recover the General's health tower, for health use. The truth is, I don't understand anything. If what was requested for many years was the improvement of health infrastructure in the Vigo area and finally the summary is that we have to go back to the General's tower, then I think that in order to make this path it was best not to start. Bioethics, bioethics. I didn't do a Bioethics Commission. There was a renewal of the order of bioethics where precisely one of the things that got out of the order was that the president was the general director of health care, as he was so far. And right now the president will elect those members, who will have the first meeting within a week. And I think it's very good that there's a Bioethics Committee, which tells us not in hot weather, but throughout the months, which are the right conditions that can affect patients. It's Melide. Man, there can't be a health center. Why can't I go see a health center? But I didn't just go to see that, I went to see many others, and I'm going to keep seeing them during this period and throughout the coming year. I think it's one of my functions and also very important. I'm not gonna talk to him about my friend, because he's already talked about him and then I'm not talking about him, huh? [[Laughter]] There's one thing that's curious. We say we all want people to choose, that people can decide what they want, don't we, with their criteria. However, when some patients choose a doctor, a nurse or a hospital, then we criticize them, we say why they choose that hospital. It's just that it's still up to us, that we've directed people to choose this hospital or another hospital. You'll have to see the statistics in a few months to know exactly what changes there are of both a doctor and a nurse and a hospital. And logically we're going to publish them. But the important thing is that patients can choose at all times where they want to be treated. The emergency surgery that Mrs. Prado said. There are regulated surgeries in the CHUAC and emergency wards. The emergency officers are the ones who are going to be inaugurated, they're going to start working now, before the end of the year, those you said they had to be this year. And I'm curious that now the problem of radiotherapy in Lugo is that instead of starting in December, it's going to start in January or March. I think the problem wasn't that, the problem was that patients didn't have a proper treatment with the latest radiotherapy technology and now they're going to have it. The topic of vaccines is also a topic you're using, you're using people who don't know much about vaccination. Vaccination, the logic is that it affects the population and that it is with technical criteria, okay? So, with meningitis B right now we're at the slightest moment of the incidence of the entire history of Galicia, and where exactly the biggest incidence of morbidity is mortality from 0 to 2 years, and not at other ages, as many people are saying. So it's not a problem right now, but, of course, from the Council, both for this and for any other vaccine, it's going to be on technical reports and what the technicians say, not politicians of one or another sign, not technicians; that's what it has to be. And I was saying Mr. Santalices that I don't speak at Vigo's hospital. Well, I'm talking about what I have to say, the important thing is that we all do and build a reference hospital. If I can say today that since this morning the prices of the parking lot of Álvaro Cunqueiro are the lowest in the city of Vigo, because we are in an area without urbanization that still knows that a hospital is going to be made — well it is true that in record time, four years— the mayor of Vigo did not want to urbanize that area, and now we are announcing that parking is going to be made, and parking lots and parking lots, but not today, no. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Now, what we have to say is that we're going to make it easy for people to park, of course at much cheaper prices than all the municipal concessions of Vigo Town Hall. [[Applause]] And Annex II is obviously going to continue to have a very important health function with rehabilitation, with radiology, with the health center, which will increase quotas on those that are already there, but also for an ongoing point of attention, the important point that many people avoid having to go to the hospital, because it will be cared for and treated at that same center, at the center of Vigo, and we'll logically deal with in very few days that it will be put into operation. The review of spinal cord injuries. We believe that we have a lot of possibilities to be able to accept a number of patients not very numerous, but obviously with many difficulties to make moves, and we understand that the review can lead to. Besides, with the protocol of 061, which I said earlier, which will put in touch all those affected. Urgent attention and then a periodic review in centers like the Cunqueiro Álvaro. And, of course, hemodynamics. There is a commitment from this Parliament to, after the end of the six months of the register, a very important record, which is being made in Galicia, which does not exist elsewhere, which will give us very important features of mortality, the morbidity of myocardial infarction in Galicia, and will therefore be published, and, on the basis of criteria clearly described for scientific societies, we can make planning decisions. I think that's what we have to do. And to finish, I believe that for us, with these and other projects that we have described in this period of time, our goal is to contribute to improving health and promoting maximum effectiveness, quality and safety and, of course, equity and satisfaction in the provision of health services while ensuring the sustainability of the health system. I want to end by thanking all the professionals in the Galician Health Service and the Health Council for their work, energy and effort on a daily basis. It's the best stimulus and impulse to continue working for the improvement of the health and quality of life of the Greeks and the Greeks. Our health system is a service you can trust, it solves very important problems in times of difficulty in people's lives. We believe in public health and work to maintain it and improve it, for its present and its future. This path of modernization and continuous improvement of systems we have to go through it all, with everyone's approach, with everyone's help, with everyone's commitment, for everyone's sake, and I would also like to count on your lordships. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u98	Thank you very much, Counselor. Mr. Losada, what do you want the word for? Mr. Losada, what do you want the word for? [[Mr. Losada Álvarez pronounces words that are not perceived.]] [[Mr. Losada Álvarez pronounces words that are not perceived.]] No, let's see... silence, please! [[Murmurs.]] Mr. Losada, Mr. Losada, I won't give you the floor, first of all, because you've already said all you had to say... Sorry! and forgive the others, I am speaking to Mr. Losada, and as you have already said all that I had to say without having the word and we all listen to it for the tone of voice, I will no longer give you the word. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u99	These two appearances are piled up. Mr. Economy, Employment and Industry's appearance, on his own request, to report on the general lines of action of his department. Opinion of the Economic, Employment and Industry Councillor, at the request of the 18 Members and Members of the G.P. of the Galician Socialists, to explain the new employment policy
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u100	You have the floor for your first speech, Mr. Francisco Conde López, Economic, Employment and Industry Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u101	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, 54,100 persons less unemployed since the beginning of this legislation. This is the figure that best reflects that things in Galicia are changing for the better, the number, gentlemen, that encourages us to trust. One confidence that this government continues to work to respond to our main goal, which is to return jobs to those who continue to be unemployed. To this end we will maintain the course of employment policy developed so far, but we will also introduce the novelties that the new economic scenario of recovery and the flogging of future budgets will allow us to realize. In this context, it is precisely where the decision by the Government of Greece to combine economic and industrial promotion policies with active employment policies needs to be placed. Because, ladies and gentlemen, we have only one goal, which is nothing but creating more jobs and of the highest quality. And, having recovered the credibility of our accounts and our economy, it's time to play this game on a single board. But before taking into account the lines of the new Council of Economics, Employment and Industry, I want to convey the deep appreciation and appreciation of this government to the Greek society for making possible change in our country, because this government does not forget to acknowledge and thank those who have been able to take the initiative and face the hard stage that has touched us all. They are the workers, the industries, the pemes, the autonomous and the social partners. They, of course, are the real protagonists of recovery, which has already begun in Galicia. They are therefore responsible for now that growth rates are above 2% for the first time since 2008. Because lords, Greeks, and Greeks we are fighting people, positive people and, above all, responsible people. And this government, ladies and gentlemen, also knew to be next to the citizens, with serious and realistic policies, directed at correcting frivolities and experiments that led us to an unbearable situation that we all had to deal with. [[Applause]] Stephen Hawking said intelligence is the ability to adapt to change, and change was, first, to adjust the deficit and introduce the necessary reforms to curb the fall in the economy and the destruction of employment. Having done this, we can already focus on supporting our companies to grow and promote new opportunities for all the Greeks and their families. This is of course the highest priority of the German Government, which necessarily goes by the company's side and the renewal and modernization of our productive fabric, because this is the only alternative we have as a country to manage the new economic cycle and this is also the only opportunity we have to respond to the commitment of social and territorial cohesion that we have with the Greek society. This model involves working on the skills and talents of the workers, because they, ladies and gentlemen, are the key element in creating new country capabilities and being able to play our cards in a smart way and make the final leap to the knowledge and innovation economy, which will be a future opportunity for the creation of stable and quality jobs. So that's our strategic government bet. And that strategic bet is based on planning, planning and consensus with economic and social agents, and it focuses on the three main elements of strategic planning of this board: the strategy of smart specialization, the internationalization strategy and the Galicia Industry 4.0 Competitiveness Agenda. There are three documents that collect government planning by 2020, three instruments which, in a coordinated way, guide us to take the right direction and which are showing positive results. Positive results such as the fact that Galicia is the third community with a higher increase in R & D spending during 2014, with a rise of 1.8 %, compared to a decrease in the state average of 1.5. In addition, in the case of companies, the increase in R & D expenditure was 5.7%, compared to the fall of 1,8 % in Spain. On the other hand, from January to September this year, Welsh exports continue to increase; in this case, 4.4 per cent, with respect to the same period of the year 2014; data, ladies and gentlemen, which is making 2015 one of the best years of Galician history and, above all, lords, which is making this legislation the legislation with better results than it has achieved in terms of internationalization. And if we talk about the industrial production index, we also find positive results, with an increase in this case of 3.7% in the accumulated up to September. In this indicator, let me highlight the evolution of the manufacturing industry, which is why we are betting and which is growing by 4.9%, when the average in Spain does so by 3.7. In fact, the industry is creating jobs in Galicia at a rate of about 3%, with about 5,000 jobs more in the past year. All this I say, gentlemen, without any triumphalism, and always from prudence, and being perfectly aware that we have much to do. But we have to be fair too and recognize that we are leaving behind a truly difficult and complicated economic situation. So now we are in a position to give a new boost to employment by establishing and promoting new synergies with economic policies and industrial policy in our country. Because, ladies, we don't comply. We didn't comply with two consecutive years of international unemployment casualties, a situation that brings us to levels below what we were five years ago. We don't comply with the reduction in the distance between men and women on unemployment lists. We don't agree that the youth unemployment rate goes down to Galicia in almost six points in the last year. And we don't agree that two out of three employees are today undefined, with a full-time employment contract. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a strong desire to improve, a strong desire to improve as well as the Greek society has, and we are fully aware that we are still aware that economic recovery will reach all homes, that it will reach all homes through employment, quality employment, and that workers will also regain their purchasing power. That, of course, is the shared goal of this government and of the Galician society. In this sense, I would like to reiterate that our will is to give continuity to the employment policy plan that is agreed every year at the sectoral conference, with the various programmes that you already know. At the same time, however, we will take advantage of the new structure of the Council to adapt our employment policy to the issues that concern us the most. They worry about us, ladies and gentlemen, encouraging the employability of the Greeks and creating quality jobs; they are concerned about supporting self-employed people, entrepreneurs and social-economic enterprises; and they are concerned, in particular, about taking new steps towards effective equality at work. And that's what we're going to do from the active employment policies - of course - but we're going to do it from the internationalization policies, the innovation, competitiveness, trade and R & D policies. All our economic and industrial policies will focus on their synergy with the active employment policy. We will establish five lines of action: improving training, quality and equality in employment, stimulating entrepreneurship, strengthening services and employment 4.0. Let me briefly outline these five lines, which are the main axes of our employment policy: training, quality and equality, entrepreneurship, services and employment 4.0. Ladies and gentlemen, training will be one of the priorities of Council policy, and we will devote more than 75 million euros to this in 2016. And we're going to do this with an integral approach, which includes all the workers, whether or not they're active, and within the framework of the implementation of a vocational training strategy for employment. As I said earlier, the main resource of a country is the talent of its citizens and its workers, and, if talent fails and does not develop properly, we will not be able to meet the needs of a labour market, ladies and gentlemen, in continuous evolution. So first of all, we will strive to ensure that the training and learning that we give to the unemployed workers is useful and valid, and that is why we will review the demands and prospects of the labour market, as well as the commitments of insertion, and of course we will continue to pursue this positive and necessary discrimination for women and those who have the most difficulties of insertion. [[Applause]] In this context, we will also promote vocational training for employment, in collaboration with companies and entities, because we know that this is the way and that is the most suitable channel for training professionals who successfully develop in a changing work environment and demanding what the current work environment is like. We will also promote training actions in transversal skills, such as ICTs and languages, where we will carry out specific programs for those under 30 years of age. And we will also prepare, ladies and gentlemen, our young people and our girls to take part in the two great challenges of the future in which we are working: innovation and internationalization. I want to remember that in 2016 we will launch a new program so that two hundred young Greek researchers, future researchers, can participate in an R & D+i department of a Greek company. And we'll also make it easier for a hundred more Thursdays to be trained abroad and to facilitate their recruitment into foreign trade tasks for small and medium-sized Greek companies. Finally, we will promote the training of workers in companies and their management frameworks, because they, too, ladies and gentlemen, have training needs. And we'll do it with two great news. On the one hand, a training line focused on the strategic sectors and on the emerging sectors of our community; on the other hand, the Management Training programme will become a lever to improve Galicia's excellence and business competitiveness, based on training and excellence in business management. In addition to training, secondly, we will take steps to advance quality and equality in employment. We know that progress in this direction is slow, and sometimes they're also difficult. But we also know that they are essential to ensure the state of well-being and the economic and demographic model that we want for Galicia and what we are involved in and working on every day. We will therefore continue to carry on with the aid for contracting to companies and entities, taking precedence as far as possible over indefinite recruitment. And we will look for new formulas to stimulate more stable employment, formulas that we will agree with economic and social agents and that will aim to address the most vulnerable groups; measures that, in any case, will be added to the general rate of EUR 100 and to the minimum EUR 500 that the State already offers to support stable recruitment. In the case of equality in employment between men and women, we will continue to help and measures we have already taken to promote female employment, and we will do so with special attention to women who are victims of gender-based violence. We will strengthen the equality plans in companies and, of course, we will continue to work with the Labour Inspectorate, strengthening the actions aimed at pursuing discrimination. But we know that we need to apply new measures that help us to be more effective. And so I am in a position to announce to you that we will urge the Galego Labour Relations Council to negotiate a framework agreement on equal opportunities for men and women, to develop the potential that allows the law of Greece; an agreement that will already come forward and count on the support and commitment of the Galician Council to be an instrument with concrete measures agreed upon by the economic and social agents, taken into account by the Greek sector and business reality and capable of producing practical results in the correction of the inequalities that are still at stake. Even so, we maintain our commitment to promoting employment among people with disabilities, mainly through the 114 special employment centres we have in Galicia and which, as you know, are offering more than 2,000 jobs. And lastly, I would like to mention the concern and occupation of the Government for correcting labor deficiency. In this sense, we are advised that the new Welsh occupational health and safety strategy will include concrete measures that respond to solutions to the current situation. The third line of action will focus on the autonomous and small, autonomous and small enterprises that are the cornerstone of our productive fabric. We know: they represent most of the jobs we have now, but most importantly, they're also the key to continuing to generate many more in the future. We therefore need more autonomous and small companies, but also stronger ones, and therefore we will immediately convene the Bureau of the Self, which will be the catalyst for the sector in order to cope with the process of economic recovery. In concrete terms, we'll keep the help for the new self-employed and hire workers to grow up. We will also bet on the creation of micro-enterprises and also pay special attention to the development of the social economy in Galicia. That is why, as you know, last Thursday we adopted at the Council of the Council the Social Economy Bill, which was referred to this Parliament, which includes, among other measures, the creation of cooperatives by under 30 years old, deducting their social capital; and also including an initiative by which we will launch a new venture capital line, of 5 million euros, and we will continue to support the different incentives to support these types of projects. In addition, we will bring advice and funding to our autonomous and our small and medium-sized enterprises, and we will do so through the Galician Enterprise Unit, the Business Angels Network, of the instruments that generate liquidity through Jeremiah's loans and the European Investment Bank loans. Of course, we will continue to work with the younger ones, with the entrepreneurs, through the accelerators like Galicia Open Future, Via Galicia, or AgroBiotech; or also through that focus of entrepreneurship in the automotive sector, which we will soon convene, to promote industrial entrepreneurship in a strategic sector for Galicia. Initiatives that will complement each other to provide comprehensive support that will already be added to the work we have done in simplifying the procedures to open a new business. You see that through Galicia's Entrepreneurship and Competitiveness Act right now, generally speaking, in Galicia it's no longer necessary to process a municipal license; a business can only be opened with a prior communication. We will continue to work on administrative simplification, and we will continue to complement the various measures that the Central Government has also put in place. I am talking about the flat rate for self-employed people, the compatibility of unemployment benefit with the start of self-employment, and also about social security benefits for family members or family rest. As a fourth priority line of employment policy, we will throw ourselves into giving our workers and citizens the best services; services that will have their main focus in the Public Employment Service. This year, we have incorporated 126 new technicians into the employment offices, which will improve the employability and employment of the most difficult-to-use applicants, including the youngest and the long-term unemployed. Staff who will join about 400 workers who are already serving in public employment offices. To ensure the best possible quality, we will update the training of all of them, equip them with the tools to better know Galician businesses and the economic context, and strengthen investments for the modernization of our offices, allocating 80% more resources. Similarly, in this year we will continue to support the network of employees that we have in the field of employment guidance and promotion, with more than 500 technicians distributed throughout the territory of Greece; a collaboration that has been strengthened for decades, with municipalities and with non-profit entities, and which has only one objective: to make everyone accessible, in their own locality, the information, guidance and dynamisation services of employment. Finally, an effort to provide the best services, for which we will rely on the experience of the Public Employment Service, along with the mentors and informers, who will work to facilitate citizens to find a job that fits their characteristics, and also, gentlemen, that meets the demand of the labour market itself. And of course, yes, ladies and gentlemen, we'll also see that the Greek workers are prepared for the revolution that Industry 4.0 is about. Galicia's reindustrialization, centered on intelligent factories, needs people working with new skills and new values, which go beyond the simple management of technology. He needs more creative people and people willing to change, who can anticipate trends and build new ideas. It needs people, workers, who can bring added value, both through business management and through their own operators, intermediate paintings and technologists. Ladies and gentlemen, Industry 4.0 is much more than technology. Industry 4.0 is, above all, synonymous with specialized employment, qualified employment and higher wages. In this sense, advice will work on training our best talent. To this end, within the framework of active employment policies we will promote a programme for the formation of management and intermediate frameworks in industry 4.0 trends and technologies, and open the door to employment 4.0 and worker 4.0. Because we're going to elaborate, ladies and gentlemen, a study of the professional profiles that are linked to the new production model to identify the new key competencies and carry out the actions towards their learning. To deny Industry 4.0, to deny the training needs of our workers to adapt to Industry 4.0 is to deny this country's industrial future, and of course this government will not deny the productive fabric or its workers that opportunity. These are, therefore, the main guidelines that will guide the work of the Economic, Employment and Industry Council, with a more direct relationship in employment. And, ladies and gentlemen, I can announce that all of them will be part of a new employment agenda that we will activate next January. A new agenda is in line with the economic recovery we are experiencing and the need to adapt to the new demands of the labour market. A new schedule will serve as a response to the professional profiles that need our companies to compete. A new agenda that will aim to design and apply strategies that allow us to create jobs, and create jobs for...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u102	Quiet, please. Go ahead, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u103	I was trying to move them, ladies and gentlemen, that all the guidelines that will guide the Employment, Employment and Industry Council in relation to employment will form part of a new employment agenda. A new agenda that told them we'll activate in January, a new agenda – straight – which will be consistent with the economic recovery we're living and the need to adapt to the demands of the labour market. A new agenda, ladies and gentlemen, that has to respond to the professional profiles that need our companies, professional profiles oriented towards Industry 4.0...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u104	Quiet, quiet. Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u105	I was saying a new agenda that will respond to the professional profiles that our companies need in order to compete, because, in fact, the requirement to modernise our productive fabric also implies that workers acquire the professional profiles needed to deal with them. It's a new agenda, ladies and gentlemen...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u106	I beg you to keep quiet because the counselor doesn't have time, and I think he's on his right to, if he interrupts... No, no. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u107	He said we're going to push a new job schedule, and we're going to push a new job schedule that we're going to activate in January, which will be consistent with economic recovery and will respond to professional profiles. It will be a new agenda which will be cross-cutting and will integrate the rest of the economic and industrial policies of the Government: innovation, internationalisation, competitiveness, financing and vocational training. We bet so, of course, ladies and gentlemen, by creating synergies, because we know that we are faced with a binomial that goes back to food; a binomial in which policies to strengthen self-employed people, pemmes and industries in Galicia are the best way we have to support our workers, and at the same time we know that if we apply policies that promote the employability of our workers, we will be able to make our productive fabric strong, because workers are the soul and the talent of companies. A new employment schedule that we will evaluate with the economic and social partners because this is our way of doing things, because together we have been able to face a very difficult period of our history, together we are growing up and together we will make the recovery that we now envision reaching all the homes. [[Applause]] I hope, ladies and gentlemen, that you can join this agreement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u108	Thank you, Counselor. Round of parliamentary groups. Joint Parliamentary Group. Mrs. Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u109	Thank you, President. Good morning to all and to all. Good morning, Counselor. Of course, I don't know what you put in your schedule, but there's an agenda that's clear to all of us. But an agenda that looks like 2015, or could be 2014 because apart from a completely electoral year propaganda speech, empty of content, without concrete action, came here to tell us a story; a story without much further, without concreteity, without concrete valuation. Say 54,100 unemployed less since 2009. And I ask you... in this legislation. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Good. I've understood you since 2009. In this legislation. And I ask you, what quality does that job have? How much of that job is possible? How much of that job is part-time? What is your translation into indefinite jobs for the full day? Then you talk about what the jobs are going to be returned. They don't return. What's destroyed, what you've helped and helped to destroy, is destroyed. So now we have to create industrial and business fabric to create jobs. You destroyed him, he won't recover. How they destroyed and ended up with the rights of the working class, they'll have to recover and they'll have to see how it's done. Besides, he talks about slackness in the budgets. It works in budgets when we're in a situation that I'll then go through. And that's enough to say they're next to the citizens correcting frivolities. The only frivolous man here was the government of the Feijóo Nuñez; he was the only frivolous. Many thanks to the citizens, to the public workers and to the working class for stopping what you imposed on them, for enduring those cuts and for being condemned to live in misery because you wanted it that way. And you're talking business priorities, but you're not talking about what counterparts are going to ask businesses for in return for that priority. What you didn't say is that in total, without a job, there are 222,092 people at the end of October; 167,000 people unemployed more than in 2009, and this without taking into account that the active population has fallen to 57,200 people, which would therefore increase to nearly 300,000 people unemployed in Galicia today. A loss of employment of 4.3%, compared to 1.2% of the state. That's your great work, this great government's work during these years of crisis. 143,000 jobs were destroyed in Galicia, of which more than 37,000 generate industrial jobs; with a 12.4% drop in Galicia in comparison to almost half, 6.7% in the state. Longterm unemployment has increased by 109,000 since 2009. They are 109,000 more long-term unemployed people, who are in a total of 154,000 long-term unemployed people in our country; that is, without benefit, living in the most extreme poverty. Only 1 in 5 unemployed people are entitled to the coverage of unemployed people, the rest live in charity, family or social services. The consequences go far in time, and one thing we don't talk about is that long-term unemployed people, many of them 40, 45 or 50 years old, who have been quoted for over 30 years, will be poor pensioners, and you don't care about it. This seems to be all about it, and what's going on now has tremendous consequences for the future because people in their 50s find it hard to hire them. They have a lot of training, they have a lot of experience, but they're 50 or 45 or over 45 years old and they're not going to hire them. And that will give rise to poor pensioners -- a generation of poor pensioners in whom you're not thinking about anything. Wage depreciation is clear that it didn't help to improve the economic situation, it didn't help to generate jobs. Job continued to be destroyed, EREs were scandalous, without having to justify economic losses. Labour reform was deadly to the world of work. And you come here now to put flowers, to whom? Of course, they should ask forgiveness to start; ask forgiveness to the working class for all the harm they've done to him. EPA data reveal that in Galicia there are 70,000 workers and other workers with a salary of less than 5,000 euros, i.e. a salary of less than 351 euros gross per month. You live with 351 euros a month! And then come and tell us here how grateful you are to the working class. It's a real indecency! There are 100,000 Greeks who work part-time because they don't get a full-time job. 92% of people with the lowest wages work part-time. That's another great drama from our world of work. You're saying that you're going to make an agreement to end discrimination against women in the world of work. I put forward a motion in the previous plenary session, so that the Guide to Good Practices in Equality in Collective Negotiation might be put into practice, and the People's Party voted against, voted against! You're talking about support and fighting against gender-based violence, but wage and labour discrimination is institutional gender violence. There's no need to negotiate what's in the law. The law says there can be no discrimination on the grounds of gender, and you consent to it, and they still say that it has to be negotiated. There's nothing to negotiate, we have to pursue collective bargaining that discriminates, cancel those agreements and force them to recognize equality because it's the law, and you can't interpret the law to your liking. It's already amazing that I'm talking about the addicts, and that I'm talking about the addicts in special centers. In politics with the dependents, the goal was to integrate into normal centres and normal companies, sharing jobs with the rest of the workers, not working in special employment centres, with agreements that, of course, are much lower than the agreement of large companies, which they are not asked to comply with the regulations as regards the number of dependent jobs they have to have by large companies. And you're talking about occupational health in a year where work accidents have increased, especially serious and very serious accidents, even accidents resulting from death. What have they done so far? Precautionary leads to accidents at work. It's your fault, it's this government's fault, the increase in work accidents. It is time to accept that the measures taken so far have not helped to create jobs, have not helped create jobs, have only helped to continue to destroy jobs, create precarious jobs, increase poor workers and increase social inequality. You were talking about strategic sectors. I'd love to finally tell me which are the strategic sectors for the People's Party, because he never said which are the strategic sectors. Is it an automotive strategic sector? For the automation closed in 2014 with a billing of 2.6 % lower than in 2013, according to Ceaga; it is missing to see how it closes in 2015. Entrepreneurs figure at 18.150 the number of direct jobs, which means 4% less than in 2013; employment in the automotive industry has been destroyed. My time is up. The turnover of ICT is 4.6% higher than in 2013, but companies are almost all micro-enterprises, so they have no chance of further increasing. 77.1% of information technology workers belong to the general regime and 23% are autonomous, so we're talking about micro-enterprises. In the wood sector – I don't know if it's strategic – we're also clear that we're not supporting the sector. It considers it necessary the sector itself to promote a forest policy that encourages modern forestry. Well-being, culture and tourism. They haven't done anything either. I'm out of time and I've got a lot more to tell you, because it's really tough all the politics they've had in relation to employment. Everything! Even the reform of the energy sector has seriously harmed the Greek companies. And you deny that there's a bill from Galicia, a quota from Wales, for electricity. As it happens now, and today it is seen as there is no help for the transport of goods by road, the only community that has no discount; and being a peripheral community to which it is therefore more difficult to export its products. All propaganda, no measure that really solves the problems of the working class, the problems of the Italian productive tissue. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u110	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. Mr. Jorquera.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u111	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Counselor. You, Counselor, are counsellor – worth redundancy – from the beginning of the legislation and appear less than a year from the end, on your own request, to explain the general lines of your department, as if your department were starting to walk. Look, I have to admit that you're not one of those advisors who resists coming. I've lost count of the times you showed up in this House throughout this legislation. But as much as he comes along, we still don't know what economic strategy he has for Galicia his department; of course, if he has any. Unless you consider having an economic strategy to consist of that continuous repetition of phrases that you have been used to when you show up, or of that continuous repetition of propaganda labels such as Industry 4.0. Look, what strategy does it have for the development of our productive sectors? Why does the production model wager your government for Galicia? You have alluded to the latest data on the evolution of our economy, and indeed that data reflects – that is a word of what you like so much – that our GDP is growing. At one point our economy had to touch the bottom and start replaying, Counselor, but that data also reflects other things, let me enumerate them. They reflect, first, although you said that one of your Government's priorities was to preserve social and territorial cohesion, that we continue to diverge, that the gap continues to widen, to the point that 2015 will close again with Galicia among the communities that are at the brink of growth. Second, they reflect that by sectors the biggest increase in GDP is produced in construction and in the hospitality industry. Is that your Industry 4.0, Counsellor? Do you think the pillars of the country's economic future can continue to be the construction and the hospitality? Is it not the renewal of the productive tissue? And third, the data reflect that the components that have the worst behavior in the evolution of our economy are public spending, as a result of their government's policy of cutting off, and the consumption of families, as a result of the internal devaluation policies that the People's Party's governments have practiced in both Galicia and Madrid. Look, you've tried to seek competitiveness by making lower prices, at the cost of lowering wages, in order to encourage exports. And in that sense, I want to ask you, do you think you can trust the recovery of our economy only to exports? In a country where only a hundred companies cut half of exports, where only two sectors – automotive and textile – cover 50% of exports, by the weight of Citroën and Index in our economy? Look, Counsellor, of course, it is important to encourage and diversify export activity, but – by paraphrasing another phrase of which you too like – you know – although you do not say it – that we have an economic fabric based on pemes and microenterprises, much more dependent on the internal market than on the outside. You know – although you don't say it – that these pemes and microenterprises need to reactivate consumption vigorously, that people have purchasing power. That's far more important than all the measures you announced for the pemes and the autonomous, and that's incompatible with the internal devaluation policies that you practiced. Allow me to refresh the data we have already provided in other debates. Since 2009, salary costs in Galicia have dropped by 13% more than the average state. Today the annual income of a Greek is less than 3,000 euros than that of a Spanish and 12,000 euros than that of a godmother. With that data, Counselor, it is no wonder that in the last trimester, consumption in Galicia grows less than half as in the state as a whole. And it's no wonder that while consumption in Spain has grown by 3.5% in the last year, Galicia has only done by 2%. You talked about quality employment. Look at what their government policies have been to promote quality employment. His government policies have made that in Galicia 1 out of 3 full-time employees does not even reach the millionaire and that, out of the total number of Greek workers, 31% covers less than the minimum wage. Do you think that model is socially and economically sustainable? A model in which nearly 1 out of 3 Greek workers pays less than 648 euros a month? Look, you talked about your policies contributing to stable employment. Do you know what EPA says in the last quarter, Counselor? It says that, with regard to the previous quarter, the temporary contracts in Galicia rose by 13.8% and the undefined by only 0.2%. But in the annual comparison, temporary contracts rose by 15.7%, while the undefined ones dropped by 0.7%. That's the reality they reflect, Counselor, the official figures. And this model of internal devaluation, of precarious working conditions, is totally and absolutely incompatible with the change of production model, with the change of growth model, Counsellor. You're talking about smart growth, betting on the skill and talent of the workers – he said it textually – do you think that this is compatible with increasingly degrading working conditions? Look, you can't bet on knowledge, value added to the production process, with labor force with wages of misery and increasingly precarious. You cannot bet on knowledge, on value added to the production process, when it turns out that 9 out of 10 contracts are temporary, and many with less than a week's duration. Therefore, it would be good if I had all this data in mind before I launched the bells on the flight for the decrease in unemployment. And look, Counselor, I didn't want to finish without questioning you first about a number of questions. Is there room for the naval sector on the general lines of your department? Because you didn't give him a single line. Has it ceased to be a strategic sector for Galicia from the point of view of its government? Because it turns out that the private sector is running out of order, Counsellor. And the workers of the public yards are fed up with the failure of their government. In 2011 Mr. Feijóo visited Ferrol to announce a strategic plan to reactivate Navantia. He said he would place the more than 1,000 companies and 10,000 workers in the sector that was then in Ferrolterra on the path of business excellence against the world's shipowners. One of those bloating, pompous phrases of which you also like. Do you know what reality is today? There are fewer than 600 workers in the auxiliary industries, and less than 500 of the main factories with workload. In the general lines of your department is there any plan to solve the financing problems of our companies? Because the difficulty of accessing credit is one of the factors that is strangling the productive economy and hindering real and vigorous recovery. And since 2009 Galicia has been the community where the credit concession was most backward. In the general lines of your department, Counselor, is there any strategy to curb the process of losing many of our companies of paleness? Or is your government totally and absolutely irrelevant to the country that our main telecommunications company is absorbed by Euskaltel or that Zeltia transfers its headquarters to Madrid? In the general lines of your department, Counselor, is there any strategy for Galicia to benefit from its productive specialization in electricity generation? Or is there any strategy for Galicia to paint something again in renewable energy? You haven't given ten seconds of your speech to talk about this camp. Have you lost this sector to Galicia, Counselor? So I'd like to see you in your second intervention as concrete as you can when you answer these questions, instead of getting back to us – as you always do – with propaganda phrases, with a publication that has nothing to do with the reality of our country's economic situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u112	Thank you, Mr. Jorquera. Parliamentary Group of the Left Galician Alternative. Mr. Fajardo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u113	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. He said the truth won't be televised. Of course, the truth does not fit in the speech of the Employment and Industry Adviser. It seems, instead of a counselor, a character of Fargo, that beautiful film of the Coen brothers, where their characters are often distant, cold, twisted, dark, lack of empathy, often sinister. People who don't know very well whether I'm the victim's defender or the killer. And in this case, you don't know whether you're defending the unemployed or just killing our unemployed. Because you can't get that far about a social drama. You can't have that far, saying everything's fine, when thousands of people in this country slept with tears. With tears because they had to decide whether they were heating or not, if they were pressing the light, whether they could pay their rent or their mortgage; if they finally had money to feed their children. That's what's really happening in this country. For you, the unemployed in this country are like the mosquitoes that fit against the windshield of your official car. They don't mind you. Take them out of the way in two seconds. It gives him absolutely equal suffering. You can't say the things you said here. The first question — and I will no longer continue with what I had prepared, but with what you said: does this government have a criterion, or does this government come here to deceive us? Do you share what Mr. Valeriano said in Being the other day? He said, first we're going to have a job, and then we'll see the quality of the job. Today you said otherwise. They agree on your government. Tell us the truth. He said exactly: There is work, and more and more, we will start talking about quality in the future. What are we talking about then? Your goal is the one you said when you were at another time in the State Government, which is better to work for 50 euros than not to work. That's the model of labor relations that pursues the People's Party and that we can't share. You've reached a labour market that has some conditions: precarious, poorly paid, which goes from exploitation to emigration. When you put some data on the table, you should say, for example, that, thanks to the electoral census that we manage for these elections, it is shown that in four years, 400,000 people have disappeared from this country. With fewer than 400,000 people, to achieve a reduction in unemployment in a year of just 20,000, of course it seems something, at least, insufficient. We're not ending unemployment, we're driving our workers out. So that's the reality of this unemployment mechanism. You also say that the climate encourages us to trust. Trust what? Trust doesn't eat it from our unemployed, they can't go with a confidence ticket to the supermarket and tell them to give the milk to their children, they can't go with a trust ticket to the bank to tell them not to throw them out of their house. And you say you're going to be next to the companies, where you've always been, never next to those self-sacrificing workers, who sacrifice! They plan that you defend the increase in indefinite employment. I'll give you a date last month. You don't have to go much further, just last month. In 2014, October, 716.000 contracts. Of them, only 39.301 undefined, 5.48%. These are the indefinite contracts in this country, the rest are absolutely precarious. By the way, what does it mean to have an indefinite contract in this country since the labour reform of the People's Party and the previous Socialist Party? That they can fire you as before, but even cheaper. You have reached the free layoff and go to the free and free layoff, which is the goal you pursue with your politics. You say, moreover, that they want to carry on the plans that work and support self-government. Supporting the autonomous is putting them in the precipice and kicking them so they fall down and get in debt for life? To support self-employed people is to tell them that those who access a start-up aid must always continue in that situation, and if they don't have to pay back the amount in four years? Look, I'm going to give you a data that's significant how you support autonomy. 26.8% of all claims for self-employed persons in the state are only from Galicia, 26.8%. What does that mean? That you fail in entrepreneurship, because your policies of aid to entrepreneurship are null; they're as void as there's no security. I'm going to give you a data that you know, that today there are many autonomous asking for help to continue with your company and the one at the beginning, and none of them know if you're going to have that help, even if it's given to you, because in March next year they're going to say that credit is over, and therefore a lot of people who had that money to start their business won't have it. So what help do you give to the autonomous? Well, I'm almost... I'm not going to say what I'm going to say, because Mr. Santalices won't let me finish. We went from industry 4.0 to worker 4.0. Can you explain to me that he's a 4.0 worker? Is that employee model that they want in Galicia that assumes any working conditions, that they have less security and less pay? What's a 4.0 worker? Because here I've come to understand what a 4.0 advisor is. Counsellor 4.0 is an autonomous advisor like a robot – they could put a coke dealer instead of you here to talk – who always says the same speech, repeats the same phrases and, above all, has the nerve to read the same leaflet four times. That must be Counselor 4.0. You say they're going to invest 75 million euros in training our workers to give them more training. 75 million euros is absolutely scarce. Do you know how much they stop paying the unemployed to get out of the labour market every month in Galicia? 64 million euros. I mean, in a month, you rob the unemployed of what they supposedly spend all year on forming those unemployed. 64 million euros every month of the income of these workers. That's right, a great plan to recover our researchers: 300 boys. You said it, 200 on a plan and 100 on another one. 300 boys in front of 400,000 people who were expelled from the country in four years. And that's right, one of the plans, the only thing I listened to specifically was: training for managers, training for managers. That's your tracking model. The unskilled workers, the workers who are in a very sad situation because of their economic policies, not those, but training for managers. How much are we going to spend on training for managers? What does training for managers mean? More [...] for people who vote for you? What do you want with that training model for managers? You're talking about disability and employment, and you're taking over the model of special employment centres. Have you ever been to a special employment center? Could you tell me here how is it possible that a special employment centre means that workers with disabilities who occupy a job cover less than the collective agreement of the sector? I'll give you an example. I'm going to give you an example of how you do things. Special call-care centres of Sergas. If they had the Call Center agreement, they'd charge 40% more than they charge, but because they're in a special employment center and they're disabled, they're 40% less. That's the special job centre model, which because of a disability, you have to charge less. Absolutely outrageous! Look, I have to tell you a question. His model of jobs in Galicia has a data that is absolutely brutal. When you came to the government in Galicia in 2009, there were 1,092,431 wages in that country. Today, only 968,000; there are fewer than 120,000 employees in this country. But there was also a robbery about their rents. If at that time there were wages in the country 19,900 million euros, today there are only 17,168 million euros. What does that mean? That your employment policies mean that in wages in this country we have lost, since you rule, EUR 2,731 million. I mean, the working class in this country has 2,731 million euros less by its policies. That's the model of worker 4.0 that you're proposing! While the benefits of large companies grow, while the benefits of IBEX 35 grow, it's clear where they don't grow. And where they don't grow up, it's in the wages of our workers. I'd ask you to give me some keys. What are you going to do about the future? Because from AGE we have some choice, but I don't listen to you any other alternative than not to continue on the previous path; that is, in the path that led us to this unabated unemployment and these wages of misery. And I didn't hear what those strategic sectors were going to bet on either. I'll give you some data. Does it seem reasonable to you that in this country where the most job losses are in the primary sector and in the manufacturing companies in the primary sector, what should be the cradle of our employment? How is it possible that sectors as fundamental as agricultural transformations or our own conservation are in absolutely deminable employment situations, such as those we had 25 years ago, in a situation of gradual loss of employment that is absolutely unsustainable? What are you going to do with these sectors? What are you going to do, for example, with sectors like our fishing, which lose more than 10,000 employees every year? Or what are you going to do, for example, with the necessary recovery of the industrial infrastructures that in Galicia have been abandoned by speculation? Not just because companies were not viable, but because they were abandoned by mere speculation. In this country we have hundreds of companies that could be produced tomorrow if you took seriously what you said in one of your lines: cooperativeism. How can there be no help for those workers who want to recover their industries, who are viable but who are abandoned simply because someone has decided to speculate with their jobs? Finally, you stayed at Counsellor 4.0. You know the zero-point version is the ones that don't work. So you're a counselor who doesn't work or will get this country out of its sad unemployment situation. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u114	Thank you, Mr. Fajardo. Socialist Parliamentary Group. Mr. Losada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u115	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Counsellor, the truth is, if the subject wasn't the dramatic thing that socially is, this spokesman and the Socialist Group were expecting something else beyond a Christmas tale. All right, Christmas is coming, but I really think you have to take a walk. [[Applause]] It's true that his counsellorship, if we move on to the history of painting, of dead nature, of wineries, of numbers, went on to the human figure, to the portraits. Indeed, there are now names, surnames, families, these small details 2,750,000 human beings living in the autonomous community. Until now I was lucky enough to manage a councillor who was au on top of the melee, uncomfortable in ethical or moral terms because, in fact, they're going through very badly, and now you have to land, you have to land on the real problems of citizens. Yesterday the survey of living conditions for the Greeks went out. 25% are in a negative or very negative economic situation; one in four. That means about 750,000 people. Anyway, I'm the biggest emotional shock, not intellectually, I took him to work 4.0. Government Education Minister Rajoy, Mr Íñigo Méndez de Vigo, IX Baron of Claret – which has the aristocracy – said textually, of course, you remember it, that there are university students. And if that's what we add, we go down the scholarships, because we have the corollary of the theorem: that they study the usual ones. And it's true, yesterday there was also a study on which the social origin of families has a decisive influence on the possibilities of young people's employment access. You know perfectly well, Mr. Counsellor, that, unfortunately, because of lack of resources and lack of public service, find employment much easier for the children of the golf club users than for the public employment service users. He knows it, he knows it. Sadly, that's how it is. [[Applause]] Don't you understand? No, no, no, no. Didn't you understand it or don't you have the empirical observation? So, look, the relational capital – which you know for sure – of the son of a great businessman allows that person, with the same qualification, to find much easier employment than the son of a bricklayer or a chapista. Don't you? Do you think not? Well, the truth is, data doesn't say that. And, of course, that a party that maintains as an education and culture minister to a person who says this comes here telling us a job story 4.0 in one country – I also stop because I'm also disturbed by their colleagues, I have the same level of acoustic sensitivity as you – that there are 27% of young people who don't study or work, which is really an insult; a political insult, of course, a political insult, counsellor. We have to solve the real problems that are on the table. They are very well – I insist – power point, business schools, master business administration; finally, all these issues. But look, families that have the economic capacity to access those levels of qualification don't need substantially the Economic, Employment and Industry Council. The Economic Council, and above all the scope of employment, is mainly for people who have difficulty in accessing employment. And you know that there is a very high, positive correlation – better said, negative – between these difficulties and the level of economic income and the social level of the families of these people. Yesterday, the spokesperson of the People's Party asked them, the unemployed of this autonomous community, patience. I quote the teletype, I haven't been in the press round. Patience until when? I'll read you three or four headlines: Nearly half of the German parades have been out of work for two or more years. Nearly a third of the Welsh employees don't reach milleurists. Partial employment leaves – they are holders of the last month and a half, they are not holders of the year 2009, 2007, 2006, 2008–142,200 Galicians with salaries below the minimum wage. Ah!, but, that if, the big company rises salaries and hires eventuals while cutting its fixed template. Do you know who the salaries go up, Counselor? Let's see if he can guess. I'm sure you do, right? But all of this, this social and labor reality of Galicia and Spain that you refuse to recognize machaconically, although the evidence is palmarial, from time to time they escape. I understand that permanent mental control, of being constantly saying what you don't believe, has to be exhausting in almost physical terms. The minister of Guindos said on the 25th of last month, that is, six days ago, in the Coruña: The growth model has already changed, now it's up to keep the course. I know you're not the minister of Guindos, but I'd like to know exactly what this means. I, of course, have an opinion on what this means, and I've been repeating it in this Parliament, and we've seen it repeating it from the Socialist Party systematically. It means competing through wages, dramatically damaging the labour market of this autonomous community and this country, and how much you tell us that the R & D+i in 2014 had a kind of nuclear explosion in this autonomous community – we will talk about it – to abandon the idea of competing through research and innovation. And, unfortunately, seeing the data, the wage data, seeing the data on the working conditions in which these wages are signed, Counsellor, always give us the reason. Look, all the new contracts created in Galicia were temporary in the last year. By the way, I had a little argument of an arithmetic character with some of his voices. It is obviously a balance, of course, that there was some indefinite employment contract; but considering those who were lost and those who were signed, then at last. I'm saying this in case they may have put together the question between you and your spokesman and they didn't reach a proper academic consensus. I'm talking about a balance. And then we have the other foot of that model of growth which, undoubtedly, Mr. de Guindos, in a span of language, if he escaped, which is taxation. And here, of course, we arrive apart – let's say – more ideological of speech, apart from redistribution. That thing you guys say about why we're going to feed kids free of charge at school. Because the children are all the same, to see if they understand! So simple! It has nothing to do with parents' wages. [[Applause]] Parents' wages have to influence their parents' taxes. The only way for children to be truly equal is for them to eat together and for free. I think it's easy to understand. Maybe it's ideology, Counselor. And an advantage. Do you know what the advantage is? To the advantage... – please, they're touching their noses all the way through –...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u116	But they come from there too.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u117	Well, that's it. I know.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u118	I know it actually bothers, but...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u119	It's annoying. Of course, it bothers me a lot. And of course it's very easy to have tea outside the room. All the time you're in, Paula, all the time. [[Interruptions.]] There's a difference there. You look strange, but that's called ideology. I got it. If you don't have it or if you want to hide it... Of course, it's your business. I have it, and for me children eat free and all together can be ideology, but of course it means equality, and it's in taxes where we have to fund that free food for everyone. Do you know what's going on with taxes in Galicia, Counselor? It's happening that the IRPF increases the collection when wages go down; they stop thinking about why. And yet, the corporation tax goes down when the corporate profits rise. This is the tax model that Guindos speaks of, you know? It would be nice if I told you what this means. I don't know if it's 4.0 or 5.0 or 6.0, of course! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I have to explain to myself why taxes on work rise the collection when wages decrease, and yet lower the collection of corporate taxes when business benefits increase. That's called reverse redistribution, as you well know. So it's very good that I'm talking to you here about employment 4.0, schedule 4.0, finally about all these issues. But look, Counselor, you have to tell us about the country you want to build. And it should be honest and tell us what interests they defend, because that story that there is no ideology and that it is ruled for all is purely and simply a lie. You can't rule for everyone because each other's interests are opposed, it's that simple. I understand that of goodnessism if it is of good intent. From goodness to hypocrisy there is a fine sheet that is sometimes difficult to profile. But I repeat again, tell us who rules. Tell us, really, what they're doing to women who don't have a job...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u120	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u121	...–Failure, Mr President- and who have ceased to receive unemployment benefits; with the new persons who have ceased to receive unemployment benefits. Now that you're responsible for employment, you've confronted me with a question that I'm asking you all the legislation. Why is Galicia the only community in which the decline in unemployment is much greater than the increase in memberships to Social Security? I've brought you every full, you, your general directors and, of course, the very renowned voices of the People's Group area...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u122	Finish, finish, Mr. Losada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u123	...but no one answers me. I tell you, immigration or discouragement. And if there's another explanation, please give it to her.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u124	Thank you, Mr. Losada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u125	Unfortunately there's no other explanation, Counselor, and you know it perfectly.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u126	Thank you, Mr. Losada. People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Arias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u127	Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Counselor. I think it was very complete, Counsellor, explaining our economic model because it raised the two relevant facets of this matter, which are its economic model, the results of that economic model and the comparison with others. Something that can be verified, reasonably, complete, and also said without triumphalism. Because that style, without triumphalism, is the one that characterizes Mr. Conde. He's always characterized him. It seems to me, in particular, very appropriate. If you ask me, I, when they told me to speak Spanish, neither to chance, do you understand? I am used to trying to impose things on me by the inquisitors of turn, because being inquisitive is a disease of character, which Wilhelm Reich would say. Well, I wonder, if we are here analyzing what the opposition has said, I would have liked, anyway, to see the socialists say: calm down, because because we have cancelled Vigo's urbanism plan is not going to happen in Vigo. It's not going to have any economic effects. It has no economic consequences. Our urban management is zero costs, it's not going to have costs. And those people...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u128	Mr. Gallego. Mr. Gallego. Mr. Gallego, silence! Silence! Quiet, please. Could not connect with command "%s": %s. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Mr. Gallego, I call you by order. Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u129	The clock's passing. I can't speak, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u130	Don't worry, he'll be compensated.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u131	No, I mean...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u132	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u133	I think that anyway, having a spokesman who is going to introduce himself to the Senate, as a representative at the Senators' Club, Mr. Losada could...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u134	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u135	...do not need the angry help of Mr. Gallego Lumba and explain to us what consequences this can have for the most industrial city in Galicia. I could tell us that. I could explain. I'm not asking for self-criticism, explanation.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u136	Mr. Losada was complaining about interrupting. Please don't interrupt. Respect who is in the use of the word.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u137	Now the head of organization comes out in his help because Mr. Losada lost...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u138	Quiet, please. Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u139	I participated as a technician for other years in three plans of urbanism that we all approved, from Coruña, Ferrol and Pontevedra.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u140	Quiet, please. Quiet, please. Mr. Arias, continue, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u141	I think that when someone has an X mentality, anything seems to him that doesn't fit his mentality, so he doesn't talk about what's relevant because it's not what I see, it's not like I understand the world, so... I mean, we're not talking here, in appearance...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u142	Quiet, please. Quiet. Quiet, please. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Go on, please, go on. I think it's necessary to respect who's in the use of the word. I know that this, those who are down there, bothers them, but please let them respect whoever is in the use of the word, for the sake of all of you, and for the sake of all of us, when we speak from here. Let's see if we can. Go ahead, Mr. Arias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u143	This is the first round of a debate where the economic, industrial and employment adviser makes a presentation of his model, of his explanation, of his attitude, which personally seems complex and competent, and also very sober, very serious, as is the slogan, on the other hand, of the People's Party for this election campaign. [[Applause]] From the beginning, a group of Members acted as a cheerleader, disturbing the understanding of others there. They are always used to not trust the arguments of the words, of the parliamentary order. They have to fuck, systematically fuck! Always. And when I come in, because I'm interested, I care and I think it's relevant to say what the current opposition is, that they take up the urbanism plan that they've made while they've been in the board, being in the city hall and being the Town Councilorship that so often criticized me and attacked me... and it turns out that it had been so incompetent that it was unable to approve an urbanism plan. [[Protests.]] [[Applause]] Look at you, I have a lot of economic memory, Mrs. Quintas, I have a lot of memory.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u144	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u145	I'm sorry, what am I gonna do to him! I have that defect. I have a lot of theoretical and analytical memory Yes, but with forgiveness, with forgiveness, with forgiveness. [[Murmurs.]] So, as I know that urbanism plans, when they become competent, are fundamental elements for the economic progress of municipalities, capitals and peoples, since when can you make a legal extension of Citroën if your urbanism plan is illegal? Since when? Respond. [[Applause]] How are you going to make economic growth? But yes, Mr. Caballero is going to make a parking lot. Mr. Mayor of Vigo is going to make a covered parking... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u146	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u147	...to go to the hospital. I was gonna say, if I'm...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u148	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u149	...the health lord of my people, and it turns out that all those things that censor poverty, insufficiency and inadequacies are due to these gentlemen, is because they have no strategic vision of history, of the present and of the economy. [[Applause]] Look, Your Honor, I'm still resuming the words when Mr Zapatero said: "We have the most extraordinary financial sector in the world." More extraordinary than the world! He also said it by Caixanova, he said it by Caixa Galicia, by everyone.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u150	Quiet. Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u151	I can't make a critique, it's incredible! [[Laughter]] These gentlemen, if they come to command at other times, my God, where would I be! Because they are very authoritarian, they are tremendously authoritarian.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u152	Quiet, please. Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u153	Well, things have happened to me. Anyway, I want to tell you... let me talk! There's one fundamental thing the Block didn't know about either. The Block is attentive to small things but not to the great AGEs had no history. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] For example, one little thing... they think we're insensitive. We don't know what's going on. Also incompetent, incompetent, because we don't even study how our electorate is; we don't know those who suffer, those who don't suffer, those who are either right or wrong, those who are chulos, intelligent, arrogant, etc. We don't know that, we don't even have sensitivity or intelligence, which is equally serious. But they didn't know that when you were voting with the PSOE we had a balance of payments deficit of EUR 100 billion a year! Yes. Some fellow can tell you. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Do you know how much it is? Ten times the budget of the Board per year. And you know what that was for? To build useless houses, given in credit, to create this debt system that is the one who laughs! [[Laughter]] I think that in order to be a Member, we need to know about the economy. I believe! [[Applause]] But besides, I'm not talking to you about... but sir, look you, you have to know about general love, eternal and complete love. [[Murmurs.]] But we need to know about finance, economics, taxes, to know... [[Protests.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u154	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u155	Yes, Mr. President. In that sense, look, please, it's just...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u156	Yeah, I understand it's annoying. It's annoying, it's annoying, it's annoying, it's annoying. [[Laughter]] And when you're here in the gallery, you also bother them. Make it a little easier, make it a little easier. It is disturbing to any Member, therefore, to ask that he be concerned with whom he is speaking. [[Protests.]] Finish as soon as you can, Mr. Arias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u157	Ladies and gentlemen, discuss my arguments, but leave me alone. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u158	Thank you very much, Mr Arias. Replica. Counsellor for Economics, Employment and Industry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u159	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. First of all, logically, thanks a lot for your contributions during this show. An appearance in which I tried to derive from the situation that currently has our productive fabric and the situation that currently has our labour market. So I tried to start from a realistic situation; a situation in which this government is perfectly sensitive to people, it's perfectly sensitive to the needs of companies, and I honestly believe that this realistic presentation doesn't deserve frivolities or demagoxies on its part...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u160	Quiet, please. Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u161	So I'll try to keep this line of realism. When reference is made to what is the current situation of the labour market, I didn't want to make reference to the past, but if you do it, logically I also see myself obliged to do it. Unfortunately, the inheritance that this Government had to collect in 2009 was what it was, and that inheritance... that inheritance, ladies and gentlemen, at the end of the job... I'm talking about the year 2009, and at the end of the job, ladies and gentlemen, the Bipartite was responsible for the 19,500 jobs that were lost in the last year of government. [[Murmurs.]] And on the way out of the job, ladies and gentlemen, the Bipartite was responsible for the 70,000 jobs more than they were lost only a year after their departure. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, the Bipartite is responsible for the loss in Galicia of about 90,000 jobs after its management for four years. But if we go to the economic issue, ladies and gentlemen, the Socialist Party has left – and you know – a public deficit of 9.4% on GDP. The Socialist Party increased public debt by about 50%. The Socialist Party was responsible for the difficulties created with the tariff deficit, leaving a commitment of more than EUR 10,000 annually in the payment of renewables premiums. And the Socialist Government, along with the Bipartite, were responsible for this unrealistic budget planning that caused the Greeks to have to return more than 2,000 million euros for that unreal planning of the years 2008 and 2009. That's, ladies, the reality you left. And that's the reality this government has been managing from an economic point of view, from an industrial point of view and from an employment policy point of view. Therefore, of what we are responsible for, ladies and gentlemen, is indeed to have a government action to correct the irresponsibilities that occurred in the two-party government between 2005 and 2009, and the irresponsibilities that occurred in the central government between 2004 and 2011. That's the reality. And that government action – and I tried to appear this morning to move the situation – has concrete action and concrete measures in the wake of economic policy, industrial policy and employment policy. Mr Jorquera transferred me from the point of view of the fact that I really had a little more focus on economic and industrial policies. It's true, because in fact, since I assumed job skills, I tried to focus more on attendance in the area of employment, but now I'm going to respond logically. What is true – I said in my speech, and I think it is a very important aspect – is that the employment agenda that we put in place next January will include cross-cutting measures; that is, employment policy will work directly, with its involvement, with innovation policy, with competitiveness policy, with internationalisation policy, with training policy and with trade policy. Therefore, in this context of economic recovery, we will take advantage of the synergies between economic and industrial policies and employment policies, precisely for two reasons. First, so that the entrepreneurs, who are the contractors... because, gentlemen, that's the reality. This government is with businesses and workers, it's with everyone, but businessmen, who hire them, need a certain profile of workers, and logically we have to meet those training needs. On the other hand, logically, workers need to be able to choose these opportunities, so we're going to develop a employment policy that also meets the needs of our workers. So a realistic employment agenda; an employment agenda that has a cross-sectional view, the impact of the various economic and industrial policies of the Government; and an employment agenda that will focus on training, on the needs of self-employed, on the needs of the most vulnerable groups, and will also – and I will now focus on the employment needs of Industry 4.0. They asked me about the economic model, both the BNG and the Socialist Party. We have a clear economic model, and I don't think we're hiding it at any time. And that economic model is being accompanied by concrete measures, from the point of view of economic policy and industrial policy. We have to make our companies competitive, that's reality. And competitiveness means something as simple as our companies have to offer the best possible product and the best quality/price ratio. It's always been that way, ladies and gentlemen, it's nothing new. That means in the current context, where the innovation cycles are getting shorter and, therefore, companies are competing in reducing production costs and also reducing delivery times, which necessarily needs to introduce all the tools that need our productive fabric to be competitive. Ladies and gentlemen, that's where Industry 4.0 is to be located. Industry 4.0 is the model that is developing the most developed economies in the world. All economies are working precisely on technologies that can allow their productive fabric to be competitive. This is an opportunity that Galicia has, and this government, through its competitiveness agenda Galicia Industry 4.0 and through employment policies, will try to respond to the needs of our businesses and the needs of our workers. I greatly regret that AGE ridicules employment 4.0; I greatly regret it. I'd like you to come closer to Germany and see it as one of the most important trade unions in Germany, IG Metall, is asking to participate in the design and development of Industry 4.0, because the IG Metall union in Germany knows that to generate quality employment and ensure a future for its workers necessarily passes because that Industry 4.0 is approaching and is also designed by the trade unions themselves. We, of course, will work – we are already doing it – with our unions to actually give the most appropriate answers to reflect the needs and professional profiles, ladies and gentlemen, which needs Industry 4.0. The economy evolves, consumer demands evolve, consumer demands evolve, and industries and businesses have to respond to these new demands and new demands. That determines the incorporation of new technologies and also determines, from a worker's point of view, new skills and new skills, and that is, ladies and gentlemen, Employment 4.0. You also speak, within the economic model, of lack of content. I think I've appeared on a number of occasions, but you know perfectly well that this economic model is based on very specific planning: in the strategy of smart specialization, evaluated by the European Commission; the Agenda for Competitiveness Industry 4.0 and the Strategy for Internationalization. There are the documents and concrete measures available to this House. So I think it's empty of content to say that this government does not propose concrete measures. Of course, we are considering them, and you see, for example, that the Strategy of Smart Specialization has already invested more than 200 million euros in concrete measures. Here are the Connecta Peme programs, with that call we just took to the Board of Directors and which will be published in the next few days in the Official Journal of Galicia, with this order of 25 million euros to promote business innovation projects. They have these examples, ladies and gentlemen – and I think we must feel proud of our talent – these joint units that are developing the major multinational industries and companies here in Galicia. Ladies and gentlemen, from time to time we would have to be proud of what we do because we do it well, and our workers and our companies do it well. We have Citröen developing here in Galicia the autonomous car, which is a reference all over the world. The autonomous car is developing with the collaboration of the CTAG, engineers and researchers at the CTAG. The autonomous car came out of the CTAG. And Repsol is working with the Institute of Industrial Mathematics at the University of Complutense developing the main needs that, from the innovation point of view, Repsol has. And Borg Warner, a multinational auxiliary industry, is also developing a joint unit in Galicia. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that there are concrete measures and specific data. You're talking to me about the productive sectors, which we don't support the productive sectors. Ladies and gentlemen, I refer to the facts and refer to the automotive sector. Galicia has shown, the Citröen Vigo factory has shown, the Citröen workers have demonstrated, and the auxiliary industry and its workers have shown that they have been able to get Citroën to sign and to assist the new van in Vigo's factory. That's one before and one after the future of the automotive industry in Galicia. That's the reality. Galicia is developing the best technologies, and when you want to ridicule Industry 4.0, I'm just referring to data and facts. Citröen knows that his future is going through Industry 4.0. Citröen wants to develop the Industry 4.0 projects here in Galicia, and they have no doubt that Citröen will have the support to actually develop these Industry 4.0 projects here. They're telling me about the naval. Today we have a totally different situation than we were two or three years ago. Our shipyards have a workload – insufficient, but they all have a workload – and the naval sector is working on its competitiveness. We are supporting the competitiveness of the naval sector with that project that we are developing with Aclunaga, with Navantia and with the auxiliary industry. We are providing funding for the naval sector. And Navantia, ladies and gentlemen, besides having a workload through the fleet of Pemex, Bahn, of the different projects and contracts they are developing, with 100 percent of the capacity occupied in their engineering department and their repair area, Navantia is already working on the development of the fragata F110. You are already working because the technology development projects are already being developed. And Navantia is also working on the development of the 4.0 yard. Therefore, the naval sector has the support of the Government because it knows this Government which is indeed one of the strategic sectors. We can talk about the aviation sector, ladies and gentlemen, an emerging sector where we are betting on industrialization in Galicia. And they know that in the Rozas aerodrome we're making a bet with the central government so that the Rozas aerodrome is actually a reality and can set industrial fabric in Galicia and develop innovation within the aviation sector. We're already investing 10 million euros to condition the entire Rozas aerodrome. And they know we're in a bid of 25 million euros in which they're competing, gentlemen, all of the world's leading aircraft companies. I think it's a pride for Galicia that major airlines want to work here in Galicia, and they're competing for this 25 million-euro bid. Of course, we will support aeronautics, support industry and support the development of innovation projects. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, the entire government's industrial and economic policy is going to work on establishing synergies with that employment agenda that I had the opportunity to move them to the audience. Logically, we will develop all the measures that will allow employment to continue to be recovered in Galicia – the data will reflect it – and we will continue to work on active employment policies with specific measures in the field of training, employment incentives and in the area of this vocational training strategy which we believe is absolutely necessary. Finally, with all those measures that we in Galicia have made industrial fabric, we believe quality employment and we offer opportunities to our workers, which is what they are demanding of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u162	Thank you, Counselor. Special round of clarifications. Joint Parliamentary Group. Mrs. Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u163	It's very appealing that you accuse the opposition of frivolity and demagogy, really. If there's anyone who did a cold, demagogic intervention, it's you. Look, to start with thanks, to the sacrifice of workers and workers, when they were not asked for their opinion, and if they were forced by cuts that ruined their lives. Thanks to the entrepreneurs, it was those who had to close their little business because Junta bet on another kind of business. When we talk about support for the productive sectors, Citröen, a company that is not Welsh, is French – I remind you – and if you do here in K9 is because there were tremendous cuts in the rights of the workers and the workers of the company. That's what you support. Those companies that keep employment based on impoverishing workers, with the help of the Galician Union and state aid, and the increasingly poorer and more precarious workers. A great legacy of what you can really boast, is your politics. It's about inheritance. The inheritance that you leave for the next government today is 109,000 long-term unemployed people, where 4 out of 5 don't get help, only 1 out of 5 get help, nothing more. A great legacy that you leave! More than 143,000 jobs destroyed in the Feijóo era, another great legacy! There are 135,000 poor employees; people who work and pay don't give them to live. Look at me, and look at those workers when they look around. When I go to Citröen to walk in the direction, look at the workers and thank them for their poverty, which gave rise to what you can boast in this Parliament. You also talk about training, when there are no vocational training squares, and less for those poor workers who want to improve their training to access a higher quality job. There are no squares, no schedules, for these workers and workers. You're talking about Industry 4.0. Like we're going to have it if we don't have training, to start with. And you don't invest in training. He doesn't talk about the work of the Labour Inspectorate either. They should set up the Labour Inspectorate to pursue the fraud in the procurement; to continue the causality between the contract made and the object of the contract. They should – I told you – end gender discrimination in the world of work because it's already in the law, there's nothing more to do than apply the law. He's talking about self-government. It will be those autonomous who close at six months to open up their business because they have no help to keep up, because it's just propaganda what they give; no initiative to unite that which they like so much about synergies and make an agenda so that really, with all those prepared people we have, trying to get out by themselves, they can form cooperatives or societies that go ahead in Industry 4.0. But if you're talking about workers 4.0, I suppose it's not just about training, because to be a worker 4.0 you have to have a salary 4.0 and some working conditions 4.0. You don't come in there. Because, for example, the first ones who had to be workers 4.0 would be the public workers, those you have condemned to poverty and precarious working conditions. You speak of Germany as if you could compare yourself, because Germany is also a country of micro-enterprises, a country without public investment, a country where you live and if you can power the precarious employment to get out of this crisis. And he's still here talking about internationalization when we talk about relocation many times, even though you deny it. He's talking about the naval sector. There are demonstrations. But what did you do for the public naval sector more than try to load Fene, because it's your last goal to close Fene as a yard. They have no interest, so they don't bet on the floating dam and they only used it as electoral propaganda. He hasn't spoken of an electrical task that benefits the installation of companies in Galicia. You haven't talked about whether or not Junta will prioritize or not buy Greek products against foreign products. He talked nothing about the limitation of the large surfaces, betting for the local trade that sells crafts and products made in Galicia. He didn't say anything about the position in the granite or the galley slate. He talked nothing about rational exploitation of sex and closing his productive cycle in Galicia. He didn't say anything about betting on the second transformation of wood in our country, with quality, innovation and design. He didn't talk about biotechnology, nor information technology, to make them more competitive. And he didn't say anything about access to R & D+i projects from pemmes and small businessmen. I mean, you came here to do electoral propaganda, unfortunately our people and the working class. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u164	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. Mr. Jorquera.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u165	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, I would like to begin with a petition to the presidency of this Parliament. When the parliamentary debate is scheduled to be interrupted to attend an episode of the comedy club, which is reported to us in advance. Because I think Mr. Pedro Arias' intervention was more of a comedy club than a parliamentary intervention would be. [[Applause]] I imagine there will be no problem speaking of the hunting of ducks from Canada, I will not be called to order, because he added much of his intervention to talk about urbanism. Look, Mr. Pedro Arias, the urban model that defends your party, you know what it is? The one in San Ginés. [[Laughter]] I'm telling you in Spanish, it's not gonna be that you consider a tax called Sanxenxo. San Ginés's! [[Applause]] Look, in alluding to my person, Mr. Pedro Arias said he was well understood by love, but we have to understand a little bit of economy. Look, it's just that I recognize my disabilities. You were able to go teaching the cylinder by Baroña and at the same time gather sufficient merits to be a Nobel Prize in Economics. I appeal to this House to pronounce itself to repair this historical injustice and to give Mr. Pedro Arias the Nobel Prize in Economics. [[Applause]] Because he also illustrated us today with his wisdom, today he illustrated us with his wisdom. We discovered that the reason for the international financial crisis and the breakdown of Lehman Brothers was that the BNG reached several budgetary agreements with Government Zapatero. Thank you for illustrating us, Your Excellency Pedro Arias! [[Applause]] Mr. Pedro Arias characterized the counsellor's intervention as the explanation of an economic model and of the results. Let me remember the results. Counselor, since you talk so much about inheritances, let me remind you of the inheritance you will leave. Look, since you've been ruling again -- because you've been ruling your entire life except for a brief period, you seem to forget this -- the active population in our country has dropped almost 70,000; we've lost more than 131,000 people; there are over 61,000 more unemployed. But besides, if we set the comparison with the Spanish State, Counsellor, it turns out that since 2009 the number of unemployed has grown in Galicia nothing more and nothing less than 183% more than in the Spanish State. The number of unemployed fell in Galicia nothing more and nothing less than 175 percent more than in the Spanish state. And the active population has dropped nothing more and nothing less than 300,5% more than in the Spanish state. And you keep talking about the inheritance of the Bipartite, when they're going to leave this total and absolutely ruinous balance to the country! Look, I've taken a good part in my speech to ask you some specific questions. He only responded to the naval sector, saying he has a lot of work to do. The Navantia workers are once again demonstrating to thank the Government of Galicia and the Central Government for their extraordinary management. I'm not going to reiterate the data we've already provided in the first intervention of which were the occupation figures before you arrived and what they are now. I just want you to record the following, Mr. Counsellor, because, look, the audiences aren't just replacing the TV Galega reports with appearances in this Parliament. You've also been answering the questions raised by the opposition, because one of the basic functions of this Parliament is the control of the Government. I asked you if you have any plans for your government to solve the financing problems of our companies. Do you know what your answer was? You don't know, you don't answer. He didn't add a minute, a second, to answer. I asked you if you have any strategy for your government to halt the process of losing the gallugut of many companies. Do you know what your answer was? You don't know, you don't answer. He didn't add a second to this question. I asked him if his government had any strategy so that Galicia could derive benefits from his condition as a great electric producer. Do you know what your answer was? You don't know, you don't answer. I asked you if you have any strategy for Galicia to paint again something in the field of renewable energy. Do you know what your answer was? You don't know, you don't answer. Do you know what the problem is in this country? That we have a government that, beyond propaganda, doesn't know and therefore cannot answer.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u166	Thank you, Mr. Jorquera. Parliamentary Group of the Left Galician Alternative. Mr. Fajardo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u167	Good day again. The truth is that I am a faithful defender of nudism, even expanding its field of action beyond the crowded spaces where it is right now, I begin to doubt my principles, because, if the maximums responsible for the radical nudist coordinator, of whom I have had the misfortune to see photos escaping women's poles on the Castles beach, they end up coming to this House saying these things that have been said, frankly, I hope it is not the fruit of nudism I am also a member of a party, the Communist Party, who had a history; a party that has made very many mistakes, very many, in its history and, unfortunately, will continue to make them. But, of course, our central committees have won a lot since a badge member of the Communist Party abandoned him to end up in the ranks of the People's Party. [[Applause]] And I was saying this person who intervened here -- with absolute contempt for the rest of the colleagues in this House, and failing them about the unemployed, because we were talking about employment and he didn't use ten seconds to talk about employment -- that he was defending the parliamentary order. And by the tone that he told me he defended something more than parliamentary order; by the tone that he told me he would prefer another kind of model than parliamentarians. Look, I am part of an organization and, of course, I personally hope to overcome the current parliamentary order, because in the current parliamentary order there is no democracy and we are the light years of being representative of the society out there. So I do hope to subvert this model to achieve another more just and egalitarian model. That's the reality of my political action. I deeply regret the counselor's reply. I used to compare myself to a character of the Coën brothers, but it would be difficult to transfer him to you to a film of the Coën brothers; it is very difficult the impatience with which you have dealt with the very serious issues of what we are talking about. To be able to say that the current economic and employment situation in this country has to do with the inheritance of a government that has ruled only four years, of the twenty-nine that we have brought here, is a coat of hair. Look, many of the unemployed today who are unemployed, when I was supposed to be doing all the evil that was the Bipartite were in primary school. It's just that we're talking about that time as if we're talking about Pleistocene. You can't be seven years later thinking that these are all the evils, because then you're incapacities. Because if someone does it so bad in four years that in seven they're unable to recover it, it's just that you have to change it for absolute incapacity. I asked you a question. I told you if your government were all thinking the same thing, because you said here you wanted a good job, but it turns out that Counsellor Valeriano once again said that the quality of the job was a second time. What is the position of your government? Do you have a unit of action on this subject or do you just say what seems appropriate in every place and sometimes you see your soul? Because the People's Party, when it speaks, sometimes you see the soul, and today you see the soul. The unemployed give them absolutely the same, they give them absolutely the same. They are a necessary body for their policy models, which are those of establishing fear as a mechanism for reducing wages. And the data is what they are. How can you make a positive balance here since they arrived in 2009? I gave you a date before it's chilly. In wages today, compared to 2009, 2,000 million euros less in this country; 2,000 million euros less than they are in the pockets of who is not known, but that they are no longer in the pockets of the working class of this country. It's 2,000 million euros, almost 130,000 jobs less. What are we talking about? How can you boast of your data when there are 400,000 fewer people in Galicia – election promotion, we're not going any further – in four years; and 100,000 people have left this country every year? They must be delighted. And you tell me there's a German union that's delighted with Industry 4.0. It's so nice that there are German hordes in Padornelo trying to get into Galicia to find a job in Industry 4.0. But look, there are some things we can't afford. It doesn't give me time to answer everything, but it seems to me that there is something that is absolutely unacceptable, that you are asking us the need to introduce gender equality in policies. Is that what they're going to do in Ourense? Or are they going to do it in Noia, where they drove out two maricadores who were victims of gender-based violence and stayed out? Are you going to do it there? Or are they gonna keep looking the other way? Or is worker 4.0 of what you're talking about a worker who has to get his pants down to get to a job, as Mr Baltar intended? Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u168	Thank you, Mr. Fajardo. Socialist Parliamentary Group. Mr. Losada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u169	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. I'll start by answering the People's Party spokesman. He, as a well-known economist, surely knows what social capital is, what reputation capital. He was very concerned about what was going to happen in Vigo. Do you know what is the problem, in terms of social capital, of this autonomous community? Do you know which one? A president of the Union who takes pictures of drug traffickers and a president... yes, yes, they're going to listen! [[Murmurs.]] Yeah, yeah, they're going to listen! Yes, yes, of course, of course. [[Applause]] And a president of the House of Commons calling for sex in exchange for a job. That is what is an element of economic development. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I answer a question, simply. Now I continue with the following questions. [[Applause]] [[Murmurs.]] Mr. Arias, look, the Galician board has been very diligent in making a statement of supra-municipal interest to favor the construction of a private hospital in Vigo that fills the Ferrovial ark. For Citroën's expansion, don't worry so much, that Citroën's expansion will be done. It would be nice if you were concerned about the working conditions of the workers in Citroën. It would be nice if you'd cared about that. And look, I don't know exactly the sentence of the Vigo General Plan. If I read, because it came out a while ago, the ruling of the Ourense General Plan — yes, yes — where a Vice-President of the Union and current President of the Government of Galicia changed the papers after he was approved. [[Murmurs.]] That! [[Applause]] Then, of general plans, the People's Party that I don't speak, that I don't speak. And as I look very concerned to the deputy of Vigo of the People's Party, if you will, we speak of Gran Via; we talk about the envelopes of Gran Via, we talk about the former mayor and we talk about the People's Party of Vigo. Shall we talk about that? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Do you want us to talk about it, Mr. Dorado? Because you know him, sure, perfectly. [[Murmurs.]] I know him, I'm not from the People's Party. Well, if you'll meet him! So, look, urbanism and snow don't talk; urbanism and snow don't talk. Let's see if we're talking about work. [[Applause]] Counselor, you spoke of R+D+i. Data came out exactly five days ago: 0.87% of GDP. It's true that we go up one hundredth; it's like to be truly proud. We're still like Ukraine. By the way, Turkey has already brought us forward, eh! I got upset looking at him. As he always used the data from Ukraine and Turkey, Turkey has already brought us forward, it's already at 0.9%. So we're there. But, Counsellor, the expenditure on R & D+i of this autonomous community that will lead Industry 4.0 at European level is 3.7% of the set of Spain, and you know perfectly well that the weight of the gross domestic product... Of course, Mrs. Paula Prado, as bad music, you have no price! Bad in musical terms. [[Interruptions.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u170	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u171	I insist, I have a musical criterion, and for a moment I understand that I am having a musical thread which is very unpleasant to me.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u172	Yes. It's all upset, the truth. Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u173	Of course it's annoying!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u174	Quiet, quiet. On both sides it's annoying, Mr. Losada. [[Interruptions.]] It's annoying everywhere. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] That's why... Quiet, please! [[Interruptions.]] Mrs. Prado, be quiet, please. Silence! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Mr. Gallego, silence! Mr. Gallego, silence, please! Mr. Gallego, Mr. Gallego, silence! Look, it's... Silence! It's okay, it's okay, it's okay! Quiet, please. Silence! Because Mr. Losada is in use of the word and we will respect the use of the word. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Quiet, please. Let's finish this show quietly.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u175	Thank you very much, Mr President, for defending so vehemently on my use of the word. Mrs. Quintas, at least, is sitting in her seat, Mrs. Prado. [[Interruptions.]] At least she's sitting in her seat! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u176	Quiet, please. Silence! Quiet, please! [[Mr Prado del Río speaks words that are not perceived.]] Mrs. Prado, be quiet. Silence! Silence! I think...! We're going to suspend the full because I think we can't continue. We can't go on like this. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] It's impossible to go on like this! So, we're going to try to rerun it or, if not, I see the obligation to suspend the full. Silence! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u177	Expenditure on R & D represents 3.7% of Spain's total and, as you know, the German GDP in Spain's total represents exactly 5.1%. So really, Industry 4.0, you told us here about Germany. I understand you're going to Germany, I understand you're selling the product, but can we really compare ourselves with Germany in terms of innovation capacity? Stop talking about wages! Do you imagine a German Federal Republic minister of education who said they had colleges? I resigned the next day!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u178	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u179	It is clear that I have heard a version – it must be 4.0 – of Mr Méndez's intervention.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u180	Quiet, please. And go and finish it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u181	I'm going to finish. Mr President. But look, employment is other things, Counsellor, it's the training courses. These from the Santa Comba-Dozón itinerary are the workshops schools, which are given only to the Town Councils of the People's Party with absolute disappearance, without the slightest objective criterion. I mean, the job is what happens to R. Do you realize that you're practically the only economic advisor to an autonomous community where Abengoa has industrial facilities that didn't say a single word about that? There's a factory in Teixeiro! Did he say it? He didn't go out in the media, of course! No, no, in intimacy Aznar also spoke Catalan. I read the papers, you have to forgive me. [[Laughter]] Do you realize that...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u182	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u183	...endesa has just said inevitably that it will distribute all the profits into dividends, which means that 70% take it from the Italians, so zero investment unless they get in debt, and the German Government didn't say a single word?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u184	It's over!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u185	Hey, are you really, with these deficits...? Let's not talk about Volkswagen! This group has put forward initiatives in this Parliament which inexplicably – or at least I do not understand the reason – the People's Party voted against.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u186	Thank you, Mr. Losada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u187	Do you, with these industrial and employment problems, really believe that Industry 4.0 is the central issue of the economy of Galicia?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u188	Thank you. Thank you, Mrs. Losada. People's Parliamentary Group. Mr. Arias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u189	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Count. Well, I have the idea that tone has nothing to do with content. You can scream, you can be harsh, you can be bad actor, you can be hysterical, whatever, you can be wrong. So I'm going to make an effort, on the counselor's line, of serenity, quietness and not fix what our interventions are and our policy with an ad-man response exercise. In other times, when I was younger, I logically didn't have biographers, and some of this House wouldn't like me because they simplify people. Logically, they're interested and they don't have any work on the subject either, they're not experts. But there is one fundamental thing, what has been our economic model since 2009? What was it? What was that economic model? You see, we knew that when there's a massive process of indebtedness, Krugman, which is Nobel Prize, I study Nobel Prizes, other times not necessarily because there's better... we have to study, I'm here for that. So they say that when there's a process of indebtedness, it's because people have been wasted without their own income. What's going on? It's out of purchasing capacity. So consumption drops and that triggers investment and we have a horse depression. So, he shows up... Please, respect, Mr. Gallego Lumba! Please! They won't let me trust any argument. Just explain the mechanics, basically, of applying economic science to the Spanish concrete situation. So, in that context, what's going on? That Mr. Zapatero also ends, with his nationalist partners, with 25% of the unemployment rate in Spain. That's what they leave us. And we didn't say you're insensitive, you're not good people, you're with no idea... No, we said, you're incompetent. You wanted to win, logically. You wanted the best for the people, but you didn't know how to do it. You were a witch apprentice and you caused this. As a poor doctor who operates and leaves the patient more injured. So we go in and what do we do? We only have the possibility of removing Galicia from the crisis by conquering the increase in exports, opening up our economy; that is, opening us up in a technical conception, in a concrete economic and political conception. So, that's why we made the whole idea out, out, out. The president even went to find boat contracts because there was no. They were empty steps and it was even him. A little education, Maria, a little education! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] More ideas and less bad education! [[Applause]] So that's the correspondence. There is a serious, automatic process of losing the purchasing capacity of workers, which is too much unemployed. There's a process of loss of business tissue... I'm going to cover this ear because it's systematic this lady; it's a... female. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Do this so I can't think about it. There's a process, so Mr. Conde says: We're going out, export. We have the concept that when people stop there are closed companies. Workers and entrepreneurs have much more in common than they think. We're that model. We believe that workers and entrepreneurs do not have irresoluble conflicts between themselves, but basically share destiny in the fundamentals. That's fundamental, because the increase in workers' wages depends on how they can be employed, and there's a phase mechanic. [[Applause]] That's complex, but you have to know. There's a phased mechanic, and you don't get to high wages without starting to increase the employment of low wages. There are certain types of delays they don't understand. Second. That's the key to the existence of this element of GDP growth for the first time, unemployment decreases, etc. We're in the process of economic growth that everyone recognises objectively. It seems to me that their political-parliamentary competence leaves much to be desired, in my judgment. For a reason, they shouldn't deny the evidence. They should focus on other more controversial areas, but in this are born losers...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u190	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u191	They're born losers. That's why parties like the PSOE and the BNG are continually falling, and only for all kinds of alliances are keeping the municipalities, denying the most voted lists. Anyway, Vigo's theme isn't a little thing. The theme of Vigo is that it turns out that the largest city in Galicia is in legal insecurity and you've managed it. I imagine that in this enormous thing they were so incompetent in Parliament and there, and in addition to the symbolism that you incorporated the Territorial Management Advisor...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u192	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u193	There can no longer be much more equivalence to reality and signs and symbols. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u194	Thank you, Mr. Arias. Shut up. Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u195	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. Martínez, Mr. Fajardo, I have not spoken of any inheritance, I have spoken of a balance. Because this government continues to govern, it will continue to govern, and the balance sheet that this government presents right now is that we have, since the beginning of this legislation, 54,100 people less in unemployment. That is the current balance sheet, and that is the consequence of the policies we are actually developing. You, in your speeches, have been trying to take stock since 2009. I believe that, frankly, it is not realistic if we want to talk about the current situation. They want to make the comparison from the year 2009 as if nothing had happened in 2009; as if the Bipartite had not ruled from the year 2005 to 2009; as if in Spain, Mr. Fajardo, the Socialist Party had not ruled until the end of 2011; when this Government arrived in 2009, Mr. Fajardo, the 2,000 million euros are the ones we have to return to the Greeks for an unreal budget that made the Bipartite, and we are paying it now. So I think, if we want to do a realistic analysis, we have to make comparisons, logically, in a coherent way. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] It seems that, indeed, the Socialist Party did not leave – January 2012 – an economic situation in Spain with a risk premium reaching 650 basic points. So we were paying six times as much interest as they could pay in any country in the European Union. As if the tariff deficit did not spoil the competitiveness of our industries! As if they hadn't left a banking process that totally disbanded the financial system! Ladies and gentlemen, I spoke of a real employment balance which we have at the moment. And we have to follow that direction because we understand it's the right direction: 54,100 people less in unemployment. That's reality, and in that, logically, we're going to keep working. I greatly regret the position that AGE has. Even AGE today also wants to question the own special employment centres. This government will continue to support, Mr Fajardo, the special employment centres because they do a very important job. They are 114 special centres and 2,000 people who are actually having an opportunity to work. This government will continue to support disabled people and will continue to support special employment centres. I don't know what your employment policy is, probably because in your political party you think of something and your partner on the side thinks the opposite. You're probably defending employment policy in Andalusia. See, in Andalusia the unemployment rate is 31.7%, in Galicia of 17.6%. Andalucía is the second community with a higher rate of unemployment among children under 25, 57%; in Galicia, 17 points less. Is that your employment policy? Is that your industrial policy? Well, look, we don't agree. We do not agree because your policy, Mr. Fajardo, and AGE's policy, is to say not to everything. If we followed his recommendations, we would have to close Reganosa, we would have to close Ence, we would have to close Elnosa, we would have to close The Bridges, we would have to close all kinds of industries, all of which, because I really did not listen to any support from your political party to the industrial sector. Now, look, we're supporting these industries and we're supporting all the industries that need support from the financial point of view and from the point of view of industrial policy incentive policies. [[Applause]] In connection with this, Mr. Jorquera said he had not answered any of those questions. We talk about funding, and we can talk about how this government supported Clessa, supported Barreras, supported Artexo Telecom, supported Privilege, supported the multitude of companies that needed financial support, and both through Igape and through XesGalice found that funding. Look, this government's financing policy, using European funds through Jeremiah's loans, using the European Investment Bank funds, is actually enabling all kinds of viable and solvent projects that can be presented in Galicia to be free of funding problems. That's the reality that Galicia has at the moment, and of course we will continue to support it. He knows there's a program, Galicia 1000, which offers different types of instruments, both assets and loans, and guarantees, as well as subsidies to types of interest. This programme, with EUR 75 million, which aims to mobilise EUR 300 million, is at the disposal of the productive fabric. I insist, with European funds through Jérémie loans, with the loan line of the European Investment Bank and with the actions of XesGalice. So a clear funding policy to support the small and medium-sized company. I remember here, by putting a data, that in the Bipartite's policies of gain you had granted access to which the appropriation was EUR 1 million. The average downstream right now is EUR 55,000. It's an example for you to see how we're focused on the small and medium-sized company, and therefore on any company you want to bet on in Galicia. You're talking about strategy and loss of Galicianness, and you also question Mrs. Martínez's investments in Citroën. I'd like to know what your concept of paleness is. My point is clear: any company that has a commitment to Galicia to create stable jobs and invest in Galicia. Every company that has that line of action, will of course count on the support of this government, whether it's Citroën, whether it's Pemex, whether it's Nestle, any company that connects with the territory, creates jobs and generates investments here in Galicia [[Applause]] Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I understand Mr. Losada perfectly. Many times in his speech – I will allow this small comment – I felt that he was more in Madrid than he was in Galicia, because he talked a lot about ministers and little about the councillors; I don't know if that would have anything to do with the immediate future. In any case, what I'm telling you is that we here, in Galicia, are actually focused on innovation policy and industrialization policy. Look, I'm very proud of our tech centers and our universities, which are able to attract innovation and attract research here in Galicia; and for that we're using the strategy of intelligent specialization. I'm proud that there are companies like Repsol, like Natural Gas, like Laboratories Esteve, like Laboratories Roche, like Galese companies like Calvo, like Jealsa, like Navantia, that are developing new innovation projects with our research centers and our technological centers. And the result of our innovation policy, even if you don't like it, is that with regard to the year 2013 – the latest data that have become known – in fact, in Galicia we are increasing our spending on R & D, both from a public and a private point of view. Galicia, ladies and gentlemen, is the third community with a higher increase in R & D spending during 2014. In Galicia – and this is particularly relevant – we are getting R & D spending from businesses, private sector, to increase. So our innovation policy is not only allowing public resources to be mobilized, it's also attracting private resources, and that's the way in which we are marking innovation policy, and of course it's the path we have to keep betting on. Ladies and gentlemen, in my presence, I spoke of the present and spoke of the future. I have indeed spoken about the synergies between the economic policies and the industrial policies of this Government and the active employment policy. I did so from the point of view of the present, with caution but with realism, and I tried to transfer to you that, indeed, the entrepreneurs, the self-employed, the workers, the social partners, of course, are counting on and will continue to rely on the support of this Government. A work that this government, in fact, thanks all the agents, is enabling important achievements for our economy. Our economy is growing today over 2%. We've had three years, ladies and gentlemen, from historical records in exports. This legislation will be the most important in terms of export in the history of the autonomous community. Investment in R & D has increased again. We've got the pulse back in our industrial fabric. And unemployment levels today, ladies and gentlemen, are at the 2010 levels. I therefore believe that the present is marking us that, indeed, economic policies are the right ones, and we must continue to work. We must continue to work, so today, ladies and gentlemen, I spoke about the future, and I spoke about the future, presenting and announcing that we will activate a new employment schedule in Galicia; an employment agenda that will be transversal and, therefore, will affect all government economic policies; that it will indeed improve training and training; that it will strengthen employment guidance and dynamisation services, focusing on Galician employment services; that it will stimulate entrepreneurship by supporting self-government and the social economy; that it will bet on quality and equality in employment; and that, too, ladies and gentlemen, it will bet on employment 4.0. An agenda that will include new commitments – as I have already said – such as the launch of a new vocational training strategy for employment and the convening of the Self-Governing Bureau, because at that autonomous table we will agree with the sector on all measures that can enable greater economic recovery. Finally, we are on an agenda that aims to return Galicia to those jobs that we lost during the crisis, and that, realistically, we can actually recover our human capital, so that they have an opportunity in the labour market. In the face of all this, Your Honor, the workers and the companies, will find a government that will give them answers and will give them solutions to their problems. I only hope that the groups of this Parliament will say whether Galicia, if they say yes to industrial policy, say yes to innovation policy, and put aside that policy of not Galicia, which does not lead us anywhere. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u196	Thank you, Counselor. We suspended the session until 6:30.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u197	Let's restart the session. Let's start with point 3 of the agenda, which is motions. G.P. motion. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Mr. Cosme Eladio Pombo Rodríguez, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in relation to the management of school dining rooms, as well as the establishment of a plan for their reform, expansion and improvement
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u198	No amendments have been tabled to this motion and Mr. Pombo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u199	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, Counsellor, very late. This motion we are now debating is in order to substance the question discussed last November 25 on the catering service of public school dining rooms, in particular those managed by the Co-service and the Red Pearl companies, to which the Education Council terminated contracts due to serious incidences. It says the BNG that, without time it was not –the termination – because since September there have been complaints in various public centers in our country –Culleredo, Cambre, Cuntis, Arousa, and in some other places – for serious problems in the dining services, for the low amount and also for the poor quality of food, even for food that reaches the centres, forcing them to resort to requests for food at home: empanada, snacks, pizzas, not to leave the children without eating. This situation was denounced by several ANPAs from several centres, who announced that they would take legal action to claim termination of contracts, which was finally carried out. There were multiple complaints, and by putting two examples nothing else – we speak of Red Perea, S.L. – they reported poor taste in meals, bad looks, low quality, chicken nugets, croquettes and fish preparations spiced with overspecies, little variety in fruit, etc. On November 9 came the "hot.0", that is, zero broth, of the fish with salad, they only served the fish, which proved insufficient to eat all the users of the dining room, the salad or it was brought in. Many families chose to take the children and take them to eat where they could. Co-service, another good example. From the beginning of the course, insufficient food, unattended special diets, home meals, the two small ovens don't get to warm up the cold food, which sometimes grows cold and sometimes cold. On September 28th, too, "ca.0", the food came under bad conditions, and the vessel was dirty on several occasions as well. In the past I have already stated, on behalf of the BNG Parliamentary Group, that I share the complaint and concern of the ANPAs about the problems identified, in this case these two companies located in Malaga, which provided catering to about 3,000 pupils from twenty public schools in Galicia. They cook, I say, the broth in Malaga, and we see how it came. He'd travel 1,000 kilometers on a cold line. That's right, to warm up the environment, to help make the environment warm up. Insufficient food, etc. Aided co-service at EUR 2.75, maximum price 3.70; and Red Perea, 2.80. This means a father and mother pay 4.50 euros for food, but Co-service only receives 2.75. The nail conditions – if we denounce it – to our understanding basically dominate the low price; of 80 points, in terms of conditions, 50 corresponded to the economic offer – if I am not mistaken, 62% – and the rest of the points, the following 30 points, to which they call quality: rotation of menus and a series of improvements. Unfortunately it is not the first time that the Parliamentary Group of the BNG has filed complaints in the Greek Parliament about the malfunction of the catering service in other public centres, and of course regrets the delay in taking action. But today we bring the motion here to talk about the future and speak of quality, and that is why we intend in our motion to urge the Greek Government to plan the recovery of direct management of public school dining, beginning, of course, by the things that have been attended in this case by these two companies. Recovery of direct management that we understand that you should contemplate the attention of these dining rooms through specific personnel dependent on the Counsellor and qualified to meet them; and also recover the direct public management of the functioning of those dining rooms attended by the ANPAs who wish it. We defend, of course, direct management, I have already said it in the full past, because we defend that public eaters must be of quality, and they must prepare products of healthy, fresh, seasonal quality, meat from the area, dairy from the land, fruits, fresh fish, Galician vegetable, cooked in the kitchen and markets products in the nearby trade. The BNG – I repeat – we defend quality public dining rooms because we believe that they are fundamental, it is a complementary service, but for us they are fundamental. First, to ensure access to the student education system by transporting, i.e., guaranteeing the right to education. Second, to help reconcile the working and family life of thousands of families. We also understand that conciliation is a fundamental right. Third, because many students and students must make at least one quality meal in times of crisis in which we live. Fourth, because we understand that these dining rooms can guarantee the educational value of the school dining service. And fifth, because we understand that also the school dining room of proximity fights climate change, applying to the product the "K.0", "zero-kilometre" -- that is, the nearest products, the better. BNG has always defended the school dining service as a fundamental right, its direct management by the Council in its own kitchens and with quality products. Apart from this first point of motion, we also demand to ensure the installation of suitable dining spaces – and where necessary, kitchen – in all public centers that are built in the future, because of the fundamental character of the dining room. It also sets out a plan for reform, expansion and improvement of school dining rooms, at least in the budget that comes from 4 million euros. Because we're also in favour of extending school lunchers to all centres where possible. Because it must of course expand a service, I say, that we consider it fundamental, for its role in reconciling work and family life, but also for the educational value of the school eaters themselves. We all know that the student, inside the dining rooms, has a time taxed, more limited, that mimics in the food what his peers do, and often eat what they don't eat in the houses, have established rules, collaborate with the elders, there are very important cleaning and hygiene habits, and it turns out to be a socialization space for children of different ages, they even learn to overcome difficulties and improve their personal autonomy. That is why we also argue that, in those school centres that today have not been possible, let us say, the recovery of direct management of food services, whether they should take the appropriate measures in recruitment requirements to ensure the best quality of the menus offered in these centres, by means of the measures put to our motion, which are, at least: first, not to dominate the economic downturn, if a mother and a father pays EUR 4.5, this means that we must go to the food and the quality of food; second, the primacy of consumption of local, healthy, fresh, healthy and balanced Greek products; third, the primacy of the kitchen service in the centre itself, or as close as possible; and the primacy of a dining service that offers better care to the student and that he is able to promote healthy eating habits and health promotion. I mean, it's not the model we want for the German student. We defend food security, but also quality. We believe that our country has most of the quality products that school eaters need, we think that zero kilometre products should be consumed. We also believe Galicia has...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u200	It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u201	I'm going to finish, Madam President. Galicia has Galicians and Greeks willing to work in school dining rooms. I therefore look forward to the support of all parliamentary groups to this motion which defends a public service of school dining and its expansion to all possible centres, with quality food. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u202	Thank you, Mr. Pombo. Intervention of parliamentary groups. The Joint Group has the floor to Mrs. Iglesias Sueiro.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u203	Good afternoon. Good afternoon, President. Well, apart from the fact that school lunchers contribute to the reconciliation of work with family and personal life and their educational value, they say we are what we eat, and how we eat it. A proper diet, that is, a healthy and balanced diet is fundamental to the state of health in children, puberty and adolescence. It is crucial for the proper functioning of the body, proper growth and proper psychomotor development, as well as optimal learning. But good nutrition at this stage of life also serves as a mechanism for preventing risk factors from some childhood diseases that can leave unwanted footprints on the future life of children and children. A well-fed child has less chance of suffering from nutrition, anemia, obesity, dental caries and school learning problems and integration. I will support this motion to recover school lunchers, if possible as they were working before the Government of the People's Party outsourced this service to change it into a sort of "bourger king" of the school. Before the Government applied this nefarious and privatizing measure, the school dining rooms were places of pleasure, the menus were very good, I have faith, although I have been away from teaching for years. They were spaces of health, learning and coexistence, and they were also attended by professionals who maintained a familiar relationship with the student, whom they often attended outside the dining room. How many times do we hear a student at school: "Teacher, can I go to the kitchen and ask Ilda to make me a luisy grass? I just don't feel well!" And there was Ilda, who, in the heat of the stoves of a cold lunch, gripped and took care of the girl. They had a personalized deal with each and every one of the boys and girls, and they even cooked diet menus for those who needed it. Many of these professionals, especially in rural areas, also participated in the supply for the purchase of products, primarily those of the environment and season, more economical and healthier. Access to good food, of good quality, is very easy in Galicia, we are a part of the privileged world as far as our backs and our lands offer us: fish, milk, vegetables, vegetables, fruits of the best in the world. But the PP – a promoter of the "Galiza quality" campaign – decides to outsource this service by excluding these professions of proven excellence and the products of the environment to give it to two companies. We all know the result of management: a disaster. Now the children and the children of Greece consume pre-cooked menus, without ironing, no color or heat, packed in plastics, elaborate God knows with what products and guarantees –for they have been detected in bad state menus–. "Spare food" is how you know this kind of food. I support the motion. Thank you, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u204	Thank you very much, Mrs. Churches. For the Parliamentary Group of the Left Gaga Alternative, Mr Fajardo has the floor... No, Mr. Ramón Vázquez, I'm sorry, I have a different name here.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u205	Good afternoon, everyone. Although we have talked enough about the question of school dining—in fact, in addition to, deep in the previous plenary—there are some issues that have rarely been remembered in this plenary. When President Feijóo arrived at the Government he found a decree of dining, the previous decree of dining in 2007, which in Article 2(c) specifically established that the contract of supply of prepared meals, which we know as catering, was reserved only for cases where the direct management modality was not advised, and a pre-justification was required. By translating this, what I meant was that indirect management was reserved through the catering mode for those centres where it was impossible to provide a kitchen service and, of course, preparation through the direct management mode. Well, all of that flew through the air when Mr. Feijóo arrived. Mr. Feijóo, in addition, found a school dining system in which 92% of the student, I want to remember this, he ate "free." And I say "free" between you and me because we're tired of talking about free public services when no public service is free. Citizens pay their taxes for the services they receive. But what did the Government do when it arrived, when it arrived in a context of crisis, of deep economic crisis, a context where 6 out of 10 hard-earned families arrive at the end of the month, where the difficulties of families to deal with daily purchases are more important than that? Well, what the Government of the People's Party did was to impose an absolutely aggressive compensation on a service that fundamentally affects the feeding of minors and minors in Greece, as I say, in a context of deep crisis. First, it raised the menu price by 40%, up to EUR 4.5. Secondly, it increased the percentage of students who pay for this service, from 8,8 % who had previously paid 20%, which is what it is currently paying. Thirdly, increasing the collection of this service by families. The families contributed to the budgets of the Galician Union for school lunchers 1.5 million euros in the previous system, and in the current system they contributed 6.7 million euros. It is therefore the families who largely support the current budget of the dining rooms. But – I insist – there is something more serious than all this. The German Government imposed a generalized catering system. The data is very clear. In 2008 there were 74 teaching centres in Galicia with catering as a dining service, currently 133; almost double the centres where food is served through catering mode. And at the same time, almost double the number of catering units were closed and dining rooms were delivered through the direct management mode: 23 exactly the ones that are missing from the year 2008. Therefore, the German Government imposed the indirect management system through catering companies in general, no new dining rooms were opened through direct management and therefore ended with a system which in the previous regulation had exceptional character. And the question is obvious. Is it intended to convince citizenship, to convince us that pre-cooked, transported, heated food, served in trays, can be of the same quality as fresh food? Would any of us in his sanatorium feed his kids food like this if you could give them fresh food? I think, ladies and gentlemen, any of us would answer that no, that the best food is the food that is prepared at the same time as being served, the fresh food, the food obtained through short marketing circuits, with local products. That's the best way to feed our children and also feed our pupils and pupils in Galicia. And a variant that we rarely comment on in this plenary: the school eaters were and are a fundamental element of dynamizing local economies where these eaters provide a direct management service; they buy products; they work the staff there and, of course, contribute to dynamizing a very need for initiatives like this. The school dining rooms of direct management have kitchen staff...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u206	Finish it, Mr. Vázquez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u207	...the person who has a competition in this matter, who knows the children, who knows what their needs are, who prepares, if necessary, an infusion to the child who is ill; who controls the quality of food and, ultimately, that ensures proper food. Therefore, we believe that we must bet on this modality of management, we always defend it now, and for that reason we will of course support this initiative of the Galician Nationalist Block. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u208	Thank you very much. For the Socialist Group, Mr. Docasar.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u209	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, Counselor, good afternoon to all. The truth is that in recent weeks we have not stopped talking about school lunchers in this Parliament, although it is unfortunately not because of the great importance of this complementary service, but because of the number of problems that are occurring in many of the Greek educational communities and, essentially, because of the mismanagement of this service by certain catering companies. You all know that the Socialist Group has been in recent times very critical of the policy carried out by the Education Council in relation to school lunchers. And you all also know that the Government of the People's Party launched in 2013 a new decree of dining that we have firmly rejected from the beginning. And now I see that they did it to squeeze Pablo Isla and Amancio Ortega, but they confused the place to do it. You probably wanted to squeeze them in the school and high school windows, when they should do it in the Fairy windows. But, well, those are the things and their contradictions. These are nuances, but important nuances, gentlemen. The Socialist Group wants to take advantage of this motion to talk, even if briefly, about the different management models that exist today in the Greek school dining rooms, and to make some reflections that we consider important. A first model, the direct management model, is what we like most about socialists, because we understand that it serves a good service, gives good quality, has very much involved in their daily management the whole educational community and helps the economic fabric of the towns and villages where the educational center is located. The essential thing of this model is to feed the student as much as possible, be clean of Amancio Ortega or be clean of the humblest of his employees, with the money that the center receives from the Education Council and without waiting for the change of economic profitability. A second model, which also deserves our respect, is when a company lends that service and prepares food in its own school or institute kitchen, many of them small and medium-sized companies, but very incardinated in our villages and in our people. And a third model, which we've always said that we didn't like anything and that it has to do with pure and hard catering service; a system that at this moment is sadly current rage and not precisely because of its good doing. By the way, Counselor, won't this be a system designed to make cash, because everything points to what it looks like? Today, more than ever, we have to ask ourselves what criteria should prevail when we assist a dining room service. Today more than ever, we have to ask ourselves whether the prices of fear for those who compete with some big companies to eliminate their competitors are not behind the sad situation that we are living with school dining. I sincerely believe that here is one of the essential problems for things to happen like those we've seen in the last few weeks. And today more than ever, we also have to ask ourselves whether there must necessarily be other criteria with more weight and more importance in assisting a service of these characteristics. We all know that some companies are competing in fear of price in order to manage the service and phase out their competitors, which will need to be noticed in the quality of the menus. We know that today's prevailing idea is to do more with less, that is, it's about children and children in our schools and schools eating better for that less money. And you know what that is, gentlemen? That's just a coat of hair. I have already said here many times in this Parliament, and I want to repeat it today so that it is meridianly clear, that what we like most socialists is direct management by the Education Council. I trust you, ladies, though it seems that you don't trust yourself. But I don't mind recognizing that there are companies, many of them small and medium-sized, and well-incarnated in the territory, that do things well and also deserve our trust. Small and medium-sized enterprises that give life to the commercial fabric of the villages and villages in which they provide that service, and which perfectly adapt to the eating habits of our children. I want to finish by telling you that the Socialist Group is going to support this motion, Mr. Pombo, and will do so in essence to coincide with its exhibition: the dining room, along with the other great complementary service, which is school transport, is essential to ensure the right to education; it is also essential to facilitate the reconciliation of work and family. As we know, in these times of economic crisis many children and children of families with economic difficulties make their best meal of the day precisely in the school dining room. Therefore, the Socialist Group will support this initiative, which will no doubt seek to improve the dining room that the student receives in our schools and schools. For my part, that's all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u210	Thank you very much, Mr. Docasar. For the People's Group, you have the floor for Mrs. Piñeiro Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u211	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, in these days when it is so fashionable in some municipalities to convert Catholic rituals into civilians or lay people, it seems to me that what they bring or intend to bring here today is socialists, nationalists, and some of those who were and now I don't know whether or not they are, in short, what they intend to bring, to my understanding, is a real purpose of amendment; that is yes, lay. A purpose to amend your own civil sins, sins that you consider to be such, that you do not confess as your own and that you attribute to the People's Party. Maximum secular sin, in your opinion, is nothing other than the existence of indirect management dining rooms, i.e. hired to catering companies. But look, Mr Vázquez has already referred to this – and I do too –: the decree of the year 2007, the decree of the Bipartite so as to regulate the functioning of school dining rooms, says that "this educational service" – it is textually – "has a complementary character". First civil sin, because now they say it's a right of all the students. I follow again textually what Mr Vázquez has already said before. There were two modalities, direct management or recruitment of prepared meals. They did, they prepared, and now they urge the People's Party to undo it. Look, lies and religious, secular and civil sin and everything, Mr. Pombo, because you didn't always defend direct management as the only way to have school dining, it's not true. [[Applause]] It is curious that they defend him now as the only modality, because before, when they ruled – and I remind you precisely those dining rooms of the Vice-Presidency of Anxo Quintana, which, as it was called, and now I don't know whether it's the Block or it isn't, but it was then – what they did, and I know from their own experience, was to urge the ANPA – not open school dining rooms of the Council, not open them – to urge the ANPAs to open their own through the catering service, those who now had to assume the People's Party and what made them significantly increase the dependent indirect management dining rooms of the Galician Union. Purpose of amendment, ladies and gentlemen. But in order to do so, they have to have the firm purpose of not sinning again, because you know as I do that, if they ever rule again, they'll have to forget bonism and demagogy and they'll have to adapt again to reality. I remind you that the present service, as such, is an effort of EUR 44 million to all Greeks and Greeks. Look how much cash does the Conseilería account for the dining rooms when you have to invest 44 million euros! First let me tell them they intended 14. There are almost 13,000 more dining rooms. I also remind you that all direct or indirect management dining rooms have to comply strictly with the healthy menu guide developed by Health. And of the ten and a half million menus serving seventy-two thousand and peak commensals throughout Galicia, we're not going to be the ones that mattered to the few who had problems. Because for us and for the Council any dysfunction that can affect the food and health of our children is transcendent, even if it affects only one person. That's why Junta has acted from the beginning by investigating, checking and revoking contracts with companies for the serious breach of conditions. Continence, there was a continuance after following the established procedure, which must be followed. And the fruit of that responsible attitude, right now there's normality and a necessary improvement in service. The priority of the board, which we understand as well, is to ensure the food and health security of schoolchildren's food at all centres that are managed. Counsellor, we, as you said the other day, think that criticizing the board on this matter is also critical of the ANPA and some of the municipalities that they have, who choose this mode. Some of them, of course, are also a little self-criticism to themselves, in the past and now even to the municipalities in which they are ruling, unless those municipalities enjoy, that is, a bulla – laity – too. Ladies and gentlemen, we will continue to defend this model...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u212	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u213	... – Finished right now, President – that allows eight out of ten children, Mr Vázquez, to be eating for free. And I know that you want your children to have the option to eat free in the school dining rooms at Junta, but look, we, these guys here, get rid of this list, because we'd prefer it if you continue to support those who need it most. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u214	Thank you very much. Motion author group. Mr. Pombo Rodríguez has the floor. Give your voice to the bench, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u215	Thank you, Madam President. I am grateful for the support of the Joint Group, the Gaga de Left Alternative and the Socialist Group for the recovery of direct management of the public service, for us, of school dining – nothing has to do with Vice-Presidentship – school lunchers. The model we stand for is to recover service, recover jobs, recover quality – with products that do not need to be searched out, quality and fresh –, recover and enhance health, recover economic activity from our country too, through the dining rooms, and defend the environment. I regret, of course, the vote against the People's Group, because we are talking about a serious issue, food security in public education, and because it rains on wetting on catering. I know that PP has the catering-privateization-business model above quality. That's the model of the PP, the model of continuous complaints, of bad company service, of claims for termination of contracts, of miserable menus, of scams to families, who pay 4.5 and their children only eat 2.70, and of lack of control; bad broth, I don't know if it's due to competition problems, maybe that's what. We're talking about school menus and that BNG understands that it's better direct management and that where there can't be that direct management to apply the rules that we present in our motion, that we're talking about nothing in today's motion about who pays and who doesn't pay, but about the quality and who manages it. And we feel that there is an infinity of ANPA that claims the same, they demand no more or less that it is a fundamental dining room as a fundamental service, and I have said it before, to guarantee the right to education, for the reconciliation of working life – that we are all in favour of – to ensure healthy, healthy food – and many times that they eat nothing more and nothing less than the only many schoolchildren – and to fight against the winter effect – that we are not left in it – and for the added value of educational teaching, of what is a good food, which of course for us plastic is not. We ask for and will continue to fight, despite those who, for a model of direct management, for a homogeneous model in all of Galicia which can be and which extends to all possible centers. That's what we want from the school dining rooms – not from the vice president, just like Mrs. Piñeiro was confused and confused today's motion with another one. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u216	Thank you very much, Mr. Pombo. Mrs. Pine, please. G.P. motion. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da María Remedios Quintas Álvarez, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in the field of employment
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u217	This motion has been tabled with an amendment by the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u218	You have the floor to formulate your motion to Mrs. Maria Quintas Álvarez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u219	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. This motion is a consequence of the interpellation we made to the Employment Counsellor, who today appeared at his own request and announced to us that he had a plan and that it is a plan for January. We don't know if the plan is being drawn up, if the plan is going to be because day 20 is day 20, and, well, anyway, the Greek Government has us accustomed to the plans, and the reality of the data is different. The Socialist Group presents a number of points in this motion that for us is a set in itself, they are not separate points, but it is a set with which the Socialist Group has mobilized 192 million more in employment policies to vary a productive structure in this country and to vary some labor conditions to which it has led us, because basically seven years of the People's Party's government, although we cannot also see the crisis that has occurred in these years. But it is also true that popular policies did not try to alleviate this crisis, but rather that the working conditions, precariousness and quality of life of people in Galicia with the policies of the People's Party have diminished, and they are going to go on their way to consolidate themselves, because the counselor came in today's morning but did not announce anything specific that would indicate that the productive structure of this country will vary with new budgets, the quality of employment, the quality of people, public services, etc., etc., but – I say – then that plan they had and that plan will be after day 20. We understand that, depending on these results, the plan will walk one side or the other. But the reality that has been produced in Galicia, and we repeat and we don't tire of repeating it, because it's objective data and it's data that beyond that people come to talk here about inheritances, non-heredences, efforts, non-expenditure, competitiveness or not, it's the reality of seven years' budgets of the People's Party, of seven years' government of the People's Party. And we said on several occasions that it wasn't enough to change people, that we had to change policies, and President Feijóo changed people, but it didn't change policies. In the interpellation, beyond the data we were giving, we were talking about that employment policy in Galicia is essentially going to be reminded by very negative data compared with the Spanish State and mainly with those training policies that the People's Party applied in various municipalities governed by the People's Party. We don't know if that's why the Employment Adviser went on to manage the environment or not, we don't know, but the reality is that the People's Party Members were very offended when I called the case of Dozón, and, well, I don't name it again, because it's already in the newspapers and it can be read. Unfortunately, this is why we remember the management of the People's Party in employment policies, for very regrettable data, for 93% of precarious employment absolutely and, well, for the policies that applied training. Because it is true that all political groups understand that training for the unemployed is very important for them not to lose that work itinerary, but, of course, when training is used for other things and those who administer training because they end up doomed, because we believe that the little that has been devoted to employment policies still above all because it is allegedly irregular. As I said, the occupation in Galicia has been reduced by 12%. That's what clearly defines what the policies of the People's Party and the budgets dedicated by the People's Party have achieved. The employment rate is 42%, when in 2009 it was 48%, and we talked about the seven years that the People's Party has been ruling. As a member of another political group said, for, well, they are already heirs of their own policies. The activity rate is six points behind the Spanish average. Given that employment policies in the Spanish State do not work, well, in Galicia we are six points behind. The unemployment in Galicia, since Mr Feijóo governs Galicia, has increased by almost 50%, although, well, it seems, we are already leaving this problem. As I said, Mr. Feijó's policies took advantage of the crisis to get workers and workers rights, they took advantage of the crisis to prevent employment; that's what you were talking about flexibility, that's all of us know what it means: less wages, less hours of work, less rights, more precariousness. And we have put in this motion a number of points that we consider to be fundamental, but of course, in order to carry out these points, it is necessary that employment policies are budgeted, to devote them to what is beneficial to the workers and workers in this country. The policies of the People's Party have led to the growing poverty of workers in this country. They lost 13% of their purchasing power, 177,000 people with part-time jobs, 123,000 people who didn't reach the 7,000 euros a year, more than 300,000 people in Galicia who are poor workers and workers, they and their families; in addition, 131,000 Greeks with a salary of less than 800 euros a month. I don't know what the plan is going to present to us in January, but a succession of plans for seven years has us here, they're putting us in the data we're giving, and it's not data given by the Socialist Group, they're official data. I repeat and repeat on several occasions that international establishments consider not only that unemployment and bad conditions lead to families at the threshold of poverty, but that there is a new category of workers, who are the poor workers, those people who are working but whose jobs do not allow them to live a decent life. If we join the policies that the People's Party is applying as to what we're talking about now, school eaters, medicine, rights, we're achieving a society in subjection. That's why I was saying in the interpellation – and I keep it in motion – that I doubt it's not a clear plan; that is, the ideology on the right, flexibility in employment, which means that I don't have a secure job, a poorly paid job and little rights. That's what makes it easier for this country's big fortunes, which are the least expensive ones, because they have 44 times the lowest employee's salary.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u220	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u221	I'm going to finish, Madam President. So to also announce that there is an amendment from the Joint Group that we would accept as an addition to the points that we have proposed, in no case as a replacement at any point, and I say: the motion that we propose is a whole, it is a plan of employment in general terms and that we understand that it is necessary to approve it as it is. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u222	Thank you, Mrs. Quintas. Intervention of parliamentary groups. Joint Group. You have the floor to Mrs. Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u223	Thank you, President. Good afternoon to all and to all. I am not going to repeat data that are repeated a thousand times in this Parliament about the dramatic situation in which employment is found in our country, the poor quality of employment and the poverty of work that creates in the working class of Galicia this situation. Because also, after speaking throughout the legislation on job insecurity in our country, the People's Party has not been able to change, at least, its policies, and continues to insist on the policy of subsidy to the company, without any kind of commitment, and on its policies of job precariousness, starting with the workers themselves and public workers, with which there is no one who creates the concern of the People's Party for creating quality jobs. But I'm going to take advantage of the intervention to defend my amendment, which is not an amendment because it disagrees, it's an amendment that aims to enrich the text a little, concretely, because the People's Party or concrete measures are given, or are capable of voting that yes and nothing; then I prefer to give them concrete measures, that compromise them. Thus for point 1, when training is requested, I introduce the vocational training amendment through plans aimed at unemployed persons and persons with part-time employment. I mean, the plan can't be like so far, so there's a plan, and who's worth that plan if we can't take advantage of it later? A vocational training plan, because it has to be a training that companies recognize, is no longer the first training plan – I remember those early Forcem plans – that workers and workers would take the courses, they had the training and then companies did not recognize them as valid; therefore, it was time lost and it was a mistake for the workers who attended those courses. But the plan also has to be designed depending on what kind of people it is going to be. It's not the same for a young boy or a young girl, who has no vocational training, who is unemployed, that young boys and girls who already have a previous vocational training, who are older than forty-five years old with experience but without training; plans have to be adapted, if not, they're useless. These plans too, as I say, should be extended to those people who have a precarious job and who want to improve their working life through training, which is a matter that there are no hours now for these people to attend the class, there are no places for workers and workers who want to complete their training. Points 2 and 3 are at the same point, because I think we have to link any kind of aid to companies, and any contract that is given to a company, or a service concession that is given to a company, has to be linked to the creation of quality employment and the maintenance of this job, and the transformation of temporary recruitment into indefinite and full-time employment. It must therefore be linked to a job target, because unless it is a new gift to businesses, especially in a country where 92 percent of the lower-wage companies have part-time contracts, and most of them are women. Therefore, if we do not attach aid and grant grants of work or services to companies, if we do not engage in a recruitment commitment, that is not precarious and that encourages the recruitment of women...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u224	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u225	...indefinite recruitment won't be worth anything. We also ask for an amendment, in point 6, to establish a social wage in an urgent way, because creating urgent employment means that the long-term unemployed will continue to spend years without charge, living in the greatest of the precarious conditions. And in point 7, agreeing to bet on equality in the field of work – that there are specific programmes – what we added is that these programs are being set up in companies by the guide of good practice in the field of equality for collective bargaining, since having a tool we cannot wait for them to draw up a new tool, because it will give us the next century and we will be waiting for the PP to really demonstrate its involvement in gender equality and the fight against violence, with concrete actions that go beyond the minutes of silence and thanks and the pesams they often give. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u226	Thank you very much, Mrs. Martínez. For the German Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group. You have the floor to Mrs. Prado Cores.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u227	Good afternoon. I really don't know, after the seductive and deep debate about employment that you've lived here this morning in this House, if there's anything left to say, because you listen to the head of the German Government, the employment advisor, saying that we're on the path of recovery and that it's the time of industry 4.0... you said, textually, that entrepreneurs need a certain profile of workers and we have to facilitate that profile. It's obvious what profile it is, because we're at a time when the labor market in Galicia is tremendous. So the profile the advisor refers to is a profile of workers and workers who are submitted, nothing demanding, who work very hard, who cover little, very qualified, who perform jobs at that level, but who are paid with wages that nothing has to do with that qualification to facilitate the competitiveness of companies. That's the goal, and that's what the councilman repeated here throughout the morning, which has to facilitate the competitiveness of businesses. When it comes to facilitating the competitiveness of companies and then it turns out that we have this work scene in our country, it is obvious that it refers to itself and what are the competitiveness strategies referred to by the People's Party, which is to facilitate that competitiveness at the expense of the workers' back. That's why the BNG will also support this initiative, which, as we said in the last plenary session, we would ask other questions or we would take some away, but we put the government's duties, because the advisor came here this morning to talk about strategies from his department for 2016, without having done anything about the employment situation in our country, and to improve in something the working conditions of the workers and workers in Greece. The reality is that in Galicia the most common situation is that of labour poverty, that of labour poverty, that of people who work, that of having a job, are below the minimum threshold that allows them to have an independent life, which enables them to develop a more or less decent life project; labour poverty which, unfortunately, is not a conjunctural issue, nor a passing issue, but is becoming a chronic issue, a structural problem. It is becoming structural, because for this they have done the work reforms, they have done the work reforms to give the tools for tremendous labour situations to become definitive, and the data reveal that this is the situation. I'm not going to get tired of repeating data here, today I see that you're in the gallery because many young people, and I'm glad you know, that you hear, really what the situation is, the data of the labor situation that you seem to want to condemn when you get to work, and the data is that in Galicia there are 70,000 people hired with an annual salary that doesn't reach the 5,000 euros. What does that mean? That they don't reach the 350 euros a month, and that's why you can't live. It means that in Galicia there are 177,000 people who have an annual income that doesn't reach the 1,900 euros a year. What does that mean? EUR 150 per month. And they'll ask, perhaps, these boys and girls who are in the gallery how it might be like that. Well, it's possible because there are a lot of people who only work a few hours a month, who only work a few hours a month, with which they give these wages. And this is why we have to add 84,000 men and women who have a wage of less than 700 euros a month. All of these people add up give more than 330,000 people in Galicia are under the poverty line, which means these people cannot normally develop a project of life. If we're aware that in Galicia today there aren't 1 million people working, let's find that a third of the people working in Galicia are below the poverty line. That's the working reality we have in Galicia, and it's against which we have to act. And it's also a job situation that has a woman's face, because it's women who have these most terrible working conditions; they also have a face of young and young, because it's young and young people who have the most precarious, than under contracts of working scholarships, contracts of precariousness, they have lower incomes; or people who have long-term unemployed, because those who have lost their jobs and then have the fortune of entering the labour market have much lower wages and in conditions far more precarious. That's the reality of the labour market in Galicia, a more or less stable job replacement, and a more or less decent wage, for precarious work and poor wages. So I insist that we support this initiative, just like all those who come in the direction that this Government has and put into practice some action to improve the quality of our country's workers and workers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u228	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. For the Parliamentary Group of the Gaga de Left Alternative, Mr Fajardo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u229	Well, since the Alternative Gaga de Left we're going to support the initiative that moves the Socialist Party, although it's the one to support, because since the Employment Adviser has suggested that the exit to the current situation of employment drama is worker 4.0, because we probably don't have anything else left to do new tests to see if the improved version of the 4.0 gets that worker to have rights, which is not happening in the current situation of Galicia. Here if you talked about this morning what is the situation of the labour market, and the labour market is absolutely eventual, badly paid and inaccessible for a large part of the workers in this country. When I say inaccessible is that there is a part of our working class that is expelled from the labour market and that will not have any kind of ability to access that market. So we have to intervene in employment, in the capacity we have to create jobs, but also in those people who unfortunately have no room for employment in this model through protection systems that guarantee their dignity as individuals. During this plenary session where we are talking about employment, there seems to be no problem in this country, and in this country they are already giving themselves absolutely gross ERE that have at risk thousands of jobs. Tomorrow we're going to ask the government about an ERE in a public company like Tragsa, where more than 1,000 people will be fired, when it's a company that continues to make profits, and that it's also being used to get managers, who are political positions of the People's Party placed on their fingers, to continue to receive benefits above the salary, or issues such as ease of having a company car for private use. These are the issues that the People's Party should look at, because one of the problems of employment in this country is the low quality of public employment, or the destruction of public employment. And we who support, as we have already said, initiatives, it is true that we think some of them are better, but that they forget maybe those that are fundamental to the labour market. And the first is the immediate derogation from both labour reforms, because I want to remember in the debate when Mr Zapatero presented his work reform, which is a labour reform that meant unemployment, which has aggravated dismissal, because he allowed more causes of objective dismissal for that dismissal that are twenty-days of wages per year worked, and the People's Party said that that was the dismissal reform rather than the job. And what did you guys do later? A reform of work to go much further, to eliminate, for example, the possibility that in an ERE of extinction the labour authority has something to say. Or, for example, to allow dismissal, simply by which a company deduces that can have worse economic performance next year. So you're the political-made hypocrisy, when they're in opposition they say things and when they rule they do everything the opposite. So the first step is the immediate derogation from both labour reforms. And the second, which we think is very important, is to encourage domestic demand, for example, through the improvement of the minimum wage. It's indecent that in this country one in three workers covers less than the minimum wage, practically in Galicia. It is absolutely indecent that in this situation we find a minimum wage of only 640 euros, which does not give to live. I always ask those who make those decisions to condemn one out of three workers to live with 640 euros if they could keep their family just earning 640 euros. Moreover, I ask even the Members of the People's Party who are here today, if they would be able to keep their car with it, I no longer tell their family, with only 640 euros a month. So I think we're faced with a very important definition, each one defends who defends: the People's Party big corporations and multinationals and we workers, who deserve absolutely decent wage conditions. And, of course – since he couldn't explain it to the counselor this morning – I hope that the skilled employment spokesman of the People's Party, who is able to twist the figures to make it look different, explains to me what he repeated seven times this morning the counselor but who was unable to say what it was like: the cross-sectional schedule for the job that will start in January. We know it's cross-sectional, we know it's an agenda, but we don't know what it's all about; and, if it's the only initiative that was put forward this morning... well, it was two: the first, an employment plan for 300 young people in R & D, or those courses for the formation of middle- and business managers -- it seems that what we have to do here is use public money so that those who haven't suffered from labour reform or wage reductions, those who are the owners and the major managers of companies get training in exchange for the unemployed to stop receiving 64 million euros each month that they get rid of their benefits. So, I hope they explain to me, if we're not going to be in front of the usual one, a People's Party that only does it is to beat the unemployed, beat the working class so that we have worse conditions and, of course, more misery wages that serve to strengthen the economic capacity of the big industries through the deposing of the working class of their money. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u230	Thank you, Mr. Fajardo. People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Tellado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u231	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. I regret to have to explain to the left of this hemicycle – radical left, less radical left, half pensioner left – that Spain left the Socialist Party in December 2011, when the citizen decided, for the most part, to evict them from the Government. I have to remind you, because they left Spain with five million unemployed. Between 2008 and 2011, while you denied the crisis, three million Spaniards lost their jobs, and then the United Left said nothing. They left a country with more than 2,300,000 long-term unemployed, with a GDP falling free, with a government deficit running 9%, with a risk premium that made it impossible for Spain to finance itself in the markets. Mrs. Quintas, it was your government that frozen the pensions of our elders, we went up the pensions. Today the state spends 2,000 million euros more than in 2013 to fund our biggest pensions. You have lowered your salary by 5% to all public officials in our country, to officials of the General Government of the State, to autonomous communities and to local administrations. That's what happened when you ruled, when the Socialist Party in Spain ruled, six out of every ten new unemployed in Europe lived in Spain – and I don't say it, Eurostat said – and now Spain is the most job-creating country in the euro area as much as bothering you. [[Applause]] Today Spain grows, today exports grow by 32% – this year 2015–; they left a public deficit of 9%, today is half: 4.2%; you destroyed 3.4 million jobs in Mr. Zapatero's latest legislation, we created a million jobs between 2014 and 2015; with you GDP fell, and with us the economy grows by 3.3% this year. So that's the difference between them. And Galicia, Mrs. Quintas, Galicia is also better than when the Socialist Party was ruling in Spain; this morning the Economic, Industry and Employment Councilman gave the data: today there are 74,000 less unemployed people than in 2014 – I ask you to review the EPA data, because you have either been wrong or simply missed the truth –. The only thing is that unemployment has dropped in Galicia in the last year by 13.7 % – data from the third quarter of the EPA this year. Today 35,500 unemployed less than a year ago, youth unemployment is 7 points smaller than a year ago, long-term unemployed are 10 percent less than a year ago. And, Madam Thursday, Galicia's unemployment rate is 17.7%, Spain's average unemployment rate is 21.2%; and, in its reference, its productive model is Andalusia has a unemployment rate of 31%. So no lessons, thank you very much. On the initiative you present, I have to tell you to present a motion with eleven points, proposals of the most diverse. I have to tell you, without a sense of offense, that some are quite ill-written, of difficult understanding, but most of them are already being done; not for a few months, but for years now, such as training in key competences, incentives for the transformation of temporary contracts into indefinite – they already exist – the prioritization of collective contracts in contracts for long-term unemployed young people, or the wager for equality between men and women in the workplace. That's already being done. So I have to tell you, ask us to support what we've already done? Of course, of course! You talk about strengthening the Public Employment Service in Galicia; I have to tell you that in order to strengthen the Public Employment Service in Galicia we invested 15 million euros this year. You speak of the most personal: this year 2015 has increased the staff of the Public Employment Service in Galicia to 126 new technicians. So what you're asking for in your initiative is already being done. Today the Public Employment Service in Galicia has 400 own technicians and has 500 workers in partner centres and partners funded from public resources – six million euros in the corresponding entities –. So how are we not going to support what we are already doing? Of course I do. That is why we would support seven of the eleven initiatives that contemplate your proposal. Yes, I'm telling you, some of us didn't approve. You're talking about reactivating the territorial pacts for the use of the Bipartite, which, as you know, functioned as genuine clientele chiringuits, always serving as mayors of the Socialist Party. Children, cousins, nephews of socialist charges were used there. I'm not saying, they said high positions of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u232	Quiet, quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u233	Speak, if you have any doubts, or Mr. Gallego, speak to Mr. Carlos Prince. Mr. Carlos Prince can give you a good account of that. I do have to tell you that the territorial pacts for employment have been eliminated by an agreement of the Greek Government with social agents, trade unions and employers. We, of course, are not going to support an initiative that aims to restore the territorial pacts for employment, but if I tell you one thing, your initiative contemplates eleven points, we are willing to support seven of them. If you want to work together in favour of employment, here's the People's Party, which has been doing this for seven years: working to keep fewer people unemployed today. If you bring an initiative with which the only thing you want is artificial fires to welcome the election campaign, I understand that you will ask us to vote for it completely. In that case, this Parliament will not approve anything in the field of employment today. If what you want is to add some effort between the People's Party and the Socialist Party to tell that opportunistic and populist left that they are not the solution, it will certainly count on our support. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u234	Thank you, Mr. Tellado. Motion author group. Mrs. Quintas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u235	Thank you, Mr. President. The concept of opportunism, Mr. Tellado, I'll explain later, at the end. Look, these wonderful policies, I feel that comprehensive reading is a challenge; of course, socialist governments have made a lot of effort in which all the children of the workers could study and have comprehensive reading, I feel it's not all you want. [[Laughter]] I'm telling you that, as we're at the time of budgeting, we've made a series of amendments, it's an eleven-point writing that wouldn't make sense if they weren't all go together. On the other hand, I also have to tell you that the subject of the election campaign will be done by the councillor, who today came up with his own request to explain, as I said before, that he had a plan, and a strategy – that we don't know until after the 20th day, or ask his president, who doesn't know if he has a plan for the 20th day or before the 20th day; but it would be good if he wasn't on a permanent election campaign, without knowing what he's going to do, where he's going to go, etc. On the subject of the election campaign, for good. And to me, Mr. Tellado, I'm very concerned about the extreme radical right, the other radicalities, for, well, we see that they have no bigger problems. Look, the reality of the policies of the People's Party is that 30% of Galician workers are poor, 92.3% of contracts are temporary, industrial employees have fallen by 25%, 70% of unemployed have no help, 35% of workers remain below the minimum wage. The plans that you have for Thursdays last – they last Thursday until thirty-three years, will be by the age of Christ, and they charge five hundred euros –... And look, what pro quo, Mr. Tellado and Mr. President. It seems that the President of the House of Ourenses in his Membership likes to teach the personal apps of some people who are not criminal. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I imagine that I, not in my Parliament, will also be able to put on your tapes so that you can explain how in Ourense you can get a job – don't you hear? –...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u236	You can't hear anything. Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u237	...but since the Deputy takes out the app, we know...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u238	Finish. Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u239	...that the president of the Ourense Parliament, to give jobs, offers women to go to a hotel and harass them sexually.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u240	Finish. It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u241	It's over, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u242	Thank you, Mrs. Quintas. G.P. motion. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da María Carmen Gallego Calvar, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia and the demands to be made to the central government in the field of fighting child abuse
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u243	This motion was tabled an amendment by the People's Parliamentary Group of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u244	For the defence of the motion, Mrs Gallego Calvar has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u245	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. After the debate we had in the full past, in which unfortunately the Councillor of the Presidency, Mr Rueda – who was to whom we were debating – did not want to introduce himself to this debate and the Social Policy Adviser came, which in this matter is what he has to tell us, because – as it was evident during the course of the debate – all the questions we have asked from the Socialist Parliamentary Group about the coordination between the services of the Galician Union, the prosecution, judges, lawyers, etc., because it is absolutely non-existent, and the Councillor was not able to answer because, among other things, it is not their competition. What we bring here today is a broad motion on which we try to collect all the recommendations that have been made to us since the Gaga Association of the Fight Against Abuse to Minors, which once again accompanies us in this plenary to deal with this issue. We were saying in that debate that in Galicia we had to have a protocol between the different administrations, among the different institutions, that it had been mandated by the state observatory since 2007, that in 2011 this petition was made to the Government of Greece and that today, today, we are still in 15, was still not doing this protocol. But there were more demands in our inquiry, and apparently, at least in the debate, the Social Policy Adviser agreed on some of them. So the motion we present today aims, on the one hand, to circumscribe to whom to attend in the face of child abuse. We understand that it is necessary to consider, within the current system of protection for children, all the minor victims, even if they are not in a situation of unemployment; because, ladies and gentlemen, you have to know that in Galicia the Welsh Public Administration only addresses victims of child abuse who are in a situation of unemployment. I mean, if we have a minor victim of ill-treatment who is not in a state of unemployment, you don't enter the circuit of the board protection system in Galicia. So we believe that this universal system must be done, because it is also our conception of what social services should be. For us, social services must have a universal character. I can, tomorrow morning, when I need, for example, to attend to me for a dependency that acquires, be able to go to social services, in the case of municipalities, to the nearest social services and through there to process my requests for me to attend to the system of dependency, regardless of how much income I have, then I'll do what I have to do. But social services have to be – hence, for our ideological conviction – of a universal nature. So what we're asking is that victims of minor abuse be within this child protection system. We also have to try to ensure that all minors are considered victims of macho violence when their mothers do, both in the Welsh legislation and in the state legislation. It's true that there has been a change this summer through rules of a detainment character, but still today they don't have the coverage that the minor victims of abuse should have when their mothers are victims of macho violence. That's what we need here today, both for self-government legislation and for state legislation. At the third point, we call for the adoption of this interinstitutional coordination protocol and for at least the following principles to be considered: We are talking about ensuring the scientific character of all the measures and actions to be carried out. We're going to leave ourselves, in such a serious and serious matter of experiments, and we're going to stop testing, we're going to do what needs to be done as long as it's scientifically tested and as long as it's giving priority to the best interests of the minor. It is necessary to specialize all the professionals who work and who have to intervene in the various moments of the process of protection against abused minors, both in prevention processes and in detection and denunciation processes, and then in the following processes. Specialization. He reported in the interrogation cases in which many times, by an initial bad approach in the taking of the statement or by matching the child or child abused with his assailant even in the courts, many evidence is unused because the victim is revitalized, the minors soon disembarked, they are afraid, etc. Therefore, it is essential that the specialization of professionals and professionals who have to intervene at different times is a guarantee. And it's not worth specializing in abuse, it's got to be specializing in child abuse because it's not the same as serving a victim of abuse older than a victim of minor abuse. Today they are still denouncing from the Galician association and from various professional fields, as in many cases they are making it difficult, for example, the work of psychologists and psychologists because they are forced to obtain the consent of the aggressors to evaluate children and children, with which this poses a risk of aggression both to the victims and to the professionals. Specialization is essential. Multisectoral coordination guarantee. There is no point in having an interinstitutional protocol if it is not guaranteed that different entities will be coordinated. We are aware today that in many cases – as we also denounce in that debate – social workers issue reports so that abused children and children cannot be visited by the abusive father, but those reports are being tried in Galicia – no place else, it happens in Galicia – that they don't have any case. Public service character. Of course, child care services must be of a public nature, by conviction and in addition, because, as we know of what has been outsourced and privatized to this day, the consequences are disastrous. We have visiting centers that are managed by private companies where batterers coincide with maltreatment. I don't want to keep telling 'cause the truth is they're putting their hair like Scarpies. The mandatory nature of the provisions referred to in the protocol. It is of no use to have a protocol that is full of good intentions if administrations are not obliged to comply with what is said in this protocol. This is the third point of our motion, but there's more. We believe it is necessary, as I said, to specialize and also in the case of counsel. We therefore ask the Government of Galicia to put the means to create in the office of counsel specialization in child abuse. And, of course, the Galician Institute of Legal Medicine, an institute that has to provide more human and material resources with specialization in child abuse, as it reported in my intervention how in many cases minor victims of gender-based violence are treated by doctors who are not even specialized in xynecology. In collaboration with the universities of Greece, research lines on child abuse in their various expressions – the etiology, statistics, sociology, crime, evaluation, treatment, medium and long-term impact on the various areas of health – and promoting scientific debate must be put in place. For what? Well, to prevent theories like parental alienation syndrome, which have no scientific basis, they are unfortunately implanting in the services that hire Galician Union with universities, as we have reported. This is about Galician Union, but we also demand in this motion what the State Government must do. As stated earlier, the Government of the State must ensure that all minors are considered victims of male violence when their mothers are, but in addition the Government of the State must create judges specialized in violence against children both for criminal proceedings and for civil proceedings. Mrs Rodríguez Arias' amendment, I will speak on the second round. In any case, these are the minimum claims that are presented today through the Socialist Group, but that are claims of the Greek Association against Child Abuse that we consider to be viable and that they do not require an uncommon effort, but that they basically require the political will of the Greek Government. And, I insist, the political will of the Government of Greece that must go a little further than the Council of Social Policy and must also involve the Vice-President of the Galician Council, since in the case of the Prosecutor's Office, in the case of the College of Lawyers and in the case of the judges it is up to him to put in place these measures that are not working today and on the edges of the system are colluding many desperate cases for many families, for many minors abused and for many mothers who see impotently that the administrations do not care about them when their children have their lives at risk. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u246	Thank you, Mrs Gallego. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs Rodríguez Arias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u247	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, everyone. Indeed, Mrs Gallego, you ask for political will, we from the People's Parliamentary Group also ask the Socialists' Parliamentary Group to unanimously take the initiative we are talking about and which is as important as the fight against child abuse in Galicia. We agree on many of the issues you are presenting today through a motion, which is why we tabled an amendment to deal with certain issues and we hope that you will agree with this House's majority group so that we can take an initiative in this direction. Some questions need to be clarified. You say you need to consider within the current system of child protection all the minor victims, even if they are not in a situation of helplessness. To make it clear that the child protection system is not limited only to children in situations of unemployment, Mrs Gallego, but also to a set of preventive and protective actions. The protection workers care both for the most serious cases – whether we are talking about situations of unemployment – and also for the least serious cases – so we would be talking about risk situations in which it is not necessary to separate the child from his family, but if we need to intervene in the administration. We agree, of course, to ensure that all minors are considered victims of violence when their mothers are so, but you know that last August 18 came into force the modification of the protection system for children and adolescents, and from there they are considered to be direct victims of violence for minors. It is an amendment that reinforces the protection of minors from situations of gender-based violence, sexual abuse and ill-treatment, and establishes the obligation to inform the prosecutor's office of any situation of child abuse, otherwise it might be possible to incur a default offence. We agree to adopt a coordination protocol between the institutions in collaboration with the other administrations. You know that the State Observatory for Children has approved two basic protocols: in 2007, the Basic Protocol against Child Abuse and in 2014, the Basic Protocol against Family Abuse. Fundamental, right, Mrs. Gallego? Galicia has participated in the elaboration of these two protocols. Furthermore, through the Welsh Strategy for Children and Adolescents, Galicia is planning to develop a specific autonomic protocol, and in our community there is also a protocol for the action of sexual abuse of minors. We agree to put in place, in collaboration with the German universities, lines of research. Within the Welsh Strategy for Children and Adolescents, research and innovation in the field of childhood and adolescence are promoted in specific areas, such as the fight against child abuse, in collaboration with universities. We also agree that the Galician Union should sit down and sit with the College of Lawyers to study the possibility of creating in the profession of lawyers specialization in child abuse. We think it is worth making a unanimous agreement when we're talking about minors, minors who are being abused in our community. We're talking about 1,000 children's deprotection files per year in Galicia and we're talking about 8% of these files being suspected of physical abuse. Currently 3,760 minors have a protection file, 1,464 with public custody and 405 with judicial measures. So, speaking of such an important and serious issue, we hope that you will reach an agreement with our group and we can bring this issue out unanimously. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u248	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Arias. Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Iglesias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u249	Good afternoon. Thank you, President. Child abuse is defined as the abuse or neglect of which children under the age of 18 are subject and includes all kinds of abuse, physical and/or psychological, which either causes or can cause harm to the health, growth and dignity of the child or endangers his or her life in the context of a relationship of responsibility, trust or power as it may be the family case. International studies have revealed that one fourth of all adult people have been exposed to physical abuse in their childhood, one out of five women and one out of 13 men report having suffered sexual abuse in their childhood or puberty. Many children and children are subjected to emotional physical abuse or victims of neglect by whom they should be cared for: the family environment, but also the state through their institutions. In this case, I refer to children and children who live in a situation of severe poverty generated by social inequality, lack of adequate housing, unemployment, precarious work and, in general, victims of austerity policies in social, health, work or education, and who are therefore deserving of the sad category of ill-treated children. But the abuse of this motion we are debating is a very specific abuse, it refers to child abuse of gender. Children and children who, along with their mothers, suffer the attacks of a abusive father and husband in independent acts. Children and daughters are also abused and murdered. Their bodies present evident evidence, when they are hospitalized or murdered, in most of the cases of prior assaults, fruit of a life of gender violence, only for the ill-lucky fate of having a violent, violent, abusive father. They're twice as much victims of the invisibility of what they've been subjected to, despite the unanimity of experts who have long considered these minor victims of ill-treatment. Minors who have been abused and murdered by their parents for the only reason that they continue to increase suffering and violence against their mother, extending it to the maximum by mediating it through their daughter or son. But it also reaches the category of victim of gender abuse – the child abuse of gender – who is orphaned, who is a constant witness of acts of violence by his father against his mother or himself or himself, who is forced to share space and time with his batterer by the wrong application of shared custody, who does not take into account the interest and protection of the victim, but does give credit to a pseudo-scientific theory of proven falsehood as is the syndrome of parental alienation. Judicial decisions have in many cases women victims of gender violence share custody with the accused for ill-treatment, with the result of the death of the minor, with cases known to all, the last, here, in Galicia. I will support this PSdEG-PSOE motion at all its points. We must agree to end the violence of the macho, which, in the form of child abuse of gender, perpetuates a cycle of destructive behaviors and models of negative behaviors in the child or child growing up in the presence and suffering violence against women. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u250	Thank you, Mrs Iglesias. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. Mrs. Peace.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u251	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I shall begin by saying that the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group will vote in favour of this initiative presented by the Socialist Group and which covers very diverse areas of how to address from public administration these situations of ill-treatment, neglect, neglect, sexual abuse of children and children in our country. I would like to begin by saying that addressing this problem is a question of resources which are destined, as is set out in some points of the initiative presented by Mrs Gallego Calvar, but it is also a question of political will, which is often – let us say – subsidiary of those resources which are intended. And, in fact, I also wanted to begin by regretting that in the question of the People's Party, the Government of Galician Union wanted to give a very partial view of this matter with the presence of the Social Service Counsellor, as if this were merely an aid issue, which also has that aspect, of course, and that some issues of this matter are covered by the initiative. But, of course, we consider it to be a problem which – and very much – highlights the issue of care and care for children and the victims of this situation, and that, therefore, the Vice-Presidentship, in addition to competences in justice, police, emergency matters and also as coordinator of the Government as a whole, would make much more sense. Because, in order not to repeat questions that have already been said by other spokesmen, we believe that two issues of which Mrs Gallego Calvar spoke are very important, which is to deepen in different fields, also in the judicial field, in the field of different administrations, in which the approach made by this problematic part of true knowledge, of true information, of research and, above all, of scientific rigour in the analysis of the problem, because there are many actions on a single basis and exclusively to prejudice, right, starting with a certain lack of knowledge in many areas due to lack of specialized personnel. I am an employee of the Administration of Justice and I assure you that there is no staff specialist in the vast majority of the judges. In the only area where there are some personnel specializing in minors, there is no such specialization in juvenile cases, but in many other judges, in gender-based violence or in other judges who have to deal with issues related to abuse of minors, and therefore on many occasions judges, prosecutors and officials are guided solely by prejudice in addressing this problem. For example, prejudices based on the fact that in 85% of the cases abusers or abusers of children and children are part of the nuclear family environment or the extensive environment of these minors. To think, for example, that they are far more vulnerable to children than children, that they are more vulnerable to children, but not surely to the magnitude they think, but the proportion, according to some data, is between 60% and 40%. In any case, we would like to do special fine-tuned in that aspect and in another of what Mrs. Calvar also spoke. Here we have already talked about several interventions by the Greek Strategic Plan of Children and Adolescents, in which action measures had been established in the various fields, even with a timetable for their implementation and with – let us say – standards of achievement of these objectives, and of course we believe that there is a abandonment in relation to the evaluation of the functioning of the various measures that have been put into practice. And I therefore believe that it is a finding that the problem, in addition to resources, is also of political will, of giving this matter the real dimension and the real importance it has. We therefore welcome the fact that this initiative was presented by the Socialist Group, that we hope that it will be adopted unanimously, and that all and all of us will take the necessary rigour each of the points that are raised in this initiative and that they can be put into practice. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u252	Thank you, Mrs. Paz. Parliamentary Group of Alternative Left Gallega. Mr. Ron.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u253	Good afternoon, everyone. I was going to begin with just about one of the reflections that have been made about the situation of invisibility that the children and children are suffering from in our country victims – as said by the spokesperson of the Mixto Group – of a situation of poverty, which is invisible, that they are invisible, but we are going to enter directly into the subject of this abuse that we will call in context of macho violence, a maltreatment that also invisibility, because there is a legal remedy that causes defence, and children, children, and adolescents will be deprived during the judicial procedure of procedural rights and fundamental rights. And this is not said by Alternative Glaga de Left, says the Galaga Association against Child Abuse, which recently filed a petition with the European Parliament's Committee on Petitions precisely because of the Spanish State's failure to comply with European directives on victims of gender-based violence and minor victims. And it's already said: there are strategic plans that are not met; they exist even at the state level. We have the National Strategic Plan for Children and Adolescents 2013-2016, which is structured on the basis of the eight objectives, such as the eight Millennium Development Goals, and we know that some and others did not develop logically. So what we need to do, and logically what this partnership calls for, is what this initiative calls for, is the improvement of the judicial system, adapting it to the specific needs of victims of violence and child abuse, avoiding the encroachment of fundamental and procedural rights, eliminating the macho clichés and on the child witness. In addition, there is – you don't know very well why – the relation of parental alienation syndrome, which is a patronage, an ascient mistress, without any scientific basis, who ultimately rests in a clear machist bias on the part of her inventor, the American Richard Gardner, who only does it is to pour, through prejudice, the inability of the child and the child to declare in the face of a situation of machist violence, and then has their therapy, right? It's something totally adorable as psychological torture can be subjected as children and children according to a masculine prejudice. We understand that this has no meaning and that what it takes is precisely what this initiative requires: specific training, very specific and specialized training to be able to care for children and children victims in contexts of macho violence, because there is something fundamental: a child or a child is not able to lie about a situation of ill-treatment, about a situation of macho violence; a child or a child living in hell in a marriage where the father takes his mother is unable to lie about that fact. So we understand, in addition, that, when there is a violation of procedural rights above, there is a double victimization of these children, and on the basis of prejudices that have no scientific basis, based on which it is not providing all the means that actually comes to us by law and by different plans. Here we have Law 4/2015, of 27 April, of the status of the victim of crime, in which, moreover, it is not specified about the specific training that must have people who collect testimony from children and children who are victims of macho violence, where there is no obligation of the ongoing training actually updated. And, therefore, we understand that we are so weak in favor of this society and of the children who already have to live sadly in many homes in poverty and also in a situation when what it denounces is produced, what this initiative of the Socialist Party does. For we understand that what needs to be done is, unanimously, to agree to eradicate the scourge of male violence and to listen to children and not to act through prejudice, but through professionals who know how to collect witnesses, who know perfectly how to listen to children as they deserve, who is not from the very beginning through mistrust, through macho bias, through thinking that they invent because they benefit the mother. Let us hope that this initiative will see the light unanimously, because we see that there is will on the part of the People's Party, and that would be good news. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u254	Thank you, Mr. Ron. The author group of the motion, Mrs Gallego Calvar, Socialist Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u255	Thank you, President. First of all, I would like to thank the Joint Group, the Glaga Alternative on the Left and the BNG for their support for this unconditional initiative and without any amendments, since, as I said in my exhibition, it is not even the requests that are made here that the Socialist Group proposes, but that are the minimum issues that must be claimed and that the Glaga Association against Abuse to Minors is moving us, who have also certainly moved to Galician Union. And secondly, some clarification to Mrs. Rodríguez Arias. The first is that, according to a protocol that already exists between the Prosecutor's Office, Justice, Mr Rueda's Council, the Prosecutor's Office and the judges communicate to the child protection services, that is, to the Social Policy Council, to the juvenile department, those cases in which it is considered that under this or other circumstances a minor may be in a situation of deprotection. Mrs. Rodríguez Arias, that's not what I'm saying, says the Social Policy Counsellor in his speech. But more, more, it is more, before presenting this initiative the debate, the one who talks to you about going to the Council, about work and well-being, about talking to the Chief Executive Officer of the Family and the Deputy Director, and talking to the Juvenile Protection Service, and finding out what was going on. Because what's going on is that on many occasions, as I've already told you at the beginning, the Labour and Welfare Council itself reports on the workers and social workers who are dismissed by the judges, they don't listen to them. So it's essential a protocol that requires it. And you, in your amendment, Mrs. Rodríguez Arias, what you do is empty some of the points we introduced. Because look, when we say we consider everyone in the system, even if they are not in a situation of unemployment, if you think they're all already included, you could vote for it. You don't want to include it in your initiative; therefore, you know that not all are included. When we ask for a protocol to be approved, and we ask for minimum guarantees, among them that this protocol is mandatory and that there is specialization of professionals, it is because we know what is happening today, for example with attention to mental health and psychiatry through Sergas, what is going on with Immelga or what is going on in the trials. When we talk about creating in the office of counsel a specialization in child abuse, hey!, what you tell us is that you get in touch with lawyers' schools to explore the possibility. Mrs. Rodríguez Arias, explore the possibility, no; the Greek Government has sufficient competence to, by means of, of course, demand that a specialization of child abuse be created in the office of counsel. And when we say that in research with universities, an agreement is made to promote scientific debate so that the syndrome of parental alienation...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u256	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u257	...you're going to get rid of this, too. So, I, Mrs Rodríguez Arias, for the sake of this consensus which I consider necessary and essential, ask the President-in-Office to allow us, if it is all right, to trade for a moment, because, as the People's Group proposal is, our group considers it to be absolutely insufficient and therefore we cannot accept the amendment.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u258	Thank you very much, but as soon as possible, Mrs. Gallego, please. [[Pause.]] Can we start the vote? [[Assentment.]] Motions vote
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u259	Well, let's get started. If you like, take your seats, please. We're going to start voting on the motions. We voted for the motion of the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, at the initiative of Mr. Pombo Rodríguez, which no amendments have been tabled. We vote. G.P. Motion vote. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Mr. Cosme Eladio Pombo Rodríguez, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in relation to the management of school dining rooms, as well as the establishment of a plan for their reform, expansion and improvement [[Votation.]] [[Pause.]] The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u260	We are voting on the motion by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mrs Quintas, which accepts the amendment of the Joint Group as an amendment to addendum and which is voted on together. We vote. Text vote on the G.P. Motion. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da María Remedios Quintas Álvarez, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in the field of employment. [[Votation.]] [[Pause.]] The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u261	Finally, we are voting on the motion from the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia at the initiative of Mrs Gallego. Did you agree, Mrs. Gallego? Yeah, give him a voice.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u262	Yes, President, there's a transaction, which, if I may, I'll try to explain it to the House so that we all know what we're going to vote for. Points 1, 2 and 3 of the original motion of the Socialist Parliamentary Group are accepted by all as drafted in the motion. Point 4 of the Socialist Group's motion deals with the amendment of the People's Group, and it remains: "Initiate, in collaboration with the schools of counsel, the creation in the office of specialization in child abuse." Point 5 would have to be voted on separately, on our initiative. Point 6 of the socialist initiative becomes point 4 of the People's Group's initiative to the "scientific debate", or, rather, to our point 6 to the "scientific debate." And paragraph (b) would be put to the vote separately in point 2. That is, a separate vote of point 2 (b) and point 5.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u263	Let's see, ma'am... collapse. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u264	Nothing, it's quiet, it's easy, it's easy. [[Laughter]] point 5(a). Mr. Rueda, don't laugh that this is because of you, who didn't want to trade you. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u265	Well, let's do the math. We can vote 1, 2, 3 of the Socialist Group and item 4 of the compromise; that could be a vote.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u266	That's right.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u267	Point 5, second vote. Point 6, with point 4 of PP, to the "scientific debate."
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u268	Point 6 is as drafted in the amendment of the Socialist Group, but it ends up in "scientific debate".
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u269	In "scientific debate". Well, perfect. And then it could be voted on with points 1, 2, 3 and 4 traded.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u270	Yes, indeed. And it could also be voted on in point 1(b) with those. And point 2 can be voted on in conjunction with paragraph 5 (a), because it will be the same result, President. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u271	Well, if you think so, I'll do the vote, and whatever God wants. Let's get out of here, finally... let's just go easy, that things always come out much better. [[Laughter]] [[Murmurs.]] So we proceed to the vote and we vote on points 1, 2 and 3 of the Socialist initiative but point 4 of the amendment of the People's Group, but point 6 to the "scientific debate" of the amendment of the People's Group, but point 1 of paragraph (b) is valid? We vote. Voting of points 1, 2 and 3, but the transactioned text of points 4 and 6, but point 1 of point (b) of the G.P. motion. the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da María Carmen Gallego Calvar, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia and the demands to be made by the central government in the area of fighting child abuse. [[Votation.]] [[Pause.]] The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 70. The voting is positive. These points were therefore adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u272	And now it's the worst. Now there is point 5, which is voted separately, and what I didn't understand is whether we could also vote paragraph 2 of point (b) together with point 5. Well, perfect. So point 5 and paragraph 2 (b) We vote. Voting of the transactioned text of point 5, but paragraph 2(b) of the G.P. motion. the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da María Carmen Gallego Calvar, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia and the demands to be made by the central government in the area of fighting child abuse. [[Votation.]] [[Pause.]] The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. This point and this paragraph are therefore rejected. Agenda Change
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u273	Before continuing with the development of the agenda, please inform your honourable Members that the oral question at plenary session No. 44285, which would be 7.1 on the agenda, will be substanceed at the last hour of this afternoon, after the third session of the GNP. We're going to make up three non-law proposals today and then the question. So let's start with the first of the non-law propositions. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da María do Carme Adán Villamarín and D. Francisco Jesus Jorquera Caselas, on the reopening of the parliamentary commission of research to analyze and evaluate the economic and financial evolution of the old savings boxes and the causes and responsibilities of their current situation
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u274	No amendments have been tabled to this non-law proposal. You have the floor to make your proposal not by law Mr. Jorquera.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u275	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen. We are bringing the debate today a great enigma, one of the mysteries to be solved by those who like some television programmes so much: what was it about the Committee on Boxes? I begin by clarifying that the intention of this group was to debate today a proposal in which we not only called for the immediate reopening of the Commission's work, but also called for Parliament to express its rejection of the President of the Commission for his responsibility in failing to comply with Parliament's agreements, which we consider to be extensible to the Group of the People's Group as a whole. Unfortunately, the Bureau understood that the text was not adjusted to that laid down by the Rules of Procedure. For that reason, we have to replace it with the initiative now under discussion, registered in September 2014. But even if it's an initiative more than a year ago, it has full vigil, because the Box Research Commission is still missing. The background, ladies, you know them. In July 2013, after a system of express sessions, the last appearance of this commission took place. On 9 October 2014, in the context of the debate on the state of our nation, the German Parliament unanimously approved the continuity of its work, with the aim of analysing the new documentation provided to the Commission, a documentation that showed machining practices by some of the senior cash executives to personally enrich themselves at the cost of causing serious economic injury to the entity. In that resolution Parliament also agreed that the Commission should conclude its work with the issuance and approval of the corresponding ruling before the end of that session, i.e. by the end of 2014. It has spent a year and two months since the adoption of that unanimous resolution - I insist - of this Parliament, it has spent almost two and a half years since its last appearance in the Commission, and the Committee on Research on Boxes is not aware of anything. And in the meantime, ladies and gentlemen, a lot of things have happened. It happened that he was left of our boxes and was banked and privatized, without even waiting for the limit set by Brussels, because a alleged report – which, of course, was not provided to this Parliament – recommended his early sale to avoid the depreciation of the bank resulting from our boxes. And the results already know them: the benefits of Abanca have already exceeded the official selling price widely, and, as we have shown in this Parliament, the sale has been a loss sale, a real ballast, the cost of looting all the taxpayers. For if at the EUR 1.003 million of the official selling price we discounted the number of public coverages, it turns out that not only will one euro be recovered from the EUR 9.000 million that were used for its sanitation, but it turns out that it has still to be sold. It has also happened, ladies and gentlemen, that the policy process of our savings has only accelerated. Since 2009, as we have repeated so many times in this House, Galicia has been the most backward community in which credit was granted, and nearly EUR 14,000 million of our emigrant savings to provide credit to other territories. And it finally happened that the National Audience condemned four former Novacaxagaliia directors and a lawyer for unfair administration and improper appropriation. Look, ladies and gentlemen, there have been those who considered this exemplary sentence, certainly not the BNG. We can't consider an example of a conviction that doesn't even bring prison sentences for those responsible for looting our main credit institutions. But beyond legal valuations, political responsibilities remain undeclared. The president of the Galician Union seems to be clear. After knowing the sentence, he stated the following – quoted textually –: "Justice is in line with what the Board thought at the time and there will be other political leaders who cannot say the same." What do you mean, Mr. President of Galician Union with these words? So, president, you don't remember that Junta had exclusive powers over our savings institutions? What did the guardianship and good government have to do with these entities? Did the Galician Board have a representative in the Novacaxagali Control Committee? Does this committee have a role to play in monitoring the proceedings of the Board of Directors? Does it not recall that Article 47 of the Cash Act allowed the General Directorate for Financial Policy and the Treasury to challenge agreements of the Board of Directors of the entity that were harmful to its interests? But, above all, ladies and gentlemen, I want to draw attention to a particular relevant fact, because in politics, as in all order of life, it is very important, it is fundamental, to have memory. The very relevant fact about what we want to draw attention is that looting would not have occurred if Mr. Feijóo had not given an "extra" time to the top managers of the old boxes, extra time that they took advantage of, emulating the title of one of Woody Allen's first films, to take the money and run. You see, on December 29, 2009, this Parliament passed a new Cash Act, with the only vote against the Socialist Group, considering it – it is in the papers – an interventionist law. That law was born from an initiative of the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, and that law had a triple intention: to strengthen public oversight over the boxes, to prevent the absorption of our boxes by foreign entities and to force the removal of their former directors. But it turns out on September 28, 2010, less than a year later, it has been reformed, with the only vote against the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, this last aspect, to force the removal of its directors, to allow their continuity in the former Galician and Caixanova Box. Allow me to give textual reading to the reformed text: "For the assumption that before 1 December 2010 the Board of Directors authorized the merger between the German savings banks, for the period of three years since the registration of the new entity in the commercial register, the following shall apply:" – and I insist: I am reading textually – "they may continue in their positions throughout the transitional period those members who form part of the government bodies of the merged entities at the time of granting the merger authorization and enter those of the new entity." Look, the spokesperson for the Galego Nationalist Block in that debate, Mr. Fernando Blanco, stated that this amendment was intended to accept blackmail and subordinate the German Parliament to the interests of certain powers. Well, ladies and gentlemen, now the National Court points out that the convicted have called for a plan to be economically beneficial in the assumption that he will end up without his services. In short, they took advantage of that three-year extension to carry out the looting. The acceptance of some of that blackmail came out to us all very much. But in any case – and I have already concluded – this is not what is now being put to the vote. What is put to the vote is as simple as if this Parliament is against its own annulment as the central institution of our self-government, because it is to annul Parliament by means of a system that creates committees of inquiry, and it is also to cancel Parliament to allow, for a commission of inquiry which is created, it is then kidnapped, and it also flagrantly fails to comply with this House's own agreements. This is the respect which the People's Party of Galicia has for this Parliament, this is the respect it has for democracy itself. For these reasons, we call for support for this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u276	Thank you, Mr. Jorquera. Intervention of parliamentary groups. Joint Group. Mrs. Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u277	Well, speaking of the box process, there would in principle be nothing more to say than to announce my support for this non-law proposition if you could have the slightest hope that the People's Party would be willing to shed light on what happened with the Greek boxes and with the saving of the Greeks and the Greeks. But I can't believe at this point that the People's Party will consent to reopening the investigation commission that they themselves killed with longing. The citizenry has the conviction that the spolie of the saving social entities is not only made from the inside of the boxes. In the early years of the century, they encouraged them to act like banks and to deviate from their genuine ends to those who were born. Soon the solvency measures began to change, but always with greater urgency for the boxes than for the banks. That's why, to find out who stole our Greek savings, you should look for the political leaders of the deliberate flight of the Greek financial system. It is necessary to know why the opportunity to purchase for the Greeks and the Greeks the bank resulting from the defeat of the boxes was left to escape, which, in the first year, as the BNG spokesman said, has already benefited more than what it cost and which will also be paid in comfortable terms. The disappearance of the Welsh boxes and their subsequent banking and privatization at the price of balance deserve, by social justice and by political ethics, a parliamentary investigation that clarifies the success with an institution that the Greeks and the Greeks considered to be something of their own. A direct manager would be the Banco de España, who had commissioned the inspection work. To cover up this spole, the financial statements were filled with accounting traps. The Galician Caixa fusion agreement with Caixanova in 2010, with the good visa of the Galician Union, was based on accounts that did not reflect the real situation. The solution adopted by cash managers was to massively market abusive financial products, such as subordinated obligations and preferential shares, which accounted for as quality capital of the ruined cash accounts, but which trapped consumer savings perpetuity. Beyond specific criminal acts, it is clear that the fact that more than 50 per cent of a country's financial system is broken through falsehoods and abuse of its clients would require a political inquiry from Parliament. This means analysing in depth the causes of this debacle, the failures of regulation, the functioning and role of regulatory bodies, such as the Banco de España and CNMV, and the role of the Union. Newcaxagalicia has become Newgaly Bank, an entity created thanks to the money injected by FROB, something more than 9,000 million euros into liquid money, plus 7 billion more into commodities. Banesco's offer was 1,003 million euros to be made with the entity resulting from the merger. A little over 8,000 million went on to fatten the public deficit, 8,000 million that the People's Party doesn't want to investigate, because the Greeks and the rest of the inhabitants of the Spanish state have to pay for this 8,000 million. In July 2012 the Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's investigation into compensation and pensions charged by senior Novagalicia Banco was opened. The National Audience condemned the former Novacaxagalicia dome for the cases of millionaire compensation; José Luis Pego, Gregorio Gorrián and Oscar Rodríguez Estrada, as authors of a crime of unfair administration, and Julio Fernández Gayoso and Ricardo Pradas, as necessary co-operatives. The penalty for each of them is two years in prison, the refund of the amounts...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u278	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u279	...–I've finished – that they shouldn't charge, and a fine of 75,000 euros and disability to work in the financial sector. The ruling insists that the entity's assets were fraudulently exposed by deliberate violation - and textual law - "the Community and Spanish legislation on remuneration of senior directors, taking into account that the entity was involved by the State through the corresponding contribution of public money." So I think there are arguments left that justify the reopening of this investigation commission, unless the People's Party is messed up and has something to cover up. If they have nothing to cover, they open the investigation commission.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u280	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. Parliamentary Group of the Left Galician Alternative. You have the word of Mr. Anton Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u281	Well, of course, you have something to cover the People's Party; otherwise neither the Commission's paralysis nor the lack of explanations were explained each time you were asked what was going on with the Box Research Committee. Inexplicable, there was no explanation, which Mr Puy explains very well for what he wants, but in this he begins to slow down, to comment vaguely, to talk about AGE and AGE's position in the Commission, but to explain why we have spent almost two years in the presentation phase and without reactivating the Commission, none. Well, we have often repeated a similar debate. For many years in this country there were savings boxes with owners who were – they seemed – of Andalusian cortexs, they did what they wanted, they managed them as they wanted, and those who had responsibilities from the Fairy Council to monitor the use of the savings of the Greeks and how these boxes were used did not. When there were money, when there were boxes, they were invested in the Spanish Levante, the Moroccan Mediterranean, Tunisian, etc., in speculative real estate adventures, without any kind of cutting-edge by successive farm councils. And there was the big hole that turned these yellow boxes into broken before that merger. I am no longer going to read articles of the Law on current cash registers at that time, which said that the Business Council had the obligation and competence to monitor all these types of operations, as well as the preferences, during the years 2009 and 2011, when Caixa Galicia was sanctioned – a little while ago – to sell preferences without giving adequate information to those who bought them. What was the Galician Union doing? What was he doing all these years? It is impossible that in the face of the greatest theft of the history of this country, the scam of the favorites and the scam of saving the Greeks – we had two savings boxes, which could serve as a financing tool for the productive economy, and we have neither boxes nor Welsh; a foreign bank and, still above, putting 9,000 million euros, there are no political responsibilities! For the People's Party seems to want this to happen without political responsibilities. Impossible! Impossible! It is impossible for this to happen without political responsibilities! And that's what the People's Party wants to cover. Of course we want to hide information! Turns out we've been sold that an audit said it was a merger of the boxes, and we've found that it wasn't an audit or a merger of the boxes. It was an accelerated diagnosis, based on and restricted to criteria prefixed by the Galician Union. Specific questions prefixed by the Galician Council in a letter of order which, by chance, disappeared from the documentation that we were brought to that closed room. It just disappeared what the Galician board told the KPMG that it had to study; the information that the Galician board gave to the auditor, to KPMG, and still above the auditor, in the report, was cured in health saying that it did not contradict that information. But that's gone. Also when in the sale process determined by a Mckinsey report, an auditor famous for turning doors, by regular and conducting processes like this one for sale and then Mckinsey's own members end up working for privatized banks, with a long history even of management by friends of José María Aznar. So a private auditor determines the moment, as it is said, of that accelerated investment of Novagalicia Banco, determines the moment. And in the middle of that, with fixed terms of sale, there's a Royal Decree 14/2013, which...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u282	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u283	...expressively says the FROB: "It makes more capitalization of the bank and it benefits the entity, whoever owns it." And it is not changed by FROB, nor is it demanded by the Galician Board, that the terms of sale be changed to this royal decree which expressly recognizes that it favours greater capitalization of the bank and that it benefits the entity. And sell without changing the terms of sale, etc. This is a real shame to explain to the citizen. We're not talking about EUR 300,000, we're not talking about a million euros from an audit that wasn't auditing. We are talking about billions of frauds to citizenship and it is worth transparency, reporting and reopening the Box Research Commission to provide information. And there must be political responsibilities. It's impossible not to. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u284	Thank you very much, Mr. Sanchez. Mr. Losada, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u285	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, in view of the complaint about the people's voice stories, I'm also going to talk about history, but I'm going to start a little before 2004, I'm going to start in 1996. Aznar, Spain goes well, eight years in which Spain went well, where the princesses married in the Escorial and that Mr. Álvarez Cascos said everything, except the protected one, was urbanizable. And he also said that if so many houses were built in this country, it was because there were people who had enough income to buy them. In this conceptual framework of analysis, it is true that historical – in the end, I think it is appropriate sometimes to go back to history – is the development of a financial practice that actually ends in 2008 with a great bluff – never said – financial. Indeed, this morning we watched – at least absolutely surprised, I have to say – not only the blame of the Nationalist Block in Wales for voting an budget at the Congress of Deputies, but also the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party, Lehman Brothers' break and all that was the subprime mortgages in the United States, which shows that we are being held in high international consideration on the right side; that also gives us some satisfaction at some point. We will support the initiative of the Galician Nationalist Block. I remember perfectly – as Proust would say – the search for lost time — I would say in French, but probably there was some snob left. Two and a half years after we were locked there as if we were cartridges, saying appearances, one after the other, at an absolutely demonized rhythm, as if it really had ended the world practically in August. The world hasn't ended in August or 2014 or 2015, we're still here. The Committee on Boxes is still literally cryogenicized, and in 2014, in the debate on the state of Autonomy, the People's Party votes – as Mr. Jorquera said – in favour of continuing with that commission, but it seems that they lost the key to the cryogenicization chamber and failed to open it, so we still have no boxes. It's true that in this time some interesting things have happened in terms of this story. The first one, published recently in the summer of 2015, is the reports that the Banco de España sent to the National Audience when he tried the absolutely scandalous compensations of the executives, who admitted that he did not want the merger and that it was the Junta who did it. We then have this KPMG audit, which was actually a secret. I had to see a low-quality photocopy, and the truth is, with my microcopy, it cost me a lot of work. I was surprised when Mr. Víctor Moro, proposed by the People's Party to attend, had a perfectly colour-printed copy. I recognize that I was Deputy Director of the Banco de España in Barcelona, but it was the only financial advantage I had before me. It's true that he was older than me and I also understand that something easier to read had been made easier for him. Then it was sold to Novagalicia Banco. The Mckinsey report and the report by Banco Nomura disappeared, I suppose in the same flood as the Golden Martial papers there in Coia. I live there and the truth is that it never rained so much – there are more beams here – there was some specific microclimate in that documentation deposit. And then another question that is very relevant to me, especially because I recognize the ingenuity of the Socialist Group when we vote affirmatively on a work plan. We asked for the appearance of the governor of the Banco de España, Miguel Ángel Fernández Ordóñez, who I want to remember was governor from 2006 to 2012, who probably made many mistakes, who said he would come to appear in September, but in July we did not let him come because there was too much hurry to finish the commission; and, of course, Mr. Jaime Caruana's appearance, who was governor of the Banco de España from 2000 to 2006, at a time when there was certainly no kind of housing and financial bubble, we all know it in this country; nor of course, did Mr. Louis María Linde, governor of the Banco de España from June 2012 and who is, indeed, a sort of spokesman minister of the People's Party governments. I believe that it strengthens the economic policy of the People's Party more when it does its interventions than the vice president of the Spanish Government himself. These are topics that are above the table that I think it is necessary to address. Not to mention the sale process, absolutely inexplicable in financial terms, of an entity that earns the first year more benefits than it has to pay in four years by the entity itself. I know it sounds ridiculous, and I understand that I'm taking the joke to the limit, but we could almost buy it...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u286	Finish, please, Mr. Losada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u287	...anyone of us. I'm sure with this prospect of benefits we would get credits from any of us. I insist: a billion euros to pay until 2018 and the first year 900 million euros of benefit. The second, 150 in the first few months. By the way...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u288	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u289	...they do not advance funds to FROB – i.e., public money they received – because in theory it is money to strengthen the entity. And then they're still allowed to say they're in a dynamic purchase of other financial assets.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u290	Thank you very much, Mr. Losada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u291	Finished, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u292	No, it's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u293	The only relevant data is that Abanca's profit-capital ratio is five times the average of its size financial institutions in Spain. I think that investigation commission should be opened.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u294	People's Parliamentary Group. Mr. Trenor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u295	Thank you, President. The Committee on Research to analyse and evaluate the economic and financial developments of the old savings banks and the causes and responsibilities of their current situation, including the millions of compensation from their former directors, is not closed. You insist that it's closed, we logically say no, and nothing further than reality. It shows that it's not closed. We've recently known a judgment for the trial of ex-executives of savings boxes for crimes of unfair administration, misappropriation and fraud. This judgment, which is also interesting, timely and revealing, was incorporated at the request of the chairman of the commission as a study documentation. The commission has two main objectives. On the one hand, it analyses and evaluates the economic and financial developments of the old savings banks; and it also has another objective, which is to analyze the millionaire compensations of its former directors. The judgment regarding the handling of the boxes confirms as proved the unsolicited situation of the two boxes separately. We already knew this from the conclusions and the study of the 45 appearances, and from the study of the more than 30,000 sheets of documents. Mr. Sánchez, you have had some interesting contribution, especially as regards the increase in the credit to the brick, the rate of expansion of the entities, the deterioration of the ratios between 2004 and 2009, what happens is that maybe these contributions should be made by you to the commission, if your situation allows it. - He's twitching. [[Murmurs.]] It must be very fun!— This is also confirmed by the sentence, which also literally says that cash imbalances made it impossible for them to function alone. But look, Mr. Losada, after this I have just said – we can also recreate this data that I have just commented on – are you not going to assume any kind of responsibility at all at all?, not in the growth of unemployment or of evictions or even in the situation of savings boxes, of what happened with savings boxes between 2004 and 2009? Well, it seems not, it seems not, that they don't take it. [[Applause]] As I told you, the other objective of the Commission, perhaps the most difficult part to know, was the compensation of its directors, because we did not have enough information on this, since both the Bank of Spain and the entity themselves refused to provide this information and the managers refused to clarify these aspects when they found themselves under trial. But what we were denied was not able to deny to the judge, and surprisingly, ladies and gentlemen, the only thing that was concerned about providing this information to the committee was my group, in particular Mr Santalices, who asked that this ruling on management behaviour be available to Members to be studied. Now, and thanks to Mr. Santalices, the members of the committee know that the managers were convicted for self-conceived compensation million minutes before the rescue of the entities, inflicting a breakdown on the box of more than 18 million euros. Mr. Jorquera, "Take the money and run" wasn't one of the first films, it was Mr. Woody Allen's first film. And I want to tell you that, in addition, Mr. President was the first one to oppose these compensations and that's what he asked the Bank of Spain to leave them without effect, while others, gentlemen... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u296	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u297	...they were manifesting and presenting motions to support the excellent and brilliant management of these managers. But look, not only do these managers condemn themselves for wage greed, but, besides, and far from considering it to be a simple mismanagement, there is the intention of camouflaging and makeup the unsustainable situation. Those managers by which you manifested themselves led the box to a disastrous situation as a result of the losses masked in your accountancy by overvaluing those assets. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u298	Thank you, Mr. Trenor. Group author of the non-law proposal. Mr. Jorquera of the Galician Nationalist Block has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u299	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Trenor, really, I give you advice – believe me – with all affection, with all affection. When the Popular Group at your group meetings assigns you to set position on a topic because it means eating a brown one, you refuse. Look, the demonstration of the respect the People's Group has for this Commission is that in the debate on this initiative none of the speakers who took part in the debates in the Box Research Commission, or in the 3rd Commission, have participated in the debate on this issue multiple times. That's the main demonstration. [[Applause]] We are told that the Commission is not closed – it is the argument that the argument is the aupa – that this commission is not closed because all members of the Commission can consult the documentation that the BNG has provided to the Commission on the practices of the machining of former directors and that it has contributed more than a year ago, and now because the judgement of the National Court can be consulted. It's not closed for that. Hey! If this Parliament unanimously adopted the conclusions by the end of last year that had to be completed, say it! But how can you use that argument! Then you can say what you want. The fact is that the law has been amended to grant an extension to the former directors. The change was September 2010. The Caixanova Compensation Commission, on 18 October 2010, approves the change in the remuneration and compensation scheme. Galician box, on that same day, agrees to match its payroll scheme with that of Caixanova. Integration takes place on December 1. Integration will mean they leave their office to those people who used that extension before to shield their contracts. The temporal sequence speaks for itself. And I want to finish by saying that I appreciate the support of the opposition groups, of course: the Socialist Group, the Gaga de Left Alternative Group and the Mixed Group. And I want to mention, for a moment, the words expressed by Mrs. Consuelo Martínez, saying that we have the same lack of confidence that you expressed in the real will of the People's Group not to condemn this commission to starvation. We have the same lack of confidence, because the facts speak for themselves. What's going on? That, with the introduction of this initiative, at least we want to raise in this House the debate that the People's Party wants to steal by keeping this committee kidnapped. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u300	Thank you, Mr. Jorquera. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da María Carmen Gallego Calvar and three other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in relation to the network of children's schools managed through the Galego Consortium of Wellness
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u301	This motion for a non-law amendment by the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block of Wales was tabled.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u302	You have the floor to formulate the non-law proposition to Mrs Gallego Calvar.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u303	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. We are going to repeat a debate here today which we have had very little time in Commission 5a, but the Socialist Group thought it would be good to have this debate again, to see if the Government, in the middle of the Commission 5a and we have the plenary, because it has changed its attitude, given what is going on every day in the media. We're going to talk about the network of children's schools that the Galician Union has, which manages the Galician Union, better said, through the Galician Consortium of Wellness, a network of children's schools that in many cases were built by the municipalities, with funds from the municipalities themselves, who have transferred their management to this Galician Consortium of Wellness, and in other cases were made by Galician Union itself. A network of children's schools that has staff that is mostly interim and mostly female, and that has been developing their activity on many occasions by exceeding the ratios established according to the number of students and students for both teaching staff and non-teachers. A network of children's schools that should, in theory, be able to manage the new Galician Social Services Agency as of January 2016, something that today is unable to assert neither the Government of Galicia itself, as are green things as to this transition from this management. And a network of little schools where the cuts also came in, and the cuts not only at the budget level, but also cuts in personal caretakers, cuts in the care of children and children with functional diversity, cuts in the teaching board, cuts in the interim staff, closing of schools – some of them recently made – and, of course, more waiting lists. And adjusted all this with a policy that Mr. Feijóo's government is making, in which it ceases to build these essential services in rural areas to promote co-responsibility, to facilitate the reconciliation of personal and labor life, and it begins to talk about other issues such as checks, bonuses, etc., that what they clearly want is to replace a public service with a fine rain that comes very well on the eve of the election. Well, in recent years all these cuts that have occurred have been made the truth is that in fact absolutely syslin, partly because most of the children's schools have no association of mothers and parents, something that is not being promoted from the Social Policy Council, and in part because, when they are amortizing or destroying jobs, what you do is go doing in pieces, to avoid that, because to avoid having to lead you to collective bargaining, to avoid having to negotiate with the union centers. There's also a problem with the school eaters in these children's schools. There are few dates we have received Members and Members who are part of the Commission 5a an ANPA – in this case there is an ANPA – from a childhood school, "The Pitaño Year", in Vilagaría de Arousa, which reported not only deficiencies in support staff, the caregiver staff, but also deficiencies in food that are given to children and children, deficiencies in the quality of food that is given to children and children, and of course the absolute absence of inspections, both from the point of view of health and from the point of view of the Council of Social Policy itself. It's true that it doesn't happen as high as in the schools of the College of Education and Universitary ordination. But it is also true that in the Galician network of children's schools managed by the Consortium, as well as in the centres of older, residents, etc., there are also problems with the quality of food, derived precisely from this management through competitions with lows or very low budgets, which prevent in practice there from being a good quality of food used in these infantry schools. Well, what the Socialist Parliamentary Group is asking for today is very simple. Of course, the People's Party and the People's Parliamentary Group have repeatedly been saying here – in Commission 5 we have heard in virtually all of them – that we have already reached the European ratio in our country's children's schools, well, something radically false. We don't even have the state ratio as far as childhood schools are concerned, do we? And what we're asking for on this initiative is that if the staff of these children's schools increase to reach the average staff/student ratio in the whole state over the next three years. And this, as much as you say, is not achieved. And we're asking for something that goes in the DNA of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, which is that these children's schools are transferred to the College of Education and Universitary ordination. We believe that children's schools have to be part of the education cycle. We believe that in children's schools we must form, we must educate children and children, and we believe that, by moving children's schools to the Council of Culture, Education and Universitary Order, we also universalize the system, because I don't know whether they know it, ladies and gentlemen, but today, in what there are waiting lists because there are many parents and mothers who don't have a place to take their children and children to children's schools, the priority that the Social Policy Council takes to access these places is dependent on whether the progenitors are working, and if they are not working, whether they are unemployed, even though they need free time to find jobs or to train themselves to have access to a job, this is not a priority for the Government of Wales. So access to children's schools in our country today is not universal. One, because there are no squares; and another, because if you're avoiding the possibility of unemployed parents and mothers accessing and prioritising those who access the parents and mothers who are working. And then there's a second brake -- let's say -- for access to the squares of these children's schools. I understand that the subject is exciting, but the truth is there are many parents and mothers who are worried because when they're going to work or when they're going to look for work because they don't have to leave their children and their daughters, and they would also like to leave them in a place where they've been given good quality care and good quality in their education, which is what we socialists ask for. Look, of the 61 children's schools that have been in operation since Mr Feijóo's rule, only 7 – I insist –, only 7 out of 61 were planned, projected and built by the People's Party in the Government of Galicia. The rest were projected, initiated, planned and budgeted by the previous Government. And for next year, a year in which the Government of Feijóo talks about an expanding budget, that the lost rights will be recovered, that more will be given to families, it is only contemplated the construction of 6 new infantry schools, when, for example, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group we have presented at least the need to build 20 others, and we do not do it for whims, because there is a need for squares and that service in rural areas. Because look, you talk a lot about your concern about the demographic problem Galicia has. The demographic problem with Galicia is solved by three priority policies: a higher rate of female occupation, higher public services in rural areas, and the wager for recovering the talent that has gone to emigration. These three policies that you are not doing, including public services in rural areas. And in order to create public services in rural areas, it's not worth checks and thin rain, we have to create services, and services have to be public, and for that, among them, one is children's schools.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u304	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u305	And then there's one last question I'd like to say – I'm finished, Madam President – that makes it difficult for children and children to have access to children's schools, and that's the price, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party. The price that was in force until there were few dates for access to children's schools was the price since 2002, and you made a rule to increase the cost of access to children's schools brutally, so brutally that attendance, which used to be at 110 euros monthly, is now at 160; the dining room, which used to be at 33 euros monthly, is now at 70; so brutally now people who charge 50 percent of the IPREM pay 16.50 euros per dining room; that is, a person who has income in the month of 266 euros already starts paying in this case...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u306	Finish, please, Mrs. Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u307	...16.50 euros with the included dining room. This is another one of the obstacles you're putting on the Greek families so your children and children can have access to these little schools. I hope the opposition groups vote in favour and I hope it will take place today...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u308	Thank you very much, Mrs Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u309	...a miracle by the People's Parliamentary Group and which also support this initiative. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u310	Intervention of parliamentary groups. Group of the Galician Nationalist Block. Mr. Pombo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u311	Good afternoon, ladies. Mrs Gallego, of course the BNG Parliamentary Group shares with you, firstly, the need to integrate within the Council of Culture, Education and Universitary Order policies and competences on children's schools, and, secondly, the need to increase the staff of children's schools throughout Galicia, to ensure quality education in the public system. BNG has already presented a number of initiatives on this particular, because we understand that child education is a basic and fundamental educational stage, since it builds the first knowledge and brings about subsequent acquisitions and knowledge. For us childhood education must of course be a basic pillar in the learning and future development of our youth. For the BNG, of course, all childhood education should be considered as an integral part of the education system as compulsory since the age of 3 and with the same coverage in quality and complementary services as the rest of the stages. BNG also understands that services dedicated to care for children under the age of 3 must be done to respect the need and right of children themselves to develop in rich contexts in which to socialize. As I've already told you, coincidentally with the non-law proposal, we have tabled an amendment which we understand can help improve this teaching from 0 to 3 years. First of all, so that you can recover the educational couple, with the expansion of jobs, which is proposed in this own non-legislative proposal. It's a BNG claim, but it's also a claim of more than 3,050 people who signed a few days ago, that here in this Parliament they handed over to all groups a claim that they wanted to paralyze the amortizations announced by the council itself, stop the cuts and deterioration in the child education of public infant schools, and demand a correction in the policy of cutting and the return to the network of Galician schools of quality and identity for which most of them were created. They called for the educational couple's bet, because they understood it's a quality of the system itself. Secondly, we in our amendment also want to be able to offer school posts, for at least 30% of children from 0-3 years old from the public education system, through appropriate planning, both in urban and rural areas. In our amendment, too, we intend that the Single Collective Convention for the Workers of the Union can be applied to the staff of the Consortium, because quality education should also be subject to quality working conditions, and of course not to discriminate against the staff themselves, who are claiming to be able to enjoy this single agreement. We present these amendments with the idea of improving a fundamental service, so that they are accepted if they consider it, because we understand that, of course, the Greek society needs these services to contribute to a better pedagogical work and more to contribute to the reconciliation of working and family times and even to ensure the territorial balance of Galicia. With these objectives, these schools were created, and a quality public network was created, based on quality educational spaces, attention to professionals, the quality of language use and the quality of staff training, and even in a quality network when trying to link education 0-3 to the more advanced pedagogical thinking. Well, just when it was necessary to expand the squares, expand the supply and improve it, just at that moment, it's when the continuous cutting policies are produced, that all they do is damage a teaching...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u312	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u313	...–end, president– public educational child. So we know that in this course there were more than 3,000 plazas on the waiting list for not having enough squares. Nothing else. I'm done waiting for them to accept our amendment, and, in any case, tell him we share what is proposed in this non-law proposal. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u314	Thank you, Mr. Pombo. Joint Group. Mrs. Churches.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u315	Thank you, President. During the legislation of the Bipartite and at the beginning of the Government of Mr Feijóo, many Galician municipalities were endowed with social services, including day centres for older people, children's schools for the most children, from 3 months of age, which is about when the maternity permit ends, through the Galician Consortium of Equality and Welfare Services, a measure that I have seen as a great step forward in working, family and personal reconciliation and in improving the growth of birth, something very necessary in a country with a serious demographic problem as is ours. This entity – the Consortium – which had already been severely attacked by the People's Party when it was in opposition, sees its dissolution approved to be integrated into the new Social Services Agency, soon to regain the power of the People's Party with the Government of Mr. Feijóo. One of the negative effects of this measure is the unilateral imposition of a rise in municipal approaches. Nearly at the beginning of this course the municipalities receive a circular where they are warned of the liquidation of the conventions to manage these schools through the Consortium. The document includes the obligation to pay a unilaterally fixed count, which in some cases reaches up to 600,000 euros. A new model – the one in the Join – that means a new crop in the application of a uniform cannon. This is unacceptable, unacceptable to the municipalities, which are forced to pay for services that are autonomous competence, when so far the municipalities have negotiated agreements between the parties, which generally imply that the municipalities approach the infrastructure and assume maintenance, according to the cases, and sometimes the staff. These centres and conventions for their operation and maintenance have never been of the popular party's liking. During Mr. Alberto's government, only seven 61-year-old infantry schools have been built up since 2009, and today they are being dismantled; many of them have already been closed, and those who survive do so with cuts in staff and budgets. Those who suffer the consequences are users, often for 3 months, and also their families, because children are not receiving the optimal attention that guarantees them the law and that the Board, through the competent organs, must apply. In Lalín, for example, 3 teachers, 1 teacher and 1 educator are eliminated at the center of child education of the polygon, and 1 educator at Pontinas. In Vilagarcia they delete 2 from the squares of which I have come to have since its opening, and also 1 from a teacher, who has never been covered. In Compostela, according to the report of the Labour Commissions, the abandonment of the children's schools in Vite and Santa Susana is alarming; in Vite there is no coverage of work casualties, lacks support staff that sets the current legislation in Decree 329/2005, despite being a centre with expanded hours, which offers breakfasts and meals; and the school in Santa Susana has severely damaged facilities, works without direction since 15 October, which increases the work and functions of the staff, as well as labour stress, and decreases the quality of care.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u316	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u317	For all of this, and because I believe that education at this stage of life is fundamental for an optimal development in the rest of the educational stages of all, I support this motion of the PSdEG-PSOE. Thank you, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u318	Thank you, Mrs Iglesias. Mr Fajardo Recouso has the floor for the Parliamentary Group on Alternative Glaga de Left.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u319	Good afternoon, everyone. From the AGE Parliamentary Group we will support today's Socialist Party initiative, because we are in front of these facts that show that reality exceeds the speeches of the People's Party. Not long ago, the Social Policy Adviser appeared in this House to say his commitment to birth, even saying that he wanted Galicia to be a nice place or good place to have children. You have children, which later we've taken care of that they can't be attended to in childhood schools, because that's what's behind this initiative. What's behind it is a reality of cutting personnel in children's schools, which is deteriorating their quality and hindering internal organization and also the attention of the children and children of these schools. And that's right, in addition, because you're using a model that's absolutely perverse, and I'm going to put one of the examples why you're perverse. The People's Party, who comes to this House to say that it makes many new infantry schools, accepts an agreement with the Amancio Ortega Foundation to make the buildings, but it turns out that the teachers, the workers, come to account for the Council. And what does the Council do? Well, instead of creating new squares and new workers for these centers, what it does is eliminate others to move to these new centers that are done for the benefit of Mr. Amancio Ortega, which should be done is to pay the taxes that correspond to them, so that only with their taxes can we have a network of children's schools that met 100% of the demand. But in addition, the decisions taken by the Government are absolutely anti-pedagogical, and we are converting children's schools, which must give a quality, also an education, and – why not? – also a training, in real children's stables, eliminating that principle that infant schools were intended not to be a place to accumulate children to facilitate conciliation, but rather a place of training, socialization and – why not also? – of education for our children and children under 3 years of age. All of this is eliminated by the decision that the People's Party has made to eliminate, for example, the educational couple. The educational couple is fundamental in these centers, because in many cases it means that, without an educational couple, it is not possible to care for children, but above all it is not possible to give this educational model that allows small groups to care more and better for each child in these children's schools. That's why we have to thank you for the work you've done by some ANPA of children's schools, such as the ANPA of the "Pitaño Year", of the Carril Children's School – which is not of Vilagarcia, which is of Carril's, it is not of Vilagarcia – that they have denounced a reality, and is that the People's Party and Councillory abuse the cuts in these centers, simply because most of them don't have ANPA, and they don't have ANPA because very few children are three years in those centers and therefore many of the countries are hard to organize themselves to claim that their centres have sufficient quality. And it has been said here, but it must be denounced: taking advantage of this situation, and also that most of the teachers and educators of these centers are interim, where a mechanism is applied by which that moving teacher does not go out in the picture, are doing things of real barbarity, as is the lack of quality of the menus of these children's schools. Situations that have been reported in this childhood school in Carril and in many others show that what happened a few days ago in the entire school-breakers in this country also happens in our children's schools, with more seriousness, with more seriousness. A dramatic example of what you were talking about, for example, at Carril's childhood school was the size of the portions that were given to children who started to eat, where not only do we already have a health risk, but a risk of hijacking, and therefore it is necessary to involve in the improvement of the ratios of teachers and educators for each of the children's schools. That is why, in that sense, we are going to support this initiative, which, moreover, has the backing of more than 3,400 signatures, but also because it is fair. It's not worth promising children's cheques of 200 euros each month, or 120 euros every month, if then in services that are really necessary like this to allow reconciliation what you do is to cut and eliminate citizenship rights, as is the right that we should have all and all that our children have to attend to in childhood schools. By the way, Madam President, as you draw my attention to me, I should have called attention, because it's very difficult to talk to that rumor that was in the background. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u320	Thank you very much, Mr. Fajardo. People's Group. Mrs. Rodríguez Arias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u321	Thank you, Madam President. The truth is it's surprising, but it happens full after full. Mr Ortega is more present in this Parliament than Mr Beiras. For something it will be, for something it will be. [[Applause]] The initiative presented by the Socialists' Parliamentary Group has already been discussed in Commission 5th, indeed Mrs Gallego. You call for the progressive increase in the staff of children's schools to reach the average staff/student ratio in the state group in the next three months ; sorry, three years. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] We'd like to know what ratio you mean in particular, if you refer to the personal/a student ratio that you have to meet the Children's Schools of the Consortium, if you refer to the personal/a student ratio set out in Decree 329/2005, so you regulate the juvenile centers and the child care centers. Do you refer to that personal/a student ratio?, do you mean what is established in this decree? Because, look, of that decree, all child schools fulfill their personal/a student ratios for all and every child school in our community. In addition to meeting this ratio, most infant schools not only fulfill it, but educational workers double what this own decree requires. Other autonomous communities are spoken of. We can put some example of the ratios in Galicia and the ratios in other autonomous communities that are practically the same; without "practically", they are the same as those in Galicia, that of Andalusia, that of Aragon, that of Madrid, that of Valencia, that of Rioja, and you can check it out. It seems that the increase in squares in children's schools was a fruit of the Socialist Party's work. The ones that keep opening and the ones that are in construction, too, are curious. But, well, what the German People's Party Government has done was to increase public squares in children's schools in the Blue Helmet, specifically at 71% in the last five years. Indeed, Mrs. Gallego, you are wrong when you say the ratio is not met. It is that we assume that the European ratio is first met. Look, the European ratio is first and lasts for the first time in Galicia with the increase of 71% of public squares in children's schools, an increase of more than 12 points compared to 2009. You know, of the 71% more public squares, namely 3,864, whether they were all placed on the agenda by the Socialist Group or whether the Galician Union and the municipalities did something after you. The truth is, after you, there is life. The People's Party from Galicia has launched 3,864 new children's schools. By the way, 14 new infant schools are in progress, in different stages of construction, yes, which are added to the existing 159. [[Applause]] Squares, pardons, squares, squares. [[Murmurs.]] In relation to children's schools, in 2009, Mr. Fajardo, in the consortium's children's schools had a total of 674 employees for 83 children's schools. In 2015, we have 991 employees for 123 infant schools, we're talking about a 49% increase in child school staff. In 2009, staff expenditure in children's schools was EUR 15.1 million; in 2015, staff expenditure in children's schools was EUR 21.4 million, an increase of 42%. You assure me again and again that it is necessary to transfer the competences of children's schools to the Education Council. More like that, they say it goes to the Socialist Party's DNA. So look, you tell us what kind of DNA the Socialist Party has, because if you went in your DNA for four years, they weren't able to take away the skills of children's schools from the Galician Nationalist Block, and now they want the People's Party to have the competences of the Education Council. Look, I'll explain something to you. They used to be split into two plots. The BNG had children's education from 0 to 3 years old, and the Socialist Party had children's education from 3 years old. Now, the Education Council and the Social Policy Council are on the same plot, in the Galician Union, which is where the children's childhood schools from 0 to 3 years old have to be. So, Mrs. Gallego, more public squares of children's schools – ended, president – more staff in children's schools and more budgets for children's schools. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u322	Group author of the non-law proposal. You have the floor to Mrs. Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u323	Thank you very much, Madam President. I thank the groups for their support for the initiative, and I tell the Group of the Galician Nationalist Block that we are going to accept the addition amendments and not the substitution amendments, but we are grateful that they vote in favour of this initiative. And I'm going to clarify some concepts to Mrs. Rodríguez Arias. First, in our initiative we talk about the personal/a student ratio, we don't talk about the ratio of public squares. So, you can perform in public squares, but what you don't do is in person the average state, Mrs. Rodríguez Arias. Look a little bit from time to time at Asturias, which can give us many examples of social policy. Perhaps they would have looked at you from time to time a little bit towards Asturias, for we learned something in Galicia. Look, it comes with the same story as the one with the dependency. There's more staff spending today. There's more public squares. There's more staff today. Of course, if they were opened, since Mr Feijóo's rule, 61 schools – of which, I insist, 54 were already in planning, in budgets, in projects and in the construction of the previous Government – because of course there has to be greater expenditure on staff and more public squares and more children's schools. Of course there are, but, Mrs. Rodríguez Arias, that doesn't mean he's doing his job. Look, we're talking about the educational couple, but we're not talking about the Socialist Parliamentary Group of the educational couple, so are you. Because, as I know, the Galego Consortium of Wellness is managing it right now – by the way, newly appointed – the former mayor of Ponte Caldelas. And on the website of that Galego Welfare Consortium that promotes, advertises and encourages an educational couple, that is, two educators per class, is the Galego Welfare Consortium. Are you meeting the educational couple, Mrs. Rodríguez Arias, in childhood schools? Isn't that true? Look, you guys, with the children's schools, all they did was finish what was already done, do much less than it was necessary to do, change the name of the children's schools for political revenge. And by the year 2016, as the Social Policy Advisor himself acknowledged, there will only be six childhood schools, when there is a much higher demand. That's right, what you're going to do is, taking advantage of what we're doing in the electoral year, in autonomous elections, to do that of the thin rain that the Fraga Government practiced so much, spreading Czechs through the countryside, instead of doing what is their obligation as government if they really want to fight against depopulation, demographic cleansing, and if they really want to put on public services in rural areas. So what you're denying here today, once again, is that the personal ratio/student or student...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u324	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u325	...to match the state average – we're not talking about squares, we're talking about staff/a student or student – and to transfer these schools to the Education Council. You don't know what educational project they have. Of course, socialists in the area of education policy...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u326	Thank you very much, Mrs Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u327	...elections from the People's Party, none. Nothing else and thank you very much. [[Applause]] G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. Popular of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr. Miguel Ángel Tellado Filgueira and seven other Members, on the performances to be carried out by the Junta de Galicia so that the Holy Week continues to be an engine of the tourist promotion of Ferrolterra, and of all Galicia, as an expression of popular culture, religious beliefs and the traditions of Ferrol
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u328	This motion for a non-law has been tabled amendments by the Parliamentary Group of the Glaga Alternative of the Left and the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u329	You have the floor, to formulate the non-law proposition, Mr. Tellado, of the People's Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u330	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon to all again. The Holy Week of Ferrol obtained in 2014 the declaration of celebration of international tourist interest, as a recognition of the evolution experienced by this tradition of deep roots in the culture of the whole region of Ferrolterra and by the relief achieved in the national landscape and also in the international level. The declaration as a celebration of international tourist interest was a joint achievement of the work done by the Coordinator of Conferences of the Holy Railway Week, the Council of Ferrol, and also by the Provincial Deputies of the Crown, who knew how to join their forces in achieving this goal. The achievement of this international distinction was therefore a recognition, but not for the institutions that processed it, but, above all, for the thousands of ferrolans that year after year, and for centuries now, they have been making anonymous and selfless efforts to get every Holy Week out into the street around thirty processional parades and to get to the Sunday of Resurrection saying that this Holy Week was better than the previous one. There are more than 3,000 of the confreres, Mr. Losada, who year after year leave the street to process the images they worship from the five confrereries that make up the Holy Week: Confrerer of the Dores, Confrerer of Our Lady of the Angusts, Confrer of the Third Order, Confrer of the Holy Land and Merced confrerer. His joint work, his coordinated work, allowed our Holy Week to reach the declaration of national tourist interest in 1995. The effort to overcome, the well done and continued work, has allowed to continue to advance and achieve the international declaration in 2014. The Holy Week of Ferrol is part of the identity of our city, of our cultural heritage, of our heritage, we must also say, religious, of our sentimental heritage. Nothing has to do with frankness, as has been stated by some group of this House in previous debates. It is clear, therefore, that the Holy Railway Week has an eminently religious and cultural aspect, but it has also become a first-order tourist claim. Something they couldn't say or imagine their precursors in the middle of the 16th century, the date on which the beginning of this tradition is believed. On those dates in Ferrol the first processions as religious expressions of faith, which after centuries would give way to the tradition of the modern Holy Week that we know today. It was in 1943 when the Confracy of the Pains will bring about this final change on the Holy Week of Ferrol. In that year, in the Caladinos Procession, eight confrere members came out covered with hood and habit, are the first caps of the Holy Week ferrolá and mark the beginning of the modern Holy Week, driven decisively by people like Demetrius Casares, one of the most relevant names of the Holy Week of the city of Ferrol. Since then, and in a very special way in recent decades, the Holy Week of Ferrol has experienced enormous growth thanks to the joint work of the Holy Week Brotherhood Coordinator, chaired since its foundation and until September 2014 by Maria del Carmen Arcos, and, from that day until today, by César Carreño. The last edition of the Holy Week in Ferrol, held in 2015, marked a historical milestone as to visitors and also on the quality of the processional parades and the developed program. According to the estimate of the organizers themselves, during the Holy Week of 2015 around 300,000 people visited Ferrol and its entire territory. In those days the hospitality and hotel occupation reached a hundred percent, not only in Ferrol but in the whole of the three districts of Ferrolterra, Eume and Ortegal, and they were fully satisfied and met the expectations of the hosts and traders. Given the importance achieved by the Holy Week of Ferrol in recent years and given the potentials it has as a tourist claim for Ferrolterra and for the Galician group, in the People's Group we are obliged to present this initiative. I say "we are obliged" because we do so in the face of the contradictory demonstrations made by the new mayor of Ferrol, who repeatedly threatens that the new municipal government intends to eliminate the subsidies of the Holy Week. It was the mayor himself, Jorge Suárez, even before taking possession of the position of mayor, who warned that his government would not support Holy Week in the next edition. Subsequently, and due to citizen pressure, he was forced to retreat from his initial position, and ten days ago we knew his last intention – not to agree – to cut more than 50% of the municipal contribution to Ferrol's Holy Week, as a tourist engine of a whole region. With our initiative, with the initiative that we bring to this plenary today, we demand that public administrations maintain the same level of economic collaboration with Holy Week as this year 2015. We're not asking anymore, we're not asking a mayor who doesn't want to participate in the processions to do it. We simply ask for the same level of collaboration as in recent years. We call on each administration to maintain the same status as it did in the previous years. In other words, we ask the Council of Ferrol to maintain the municipal subsidy of EUR 75,000 for the organisation of the parades, we ask the Council of Galicia to maintain the autonomous contribution of EUR 40,000 for the tourist promotion of the Holy Week; tourist promotion, non-transmission of processions on the Galician Television, because those EUR 40,000 that the Union of Galicia makes available to the Council of Ferrol, and that this year it would be willing to make even available to the confrereries themselves, are for promotion in the media, in which the current municipal government determines. Therefore, the agreement says nothing of where to promote Holy Week, simply gives freedom for the holder of the convention, in this case the Ferrol Council, or, if the council wishes, the confrerery itself, the confrereries themselves, to decide where to make that tourist promotion. We ask that the Provincial Parliament also maintain its collaboration in publishing promotional material, as it has been doing in recent editions. Today we have already heard the Galician Union and the Provincial Deputy of the Coruña announce that they will maintain support, the same as in the previous year. That's why we want to thank the Galaga Agency for Tourism, and also thank the Provincial Deputation of the Crown and its President for maintaining support for Holy Week. That's why it's only left that the municipal government is putting forward this attitude that has been manifesting in recent weeks against Holy Week. That's why we are presenting this initiative, which collects the feeling of most of the citizenship of our region. We believe that the economic return of the Holy Week is enormous, it is a cultural expression of a magnitude that well deserves the support of all administrations, as it has been done for many years; administrations that have always been behind the Holy Week, had ruled those who had ruled the Council of Galicia, and had ruled those who had ruled the Council of Ferrol. If we don't fix it, this will be the first time a municipal government doesn't support the Holy Ferrol Week, and we believe it's a serious mistake that, of course, we don't want to share. He supported the municipal government of Mayor Juan Blanco, supported the government of Xaime Bello, the nationalist mayor of Ferrol, and not only supported as mayor of Ferrol but also supported as vice president of the Provincial Deputy of Coruña. And that support served to obtain the recognition of the medal, the golden badge of the Holy Week Brotherhood Coordinator, a golden badge that nationalist Xaime Bello holds. After Xaime Bello, he also supported the mayor of the Juan Juncal People's Party, with outstanding support from the Socialist Mayor Vicente Irisarri, who increased the grant from 40,000 to 70,000 euros during his term of office; and he supported, of course, the Mayor José Manuel Rey, who helped the Coordinator of the Conferences to obtain the declaration of international tourist interest. Now what we're asking is that the current municipal government maintain the same level of collaboration as the previous governments did. We ask that the Junta commit itself – she said yes – and we ask for and thank the commitment of the Provincial Deputies of the Crown and its President – who has already said yes – and we ask the mayor of Ferrol to do the same. And that is why we are presenting this initiative, which says in its resolution: "The Galician Parliament agrees to express the need for all administrations, particularly Galician Union and Ferrol Council, to maintain the support of editions prior to the Holy Railway Week so that it will continue to be a tourist promotion engine of Ferrolterra and throughout Galicia, as an expression of popular culture, religious beliefs and Ferrol's own traditions." Waiting to count on the support of all groups, nothing more and many thanks.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u331	Thank you very much, Mr. Tellado. Intervention of parliamentary groups. For the Alternative Left Galicia has the floor to Mrs. Díaz Pérez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u332	Good afternoon. Mr. Tellado, I have to start by telling you that, in fact, it is quite sad that the first initiative that you bring into this Chamber... If you'll let me talk, Madam President... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u333	Mrs. Díaz, please focus on your intervention.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u334	The difference is that I'm talking, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u335	Well, keep talking.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u336	Mr. Tellado, I was telling you that this is the first initiative you've ever brought about in the district of Ferrolterra, the first one. And the first initiative that it brings is to bring about partisan and political profitability, with a theme, Mr. Tellado, which is an absolute frivolity in the times that run in the district of Ferrolterra.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u337	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u338	I'd like you to bring here, for example, the claims of the naval sector, which will come out on Thursday...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u339	Mr. Tellado, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u340	...the streets of Ferrolterra in demand of workload. That's what you don't come here to talk about. He's here to talk about the Holy Ferrolá Week, which, as everyone knows, are very worried about what happens to Ferrol. Having said that, Mr. Tellado, we are aware, absolutely aware – and I will read you some small part of the plenary debate, which has already taken this same initiative with the same wording to the last plenary session of the Ferrol Council, of what one of the government concellors said, His Basarrechea –... Mr. Tellado, look, we are not blind, as His Basarrechea told him in that full to the voices of the People's Party. We know perfectly well, Mr Tellado, that the Holy Railway Week is not important because of what you said in this House, it is important, indeed, because there are 300,000 people who visit that area. It's important because there's economic dynamism, what we lack throughout the rest of the year, that economic dynamism of what you here never talk about, Mr. Tellado, that's what you don't talk about. Indeed, we can agree with you that it is relevant, if you want, in tourism terms, Mr Tellado. But, look, Mr. Tellado, we are deeply indignant at what you are doing with this initiative, outraged for two reasons. The first, because you know that in this plenary debate the municipal government has committed itself to keeping the civil part of the Holy Week – yes, Mr Tellado, I have here the plenary record, the plenary record. And secondly, Mr. Tellado, outraged because it is a debate that there is no way to substance with the People's Party, there is no way, in a society that is not true that it is, as our constitutional text says, aconfessional, but that we are faced with a society in which there are absolutely unwarranted privileges for the Catholic Church, privileges with the concordance, with all tax resources, privileges in the agreement with which it has to do with religion, privileges with all the taxes of the Church of this country. But look, Mr. Tellado, I well remember the bronca that you mounted when, with decency, we were able to remove the pregon of Holy Week from the Jofre theater, because even in that you made the ridiculous by opposing what we then really defended, with a great deal of decency, from something substantial that is to understand rationality and is to distance what is the State from what is religion. And by this we don't mean that we don't respect people who are believers, of course we respect them. But you also have to respect that when you rule a mayor with a bias, whatever it is, determined – in this left-wing case – you have to let us practice our policies. You said a truth, you almost put us green because we don't attend processions. The only mayors who attended the processions...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u341	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u342	...they were the right-wings and a nationalist mayor. I think it's a joke that people who aren't believers participate in these processions. And the only thing we're telling you -- and I'm done, Madam President -- is that if you -- and say it ironically in our amendment -- are so worried about that confession, they're gonna cover it with their resources. It's not true what you said, Mr. Tellado. In the Deputy, when the People's Party ruled, the contribution it made was zero euros. And, Mr Tellado, when it comes to that contribution from the Galician Union, it is a contribution in which, above all, ferrolans and ferrolas have to pay EUR 24,000 for this Holy Week to be broadcast on a public communications agency such as Galician public television. For the greatest sneeze, Mr. Tellado! This is the reality of Holy Week. So ironically, do you want Holy Week? Pay for it. But for us the priorities, Mr. Tellado, are Thursday at the naval demonstrations...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u343	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u344	...so people can eat. For the rest, Mr. Tellado, as you can well understand, we're going to do as in Ferrol: vote against.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u345	Thank you very much. Quiet, please. Socialist Group. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Quiet, please! Socialist Group. You have the word of Mr. Emilio Vázquez Blanco.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u346	Thank you, President. Mr. Tellado, of the importance of the Holy Week of Ferrol we are all acquaintances, it is enough to point out, as you well pointed out, that it was declared in 1995 a party of national tourist interest, and since 2014 an international tourist interest. It is enough to highlight also the number of people who each year visit Ferrol, who don't know if they're up to 300,000, as you say on your initiative, but the fact is that it's a very high number, and that 100% of host occupation has been reached in the city of Ferrol, which is therefore a very important event for this city. But the first thing that draws our attention to your initiative is the insistence that it is a religious party, that it is, obviously. But what we cannot agree with is that this is a justification for claiming the involvement of different administrations. The Socialist Group agrees that it is an engine of Ferrolterra's tourist promotion and that it is also an expression of popular culture, where we do not agree it is in the religious claim as an argument for its promotion. Because this group takes very seriously what is set out in Article 16.3 of the Spanish Constitution, which defines the Spanish State as a confessional. This would lead to a long and interesting debate about the relationship of religion with the state, which is a current issue, although today is not the case. But we must remember that this article of the Constitution says that no confession will have the character of state, that is, the State has no religious confession, which is aconfessional and therefore neutral to the religious fact. And since we're talking about this, just saying that what differs is the so-called "confessional state" of the secularist state is that confessional is neither indifferent nor restrictive with religion; on the contrary, it is positively valued, but it is not specifically ascribed to any confession. Thus, in this sense of confessionality and religious freedom, we can speak of ourselves as a secular state, even if it is not secular. Therefore, Mr. Tellado, in your consideration we disagree. We also do not agree with you to bring this Parliament a debate which we consider to be purely municipal. You ask on your initiative to urge the Ferrol Council to maintain a certain amount to subsidize the Holy Ferrol Week. I mean, we have to tell the Ferrol Town Hall what it has to do with its resources. Well, we don't agree with this either. I believe that the Government of Ferrol responds to the whole of the council, and that it is not from this Parliament where we have to direct the politics of the Town Hall. I know they're not in the Iron Government now, but that, as you always say, is what the citizens decided. So we already have two questions of your initiative that we do not agree with. But what we agree on is the importance of the Holy Week for Ferrol. I don't think they'd heard anything else from any socialist who wasn't our commitment to the maintenance of the fences needed for the celebration of this event of great tourist and cultural interest. It's always been like this, also during the years we had the city government, and now it's being the same way. The Socialist Party has always maintained its commitment to support the celebration of the Holy Week of Ferrol. Another thing is whether or not you like the proposals that the Iron Government is making, but the Iron Government is guaranteeing the celebration of this event. In fact, he's guaranteeing it not because we say it, but because there's an agreement between the municipal government and the Confederation Board that the Ferrol Council will provide 35,000 euros directly. And what is asked of the Galician Union is that the 40,000 euros that it delivered to the local administration for the organization of this event are delivered directly to the Conference of Brotherhoods, which are the ones that organize Holy Week; as happens, for example, on the Holy Week of Living. What is being asked by the Council of Ferrol is that, since for the People's Group it is so important to promote the Holy Week of Ferrol, it supports the free broadcast by the Galician Television, which is charging EUR 24,000 for its broadcast of the approach that makes the Unity of Galicia itself. In this way, funding for the Holy Ferrol Week is maintained, just as the local government has committed itself, in 75,000 euros. This agreement was made, as I said, between the Iron Government and the Confederation Board, whose president, Mr. César Carreño, explained that his assessment of the agreement was very positive. And he added, at the end of the meeting held with the local government, that "the next meeting we're going to come to here is to talk about technical issues, like traffic cuts. The rest is solved. There's a commitment from the Town Hall to provide 35,000 euros, and the board's commitment that its 40,000 today can be destined for Holy Week. So we're happy. 26 processions will come out, and I take advantage to say that Emilio Fernández will be the prayer of the Holy Week of 2016." Well, then I don't have much more to add. But from the Socialist Group we have tabled a replacement amendment to reach an agreement, which will take what I have just passed on to you. On the edge of the discrepancy of religious motives, we also disagree with the interference that we intend to make in municipal autonomy, so we urge the Government of Greece to respect and comply with the agreement reached between the Council of Ferrol and the Coordinator of Conferences of the Holy Week of Ferrol, an agreement made public and in a consensual manner by both sides. And in the part where we agree, which is the importance of the Holy Ferrol Week, we urge the German Government to retransmit the Holy Ferrol Week for free, since this is indeed the competence of this government. We hope that they will therefore accept our proposals. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u347	Thank you very much. For the Joint Group, Mrs Iglesias. [[Pause.]] Ladies and gentlemen, today I must not speak too loudly, but I have already spoken to you. I'm sorry if you didn't listen to me. [[Murmurs.]] I'm sorry, I might have been too far from the microphone. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u348	What are we gonna do to him! Trouble outside. Mr. Tellado, this subject was not to enter a parliament in a secular state. I don't know what these processions are all about. But in the resolution text it says that the Union and the Town Hall maintain support for the Holy Week of Ferrolterra. I suppose you refer to economic support, when the Council of Ferrol, a civil and democratic institution, already collaborates enough with religious confrries, allowing a superstition-based activity, not in culture, to occupy the streets of a city for days and offers and makes available to the summoners of such a manifestation of proselytism and propaganda of doctrine the mechanisms of security, organization and infrastructure. He therefore very much respects the Council of Ferrol's freedom of expression, giving a lesson of democracy to the People's Party, author and executioner of the so-called "Lei mordaza". I will not support this initiative. We live in a secular and aconfessional state, increasingly pluralized in religious beliefs. No celebration or staging of the measles of any creed must be suffraged with public funds. Besides, we're talking about an immensely rich institution. The Catholic Church accumulates throughout the state, through its more than 40,000 institutions, dioceses, parishes, orders, religious congregations, NGOs, foundations, associations, educational centers, universities, an enormous power, more than 110,000 properties in the form of places of worship, apartments or places of worship. According to Laica Europe, it owns the Catholic Church 70% of the urbanizable soil of Toledo, Avila, Burgos and Compostela. In addition to smaller percentages in many other municipalities. More than 150,000 hectares of rural soil, works of art, stock exchange participation, deposits, financial capital, foundations, letters of treasure. But, in case it wasn't enough, it also participates in media and editorial business. Despite being the woman of such a substantial heritage, and according to estimates from Laica Europe, the Spanish State funds the Church with more than 10 billion euros, between direct subsidies and tax exemptions. In comparative terms, a figure representing more than 1% of Spanish GDP, and implies a quota or donation to the Church of 18 euros a month per citizen. This data comes from a report called "Opacity and Financing of the Catholic Church", prepared by Francisco Delgado, President of Laica Europe, for the observatory of secularism and secularity, presented on 14 April, on the day of the establishment of the Second Republic. According to this study, only through the IRPF, the Episcopal Conference received in 2014 the amount of EUR 249.2 million, which are used to finance the operation of the Church, advertising campaigns – such as a procession – and especially for cult expenses – such as procession – and clergy. Furthermore, through the IRPF of 0.7 for social purposes, about 50 Catholic Church organizations distributed approximately 100 million euros, and benefited from tax exemptions and subsidies that could reach the amount of 1,700 million euros. The State also pays payrolls to religious teachers, hospital and prison chaplains and the armed forces, and to universities and public faculties. And you, with unemployment and poverty in the county and the Town Hall of Ferrol, come with this initiative to continue funding the Catholic Church. City especially punished for a crisis.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u349	It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u350	You dedicate the public money to finance... how dare you claim to spend public money on financing processions? Man, for God's sake! Nothing else, I won't support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u351	Thank you very much. Quiet, please. Mr. Jorquera, you have the floor for the Galician Nationalist Block.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u352	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen. The whole People's Group believes that Galicia's main issue is what Mr Tellado has just described. "It is up to you to select the initiatives, of course; but for the People's Group it is clear that this is the fundamental theme of Galicia. For me, the fundamental problem of Galicia today is, of course, the problem of 220,000 people who have no work." Mr. Tellado, do you recognize these phrases? I am an adapted recreation, of course, of the answer Mr. Noñez Feijó gave to the questions that were raised to protect Mr. Baltar denounced for sexual harassment. That's why I have to congratulate you, because this initiative is very enlightening. For the opposition, macho violence is one of Galicia's main problems. On the other hand, for the People's Group, the Iron Council reduces subsidies to the Holy Railway Week. Ferrol is the city of Galicia with more unemployment, poverty and emigration. But for the People's Group, Ferrol's main problem is what Mr Tellado has just described. [[Applause]] The People's Party cries out in the sky saying that Holy Week is one of the main expressions of popular culture, perhaps the great sin of Greek culture is not to have become a great processional step, because perhaps it would have freed itself from the cuts that Mr. Feijóo's Board has practiced, which already ascend to more than half of the resources that were previously assigned to the Greek culture. The Holy Week, according to the People's Party, is one of the main expressions of popular culture, it must not be, on the other hand, the Greek language. That's why since 2009 they've cut resources into normalization by 69%. Look, Mr. Tellado, I'm a ferrolan, I was born in Ferrol, although I live in the Coruña, as it is known, and I know of the roots of Holy Week in some parts of the city of Ferrol. But first, it's a demonstration of their bad way of doing politics that Parliament uses as a platform for its local battalions against the municipal government of Ferrol. Secondly, we do not believe that nomination grants are the best way to exercise transparency in the allocation of public resources. And thirdly, and perhaps most importantly, Mr. Tellado, we believe in secularism, in the need to separate the public from the religious. One thing is that tourism is promoted, and another is that it is the function of the public authorities to directly subsidize religious manifestations protected by the Church; a Church that also enjoys absolute and absolutely exceptional economic privileges, which not only undermine the confedestial character of the State, but also undermines equity and common sense. Since we are talking about the resources of the municipalities, Mr Tellado, I remind you that it is exempt from the payment of the IBI, it is also exempt from the payment of other taxes, while it turns out that to a large extent the conservation of its heritage, the payment of the Castrenian chaplains, the payment of the professors of religion, of the concerted educational centres belonging to religious confessions, it turns out that all this, on the other hand, is paid with money from everyone. Look, there are studies that evaluate, whether we add to the economic impact of tax exemptions or those issues that are covered by public resources, I insist, there are studies that assess the impact on the whole state of the economic privileges of the Catholic Church in 11 billion euros a year. That's why I invite you, and you understand this invitation, if you will, Mr. Tellado, as an amendment in voice, since we do not present amendments. Before asking the Council of Ferrol to keep the subsidies to the Holy Railway Week, ask the Church to pay tribute like all God! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u353	Thank you very much. Group author of the non-law proposal. Mr. Tellado Filgueira has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u354	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs. Díaz, my first initiative in this House was about the naval sector, and you voted against it; therefore, lessons from you, or the first. [[Applause]] The only thing is that you here in this debate have seen her very nervous, must have stepped up some silence. So you disagree. We present this same motion at the Ferrol Council, and you say you voted in favour. No, they voted against it. So don't try to play the trick. Look, we regret the lack of sensitivity of the Joint Group and the opposition groups. You practice that strategy of confusion, and I'm telling you, you won't be able to confuse anyone at all. It's you, Mrs. Díaz, sectarians and disrespectful to those who don't think like you. That's why you're terrible when they get to the government, because they rule... yes, yes, they're terrible when they get to the government, because they rule from resentment, from hatred, and from absolute intolerance to those who don't think like you. [[sighs]] [[sighs]] [[Applause]] Mr Vázquez, I thank you for the tone of the Socialist Party in this debate, not in previous debates, not in the Council of Ferrol, where Mrs Sestayo knows in what terms it is expressed. Of course, I thank that tone closer to the support expressed by the President of the Parliament. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u355	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u356	You recognize, yes, the 40,000-euro cut that will apply the Iron Government in Common and the Socialist Party, that's the only undeniable reality. You recognize, yes, that the Galician Union will maintain its support, and you recognize that the Provincial Council of the Crown will continue to work together. Look, there was no agreement between the Town Hall and the Brotherhood Coordinator, which is the imposition of a cut. That's the reality. [[Murmurs.]] Look, Mrs. Díaz, we're not going to accept your amendment because it's a lamentable smoke curtain; it's early for you not to accept it. You know everything Ferrol, Mrs. Díaz, that you want to end the Holy Week, that everyone knows, and that if they could ban it, you would do it. [[Protests.]] And since they can't forbid it...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u357	Mrs. Díaz, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u358	...what they do is try to drown. If they could ban Holy Week, they would do it; they would simply not be allowed by forceful legislation. That's the only reality, you act from lack of respect, from absolute sovereignty and intolerance. But I'm telling you more: the blame is not on you, the guilt is on the Socialist Party, which allows them to rule.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u359	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u360	Look, you came to this Parliament and there were nine, Mrs Díaz, they came to this Parliament and there were nine, they deserted two and remained seven; of these seven, one barely comes and another wants to go to Madrid. Of course, it's not a group in which we trust too much the Left Gaga Alternative Group. With good reason, Mrs. Díaz, you want to leave Galicia. Galicia also wants you to leave, but I don't think citizens are paying for the passport to Madrid. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u361	Thank you very much. As has been said, we then raise the following question. Mr. Pablo García García and Mr. Raúl Fernández Fernández, from the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the impact for the inhabitants of the rural environment of the new exemptions in the tributes competition of the Union of Galicia announced for the year 2016
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u362	You have the floor to ask Mr. Pablo García's question.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u363	Thank you, President. Only on behalf of the Socialist Group, not on behalf of Galicia. Counsellor, you are a member of a government with a president who lives forever at the publicity coup. Every time he speaks it seems to be the next day of his taking possession, and he always follows that maxim that never under any reason, and much less the truth, can spoil a headline. This, in addition to being less rigorous, is it, because it has a small problem: it is limited in time. And, therefore, we must invent an occurrence for every press round. And, of course, as press rounds are going on, as debates are going on in the state of Autonomy, occurrences are more complicated to invent, because they have to be always new. In fact, you review the announcements made in any of the debates in the state of Autonomy since Mr. Feijóo is president and what all those announcements and all those grandloquent headlines have remained. And of course, since there must be occurrences for all areas, the rural world is always affected by some occurrence, in all debates in the state of Autonomy there is an occurrence on the rural world. I, in fact, thought I would answer the rural councillor, since I wonder how this will affect the inhabitants of the rural environment. It is true that in this government and with these advisers you can speak with the same depth of rural affairs to the councillor of Fairy, to the health adviser, or to any other advisor, because it is with little rigor. The holders the following day of the debate in the state of Autonomy were the following: "Zero taxes in rural areas." Moreover, this has been repeated by both the councillor and all the Members and all the leaders of the People's Party. The truth is, what Mr Feijóo said in the debate about the state of autonomy, is a little different: "No transmission of farms in rustic soil will pay taxes on heritage transmissions. They will also stop taxing the transmission in the expansion of agricultural holdings and the groupings of rustic farms, of lands." It's a little different. But what you will adopt in the Accompaniment Law, which is where this measure is actually implemented, is already very different from what Mr Feijó said on the first day. What you say in the Accompaniment Act and, therefore, where this measure is moved is: "The reduction already collected in Law 19/1995" – see that it has not rained since 1995 – "relative to transmissions of agricultural holdings, increases by 98%, which were exempt, to 100%". That's Mr. Feijóo's news. Transfers into ownership and transfer to the Land Bank were also collected at 100 percent in the deduction of Law 6/2011. It has also rained something since 2011, so nothing new. Well, it's true that at the Land Bank it's collected for farmers and livestock, and you keep that open to everyone in changing the law. The 100 per cent deduction for prediversity groups was also already contained in the Law of 1995, and at the same time reaffirmed in the Law of the Previous Land Bank. The new one, what you say. The novelty is: deduction for rustic soil transmissions where you say inter vivos, that's the key word, of course, only rustic inter vivos. You don't have to define what's only rustic. Finally, so we can understand each other...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u364	Thank you very much, Mr. Garcia, thank you very much. You finished your question, it's written, thank you. [[Applause]] Mr. Valeriano Martínez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u365	Thank you very much, Madam President. One of the main factors that hinders the resizing of our agricultural holdings and its viability is land mobility. Since 2009, this government has been taking a number of measures that promote the approach of land management instruments, which aim to encourage farmers, livestock and forestry to access it. But all these instruments must be supported by dynamizing policies in the transmission of property and/or land use. The German Government, in the 2016 budgets, proposes a series of tax instruments so that tax is not an impediment to land mobilization with agrarian vocation. The measures are three. First, the deduction applicable to rustic soil transmissions. A 100% deduction is set for the quota of rustic soil transmissions, which means the total disappearance of this recording. This tax benefit operates only on rustic soil and not on constructions that could have existed on it. With this deduction and with the approval in the Law of improvement of the land structure of Galicia, which benefits. in succession tax, the transmission of rustic lands inherited by agricultural professionals is allowed, at no tax cost, to be made available to professionals of rustic lands who are in possession of people other than the rural world. Therefore, please place your value on the consequent economic and environmental benefits that this entails. Secondly, it is the deduction applicable to the transmission of priority agricultural holdings, 100% of the benefits in the quota provided for in the Law on the Modernisation of agricultural holdings, which means that the tax benefit is complete for the operations so marked and which have as their primary purpose both to favour the transmission of agricultural holdings and to increase their size. Currently these percentages range from 50% to 90% of the tax base reduction. Thus, they are completely free to record total or partial transmissions of agricultural holdings, increase the size of the holding or transmissions to young farmers. And thirdly, and lastly, it was necessary to facilitate the grouping of rustic buildings, because one of the traditional problems of our Greek countryside was the small size of farms. For this purpose, considering the previous benefits, a 100% deduction is also set for the record quota of documented legal acts that fall on this type of grouping. In short, there is no tax cost in acts or businesses that promote the expansion of the farm area and thus contribute to the elimination of the problem of minifundism in Galicia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u366	Thank you very much, Counselor. Mr. García's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u367	Thank you, President. What was about this question was to point out that the headlines are of no use, just like the changes of counsellor are of no use, because all we've got is that they're much more boring than the previous ones. [[Murmurs.]] I mean, Counselor, the question is that all this you collect in the Accompanying Law is neither good nor bad, it's simply useless, because it was already collected in the Law 1995. And what's new is for live inter-ferries from rustic farms, which in rural areas I know on rustic farms cannot be built, except for farmers and livestock who were already exempt from the Law of 1995; so for those who are neither farmers nor farmers, that is, they have no agricultural activity, the rustic farms that are sold in this inter-living country because they are quite few. So the problem is what you're here to answer. Because you were the only one who did the job well, because I imagine this sequence: that the president's deputy adviser, when this happened, asked an advisor of hiss, and he said, "Can I tell you this? And you said, "Of course, say it because it means absolutely nothing." I mean, this doesn't affect me at all in the Council of Galicia accounts; therefore, of course it can be said. Actually, you can say why it's useless. And you were the only one who did the job well. This measure is useless for all that you have said and reported, that farms and farmers have more land; this measure is useless when it comes to transmissions to prevent farms being abandoned, with the environmental problems they cause, and it is useless when it will not contribute anything to their budgets, supposedly expansive, but only from there. So it's a useless measure. It doesn't suppose anything, Counselor, everything you just reported was already collected in the law, and we didn't have land mobility. Everything! And the only novelty will not be effective. How much have you collected to Galician Union for buying-and-sales of inter-living rustic farms that are not farmers or farmers or have agricultural activities? Counselor, don't take our hair, don't take our hair. And the problem with this...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u368	Thank you very much, Mr. Garcia, your time is up. [[Applause]] Replica from Mr. Consecutor of Fairy, Mr. Valeriano Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u369	Thank you, Madam President, again. Two fundamental factors I tried to explain in my first intervention. The first one is to facilitate land mobilization by facilitating transmission in the same agricultural sector, that is, the land is not immobile or abandoned. [[Murmurs.]] The second had a clear fiscal component, to allow farms, at the lowest possible cost, the facility for what? [[Murmurs.]] To resize your holdings and be more competitive through savings in production costs. What really draws my attention is that these measures, with some grace, you indicate that they have little effectiveness. And what if I can point out to them, as is also evident in the Law of Measures and in the study that accompanies it, is that they have an impact on our important income, about 6 to 8 million euros. [[Murmurs.]] I understand that those 6 or 8 million euros look little or nothing. For me, the most important thing is not so much about income, but, ultimately, about all these measures, which complement those adopted in the Metaga, are a real sign, once again, that this government wants to show rural as a real option for the future. I understand that your lordship has a purely "director" job, but right now through fiscal policy we can contribute much and much better, with an impact on our income that we give for good so that it means the potential dynamization of our sector. For what? So that new ones can be installed in rural entrepreneurial projects, and they can be given all kinds of facilities, including taxes. So all the measures make up the same system so that our rural community is actually a real choice for all our professionals who are engaged in this activity. So, I think the fiscal measure complements perfectly others that we have developed since 2009, even other things like the Land Bank, because it doesn't prevent all kinds of legal acts that are still being carried out in the Land Bank, and it will allow minifundism to be less, that that professional who really wants to access to expand his exploitation, either by buying or by combining certain lands, can do so, and so we all get more and more and more to put into value our rural area, which is what it is all about. Please laugh, as few as possible. [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-01-DSPG133.u370	Thank you very much. We'll stop the meeting until tomorrow at ten o'clock. Good night, thank you very much.
