ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u1	The agenda for this session is published in the Official Gazette of the Parliament of Galicia, so it is not read. No inassistances have been justified. We are therefore on the agenda, with the first item, of legislative texts, with debate and vote... [[Mr. Jorquera Caselas asks for the word.]] Yes, Mr. Jorquera, what do you want the word for? Please give a voice to Mr. Jorquera's chair. Proposal for a modification of the agenda
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u2	Article 73.1 provides that the agenda of the plenary may be amended by agreement on a proposal from the President, at the request of two parliamentary groups or a fifth of the members of the House. We would like to make a proposal to amend the agenda, which is also signed by the Group of the Gaga de Left Alternative, to include the bill with register number 31372 to present before Congress the request for transfer of the title and competences of AP-9 to the Galician Council, a bill that was vetoed by the PP at the Speaker's Board for inclusion in the agenda of this plenary; and also the question to the president, with register number 35083, about how he assesses that the party that presides in the upcoming municipal elections numerous candidates charged.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u3	Thank you very much, Mr. Jorquera. [[Mr Díaz Pérez asks for the floor.]] Mrs. Díaz?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u4	Good morning, Madam President. We simply adhered to the request made by the Nationalist Block Group to change the agenda and the incorporation of this bill.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u5	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u6	...and also the question to the president.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u7	Thank you very much. Well, if you think so, then we voted for this change in the agenda. Voting of the proposal for a modification of the agenda, at the initiative of the parliamentary groups of the Galego Nationalist Bloc and the Galga de Left Alternative, consists of including the debate of the bill registered with paragraph 31372 and the question to the President of the Board registered with paragraph 35083. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 30; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. This change in the order of the day is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u8	So we started the development of the agenda with point 1 of legislative texts. Debates and votes on the opinion of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, drawn up by the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, of the draft law on the quality of public services and of good administration
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u9	They remain for the full amendment of the Galego Nationalist Block, the Glaga Alternative of the Left and the Socialist Parliamentary Group. I have the floor, for the presentation of the Commission's dictation, the chairman of Commission 1st, Mr Agustín Baamonde Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u10	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good morning, gentlemen. The draft law on the quality of public services and good administration was entered into the Parliament Register on 31 October 2014. The Bureau of Parliament issued its publication in the Official Bulletin of the Parliament of Galicia and the opening of the deadline for the submission of amendments. Even so, listening to the Speaker's Board, he agreed to have it processed by Commission 1st. The total amendments were qualified by the Commission Bureau on 3 December 2014, and the partial amendments on 17 December 2014 too. Parliamentary groups of the Galego Nationalist Block, the Alternative Left Galaga and the Galician Socialists each presented amendments to the whole, which were rejected at the plenary session on 16 December 2014. With regard to partial amendments, the People's Parliamentary Group made 4; the Socialists' Parliamentary Group, 61; the Parliamentary Group of the Left Galician Alternative, 74; and the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, 34. At its meeting on 30 December, the Commission appointed the following rapporteurs: from the Popular Parliamentary Group, Ms Paula Prado del Río as the holder and Fr. Jacobo Moreira Ferro as alternate; from the Socialists Group of Galicia, Ms. Beatriz Sestayo Doce as holder and Mr. Ricardo Vicente Docasar Docasar as alternate; from the Parliamentary Group of the Alternative Left Glaga, Ms. Yolanda Díaz Pérez as holder and Mr. José Javier Ron Fernández as alternate; from the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Ms. María Terixea Paz Franco as alternate; and Mr. Francisco Xesús Jorquera as alternate; and from the Mixed Group, Ms. María Consuelo Martínez García as owner and Ms. Carmen Igles Sueiro as alternate. The Constitutive Session of the Presidency took place on 13 January 2015, and after successive meetings it prepared a report which was the subject of discussion and adoption at the Commission's session on 13 March 2015. The text of the articulate is structured in a preliminary title and three other titles with two additional layouts, three transients, one derogation and five finals. So far the legislative work developed by this commission. You must now submit your ruling and plenary consideration to the approval, if appropriate, of your lordships. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u11	Thank you very much, Mr. Baamonde. The turn of parliamentary groups to set their position on the dictatorship and, if so, to defend the amendments maintained. For the Joint Group, you have the floor to Mrs. Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u12	Thank you, President. Good morning to all and to all. The lack of real will of the Galician Union to bet on a transparent administration is evident in the refusal to accept that the General Plan for the Improvement of Public Services is debated and approved by this Parliament, after approval by the Council of the Union. Nor can Parliament exercise its control over the degree of compliance with the Plan, since its referral to the parliamentary debate is not allowed. In other words, it is intended to adopt a Law on the quality of public services and good administration without the participation of all parliamentary groups, even in relation to, precisely, the improvement of the quality of public services. Thus, the bill does not collect access and control methods from citizens in contracts between the Administration and private companies. They should apply and be accessible to the citizenship above all administration contracts, with their justification, amount, duration, changes, etc. To ensure transparency in the functioning of the Public Administration, the first is to create the necessary means for citizens to have easy and agile access to all information on the use of public money. But, above all, citizenship has the right to access to the justification of the public money that receives private companies, to the justification for the need for such privatization, to the control that such public money is used in the procurement object and to meet the quality standards set in it. As I have said, there are several objective reasons for voting against this bill. But in case they were not yet sufficient, the People's Party intends, through article 37 of this bill, for all public services provided, regardless of the mode in which they are provided, that, in the absence of officials of the authority, the staff responsible for the operation of the service may take the necessary measures for the use of the service. I don't know if it's the PP with which he's trying to convert employees and public employees and workers from the concessional companies of the exploitation of public services into pseudopolices. The Administration must ensure the rational use of public money, so it must, within its inspector's work, verify that the money from the concessions and administrative contracts does not object to the employer's overwork in deterioration of the quality of the service. In other words, the Government of Greece has an obligation to prevent public money from being used for entrepreneurs like Mr. Silveira Martín to present business benefits greater than EUR 11 million of the profit produced by cuts in labour rights and quality of assistance carried out with public money. This bill also reflects the same scurantism as the Public Employment Bill, as well as establishing mechanisms that guarantee full transparency in selecting senior management and senior management staff, as well as the remuneration of senior officials. It presents, the People's Party, a bill that simply recognizes rights but escapes the commitment to guarantee these rights. As is the case in the Public Employment Bill, the Board again leaves public workers in the education, health and justice sectors out of this bill. And if we talk about public workers, again – just like in the Public Employment Bill – we refuse again any participation in the legal representation of workers and workers, and even as far as their training is concerned, in the elaboration of the procedural manuals and in the reception manual of the staff again. The People's Party must understand that there is no democracy without unions. With its absolute majority you can impose your criteria. So it is clear that we are faced with an ideological omission that seeks to ensure the exclusion of trade unions from the decisions of the Greek administration towards possible future governments without most. As ideology also indicates, in the event that the Administration opts for the termination of the contract, the contractor will have the right to be compensated. But he doesn't talk about the workers and workers of the contractor who lose their jobs. What about them and them? In other words, the People's Party once again bets on the independence of the working class and the permissiveness of businessmen who violate legality, exploit their workers and damage the quality of service. In fact, the bill collects, in the evaluation of the indirect management service, a report on service quality standards and user rights. Nothing says about the maintenance and quality of the job. It is revealing – if anyone still had any doubts – the commitment of the Union and the People's Party for the privatization of public services, refusing to acquire any commitment to defend them. So far comes the privatiser of the Union and the People's Party, that the bill does not raise the need to justify the economic or social interest of private management. Of course, there is no mechanism either to ensure that such privatization will not entail an increase in the cost and a deterioration in the quality of the service. But there's more: the bill collects the contractor's right to subcontract. You don't understand what this is anymore. Does the Administration need contractors to make intermediaries with third parties? These practices are deteriorating the quality of public services with the sole objective of increasing the benefit of contractors. These companies submit to the Administration such low offers that they do not comply with the service and its collective agreement, and then they look for more precarious companies that perform part of the service at least cost. As you might expect, neither will this Parliament receive any reports on the justification for the need for private management, or on the quality control of the service provided and its costs. The bill seems to be, above all, designed to ensure the simplicity of privatization processes or public-private management. It insists on the primacy of financial stability on the guarantee and quality of health, education and social services, rejecting any formula for financing through taxes. So, according to logic, the bill should be called "depending on the quality of public services in relation to financial stability." He insists on causing the deterioration of essential public services while he does electoral propaganda. Our public health system is collapsed, professionals overwhelmed and precarious, citizens deprived of their right to health. The demonstrations take place throughout the year in demand for quality public services, for the end of austerity and privatization, but the German Government makes deaf ears. Teachers, economists and a multitude of experts warn of the danger of cuts in education for the future, and above all in compulsory education, but the Government also makes deaf ears. I mean, it's a law that only seeks the benefit of large contractors, those that have been giving money to the People's Party for their election campaigns for years. It's a law that comes to justify, precisely, all that corruption, which does not introduce a single measure to be able to verify how public money is used by private concessionary companies. There is no single measure to guarantee the real quality of the public services that these concessionaires perform. Nor is there any measure to ensure the quality of employment, to measure employment progress in concessionary enterprises, and also to end work insecurity. So it's a law that only tries to justify and benefit concessionary companies by simplifying the privatization of public services. But at the height of the insult to the intelligence of the Greeks and the Greeks, we see again the rejection that the Union of Galicia and the People's Party have towards our language. There is total and absolute rejection in the law to ensure the use and use of the Greek language with citizens as the first language to address the citizens and the citizens of Greece. So we're going back to seeing that autonomous with our language, which is not understood in any way beyond a Spanish nationalism that totally and absolutely invades the People's Party. I'd like to, when the People's Party speaks, they answer me what's going on with the English language. Why do they refuse to include as a principle of action of the Greek public services the promotion of our language? So we're talking about a bill that's worth propaganda. What does Junta understand when he speaks of good administration? Why does this law have such a generic name "good administration"? According to the bill, good administration is an effective, impartial, objective administration that acts within the established time frame. It speaks nothing of a transparent administration, accessible, agile, democratic, open to the participation of citizenship. To ensure that the Galician Administration acts within the established time frame, this bill does not set maximum time periods for responding to citizens, and, if it does, they are excessively dilated, when a slow administration is ineffective. An example of this lack of real commitment to citizenship is that the complaints of citizens and citizens do not compromise response time. This fact obliges many Greeks and Greeks to resort to the judicial procedure for matters which could be resolved administratively. Because, after makeup language, there is a lack of commitment to actually make an administration for citizens and citizens, a transparent, agile and accessible administration. It does not guarantee equality in access to all citizens by establishing tariffs for procedures between the Administration and citizenship, since they should be covered by direct taxes. You can tell Junta that costs don't exceed a certain amount, but there are people who today any extra expense, however small it may be, is a problem. And in some cases more seem to be fines for misconduct than administrative charges, as is the case with the highest 10 euros that must be offered to renew the health card in the event of loss or deterioration. Therefore, the establishment of tariffs for access to certain procedures discriminates against the most economically vulnerable persons. But this bill is not left there, but it also converts the Administration into the "collaborator of the bankruptcy" of the concessionaires, by collecting the debts that the people who use the service maintain with the concessionaires. So again, we see an administration at the single service and exclusively of the interests of private companies, even making collectors of them. We are therefore faced with a law to which we will vote against, because it is neither directed nor improving the quality of public services nor ensuring the quality of employment or ensuring compliance with the terms of the contract of concessionary undertakings. So this bill will count on our vote against. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u13	Thank you very much. Parliamentary Group of the BNG. Mrs. Paz Franco has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u14	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. We are facing a bill that today culminates in its parliamentary process and which is entitled "Project of Law on the Quality of Public Services and Good Administration." We are therefore, as any one of you can understand, before a bill that has two distinct parts, one that aims to achieve and guarantee the quality of public services and another that has to do with good administration. And I make this introduction to say that, although it is true that in the course of the motion we have reached numerous agreements by the members of this motion, both with amendments accepted by the majority group and with other transactions, which, of course, have improved in a fairly relevant way what we could consider the second part of the law, that is, what has to do with good administration – and then I will discuss some questions concerning this question which have been incorporated into the table and which, as a result, have positive results as a result of the amendments submitted by the parliamentary groups and the transaction effort made in the submission – we must say that from the point of view of the Parliamentary Group of the Galician Nationalist Bloc, in what should be the essential part with which this law is entitled, which is the guarantee of the quality of the public services, not only have been incorporated or transacted by amendments, but we must say that from the point of view of the point of view of view of the text of the Galician nationalist bloc, in the point of view of view, which should be interpreted as such as to ensure that the quality of application of demand. With regard to the issues in which this law was improved and those which had something to do with the amendments made by this parliamentary group, let me highlight three. And it's the introduction of a new article 17a entitled "Simplification and axillity in relations with citizenship", which is the result of a transaction with Amendment No. 29 of the Nationalist Block of Galicia, where certain specific criteria are established, let's say, and some specific guidelines for the administration to move forward on that path of agileization and simplification of administration. Although, indeed, from the point of view of the Galego Nationalist Block, this provision is in line with the fact that nothing has been accepted or done in relation to the content of our Amendment No 28, where specific parameters were established for specific simplification issues. And I'm going to put several examples. In this amendment, the need was made for, within six months, the Government of Greece to establish mechanisms to reduce deadlines in all administrative procedures, in particular those for the purpose of granting aid and grants for activities financed under current non-inventible operating expenses, in grants to training and research activities, in procedures relating to authorisations or permits for activities which do not require environmental impact assessment and in the procedures for aid or investment grants at a time when necessary is the activity of promoting economic and business initiatives by the Administration. And I am not going to read, because all of you have the amendment, but, indeed, for two pages, concrete criteria and specific parameters for reducing deadlines for such important issues were established in which it was established that in this type of procedure in no case the time limit could be more than three months. There is also another area in which amendments from the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group have been accepted and which have to do with the establishment of certain obligations that the law did not impose on public service contractors, both in the field of the rights of workers and workers – although there are other issues I will talk about after they have not been accepted – also restrictions on the use of public administration premises and materials by those companies, which has also been incorporated into the text, or, in the third transitional provision, in which there is a result of a transaction with the amendment of the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group if they are required to grant concessionary undertakings and contractors who have already been taxed or in ways of adjudicating the provision of any kind of public service to comply with the essential elements of this law. We must remember that we denounced the Nationalist Galego Block in the debate in full that this transitional provision expressly excluded companies that had already hired, or that it had already begun, from having to comply with the provisions of this law. And finally, we also welcome the fact that, as a result of an amendment by the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Article 37 introduces that Greek will be the language of normal and preferential use in all activities related to the organization and provision of public services. We hope that, indeed, on the part of the Galician Council, there will be an intention to comply with this principle and that, consequently, the necessary measures will be taken to ensure that the persons providing such public services, both in the public service and in the contracting companies, have the obligation to know the language of Greece in order to be able to comply with this principle. And now, ladies and gentlemen, if I may, I will go to those amendments that have not been accepted and that for the Galician Nationalist Block were essential to ensure what is the first part of the title of this law, which is the guarantee of the quality of public services, and which motivate the maintenance of our refusal to this law. We said in the whole debate that, in order for a law to really go beyond propaganda and it constitutes an element to ensure the provision of public services, from the point of view of the Nationalist Block of Wales the first thing to do was to ensure that services were indeed public. And yet it must be said that a very relevant part of this law is dedicated to regulating the provision, as it is called in the law itself, indirect of public services. From our point of view, therefore, it does not establish measures to ensure that the preferred form of provision is the public. In this sense, we regret that Amendment No 8 to the Galego Nationalist Block, which established that public management will have a preferential character and that the use of private management of these services should be preceded by the preparation of a study compared to public management in which the reasons for an economic, legal, administrative and financial nature justifying the use of this management formula are explained. This was not accepted by the People's Group, and, on the other hand, in Article 34 it is maintained, in its fourth paragraph, that in the procedure for drawing up general provisions by which the establishment of the public service is agreed, a memory should be included, etc. In other words, the law not only establishes no caution or any need for justification on the part of the Public Service for the use of indirect benefit, i.e. the privatization of the management of a public service, and, however, it does establish cautions and obligations on the part of the Administration, and the need for justification, where one wants to establish a public service or to provide a service from the scope of the Public Service. You tell me, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, if it's not a clear bet on indirect benefit. We had a suppression amendment, Amendment No. 9, to this heading. There is another element, which has to do with the provision that you call indirect public services, that you have not taken into account either, and that we want to establish through the law, which was a greater guarantee for users, for users of public services provided by contractors, which was not accepted by the People's Group, or the introduction of criteria to provide more transparency and duties for contractors. For example, from the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group we tabled an amendment requiring that contractors and public service providers should respect the same or similar legislation as in the field of public administration in all procurement procedures, both personnel and other types, and the need to set up a follow-up commission in the field of administration to ensure the effective compliance with the other conditions under which the concession is granted, which has not been accepted by the People's Parliamentary Group. So we believe that they are very important in this law for ensuring the quality of public services when they are provided indirectly. We also denounced in the whole debate that there was no guarantee of funding for public services, an element that is key to us at a time when we could put here hundreds of examples – we have put some in the whole debate – in which we are seeing a gradual deterioration in the public services resulting from the systematic cuts to which they have been subjected in recent years, both in the recruitment of staff and in the provision of material, technical and all kinds of resources. In this sense, the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group tabled an amendment – Amendment No 2 – in addition to including within the scope of this law, at least in the basic elements, services as essential to citizenship as health, education and justice, which are expressly excluded from the scope of this law in its articulation, we established that there had to be adequate funding. And it wasn't even a fine of peaks. The one presented by the Nationalist Block of Wales was a more modest amendment, in which all we said were three fundamental issues. One is that spending programmes relating to public services will have to have the necessary resources to be able to meet these public services. How unreasonable is this proposal? Right, ladies and gentlemen? We have set another obligation for the Government, which is that, when budget spending programmes have to reduce them – even if we had to look at the scenario of need for public expenditure – we would have to include in the spending forecasts that the first to affect, in general, senior management expenditure, the General Administration, multi-year commitments derived from administrative contracts not linked to public services; that is, if we have to cut, if we really cut into the superfluous, and not, as you have been doing all these years, affecting the central core of public services.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u15	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u16	And finally, we established that, when budgets grow, essentially that increase is intended to restore all the damage that has been done to public services. This amendment has not been dealt with either. And, of course, we continue to maintain that the only guarantee of the quality of public services is that they contain adequate funding to ensure a universal and public quality provision to and from citizens. And there is also another fundamental issue in this law, which is that the universality of the provision of public services is not guaranteed in any case, either when they are provided directly or through indirect management. In that sense, the BNG had several amendments, 1 to 3 and 4, which were not met either. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u17	End, please, Mrs. Peace.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u18	...we could say that, if it were just a good administration law, it could have an approval, even if it had only been scrapped; but, in the matter of a quality guarantee law for public services, we can only grant it a round suspension. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u19	Thank you very much, Mrs. Paz. For the Parliamentary Group of the Left Gaga Alternative, Mrs. Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u20	Good morning, President. Good morning to all of you. First of all, I want to point out that Alternative Glaga de Left will support and defend the amendments that we tabled to this proposal made by the People's Party, and that we formulate exactly 74 concepts different from what is a text relevant to our country. I can anticipate that, without a doubt, we are at the forefront of the political approach being formulated by the People's Party, and that, far from that title which takes the norm, nothing has to do with the reality of what is happening. Of course, this norm is far from what are today basic needs or citizenship demands, as are essentially open governments. This is about participatory democracy, although it is already quite old to talk about participatory democracy for many years, and even after we have many examples of municipalities and administrations that no doubt already engage in these new practices, which I insist that they are already old. However, despite their old practices, the People's Party is stubborn and in no way wants to be incorporated into the formulation of this text. It is true that many of the amendments that the Alternative Left Galeg are based on the principle of citizenship participation as a maximal formula to avoid not only the departure of the current public, but also as a guarantee of avoiding the looting of the public that is being propitiated by many of the rulers. But also one of the central axes of our proposals is based precisely on those formulas of sharing and decision-making based on codecision, but mostly focused on a new way of doing things. I have to say, firstly, that formally this text is quite poor, it is poor, it adds nothing to what we have already collected in our rules. And even that wording that the People's Party defended in a recent text of the year 2003 was negatively amended to seek regulatory simplification. Not only do we not walk towards regulatory simplification, but we are driving out citizenship with rules that we want or assume the People's Party wants to sell as a true smoke to indicate they're doing something. But I insist that they don't incorporate anything new and substantial into the Greek reality. This rule deepens in what we already have, Law 30/1992, Lofaxga, Decree 48/2004, in terms of the quality service letter and observatory, Law 4/2006, transparency – which the People's Party is now engaged in, in a new way of incorporating or selling that they do something, in a new law of transparency, it seems that they were not worth what we already had – or, for example, you correct. And this is the headline we have to give today, and we have to say that, as we have already said in writing and in committee, they correct favourably, that give us reason by changing the additional provision of the Law on the Rationalization of the Greek Public Sector. Look at us asking them to be able to develop the Administrative Tribunal of the Contract and to be a Greek, not to go to that defense that they made centralize everything in Madrid. Now, perhaps the best part of the rule is that they correct – I insist – and are finally willing and willing to create this administrative court, so that we will bring to the citizenship – no doubt – the establishment of such resources. It's probably also because they have bad news from this central court; for example, the recent resolution in which they declare the full-right radical nullity of the demand for tenders, for example privatizations of the firefighting service in the province of Coruña, or many other resolutions that this court has reached and that are amending the plan to the Government of the United States of Galicia. So it's a standard that doesn't incorporate anything new, everything is collected into existing standards. And it is curious that if you review the same standards that we have in the Spanish State, you all point out that this quality of public services will be met in a substantial way in relation to the welfare state, which has been health, education and justice, as central elements. Almost this norm formulated by the People's Party excludes from the application of the planning of this performance of good administrative quality the substance of the welfare state. Why would it be? Why do you, far from providing the welfare state and allowing there to be a constant assessment of these substantial public services, stay away from it? It will be an additional application, finally, when I insist that it should be the central action of the rule itself. Of course, we are going to vote against this text – I insist – because, too, if we compare with the rest of the state's standards, we can see how they all move towards a new way of doing politics, move forward towards collective decision-making or co-participate with citizenship. Not only do you want to do that but they close the doors so that Greek citizenship can participate. We urge, and I suppose the spokesperson of the People's Party will say so, because more than twenty amendments have to do with this reason, but we urge the creation of the Galician Council of Citizenship, on which the Office for the Defence of People's User of Public Services will depend, and that it will also be like a lung that assesses the public policies of the Galician Union, or even, in addition, will be that governing council of citizenship what it has to issue reports on the management that is being practised by the Galician Union. But obviously, I insist that you shut the door, don't want open governments and don't want transparent crystal governments and governments. Many of our amendments can look, for example, at the formulations that are made in Navarre, which are very interesting, and they have to do with that transparency that not only reaches public services, but reaches public agendas. Many of the amendments of Alternative Galga de Left insist on the need to advertise the annual political objectives of each of the departments of the Union of Galicia, even to evaluate how these public targets are being executed, and also with an obligation to render accounts if there is a deviation or change the political approaches that have developed by the Union of Galicia. This insists that it is not accepted by the Galician Union itself, nor does it allow any space in which Greek citizenship can say anything. You, for example, are privatizing substantial public services without listening to anyone. Our proposals are rightly based on that open listening and dialogue with the citizenry and on that active listening with the citizenry that, I insist, you do not authorize. But it's just that, in addition, our amendments also have to do with the fundamental breach of transparency in the public administration, a question that they don't accept in any way. It is normal, because we have made what level of opacity we have, for example, that any of the Members and Members of this House have no access – I say again – to what is the budget – and I am talking about public budgets – to which there is no place we can find, that we are dedicated to remunerating the members of the Galician Council of Radio and Public Television, something so substantial. The normal thing would be that, for example, this spokesman could know exactly, in the public budget, how many millions of euros we dedicate to that important mass of wages. Well, we don't know. Or we are not, for example, able to know what the public agendas of this intense traveller are, what Mr. Feijóo is on each of his routes through Latin America; that is, as substantial as we can know in advance what his agendas are and what he was fundamental and if he was doing, how the media are attending these trips so that the citizenship of Galicia can know what it is doing. But, for example, also a transparency that we ask for maximums, which, as I said, must be agendas, contracts, agreements. We did what we had to do to get the Povervisa agreement. More than 90 million euros of Greek public resources, and it turns out that little less than we have to do, because, I don't know, an atrocious campaign to find out about this looting that you're doing in a substantial part of our country's health. Or, for example, the opacity that exists regarding the agreement of a company very relevant to the Galician Union, as Reganosa is. Of course, it's shocking to know the content. I know perfectly well that it is scandalous that the Greek citizenship knows that possible losses, tremendouss, of the deficit of that gas infrastructure run in charge of the public era. Man, it's a scandal, we assume that that's why they don't want to know him. But we ask that these conventions, of course, be public. We call for all the aid, for all the grants, for all the percentages of recruitment, of free designation, of execution of the budget, of absolutely everything that has to do with public resources to be transparent. And we also ask for something substantial in these proposals: a plan to strengthen public services. Not only do we not opt for the formulation that this norm insists on, which is in indirect management and on those lines of compensation and collages that uniquely highlights the text, but we just want to the contrary, we want public services to be based on something that they are not today: that they are universal, that they are free and that they are of quality; and, of course, based – and we put it as a central principle – on the direct management of services. You, in Article 38 – as we well know – jump through the rates, payments and other plans that – I insist – do not coincide at all with ours. But we also want a public service recovery plan. We urge many of our amendments justly to the suppression of everything that has to do with privatization of services; particularly, that defense that makes the Galician Union and the People's Party go to subcontracting, even if it is partial – as is done in the text –. That's precarious public services, and it's precarious workers and workers. We ask, as a substantial step forward in this so-called administrative modernization, something as substantial as, indeed, once and for all ensuring electronic administration – we could talk about justice, then there is an initiative by the People's Party and we will have an opportunity to evaluate the path plan, it is embarrassing what is going on. But we also want something substantial like incorporating the principle of technological neutrality, which does not exist. And we also incorporate amendments in which we jump for free software, because the scandal and the business – I say so of course – of Amtega is to study. And, of course, we'll bring the debate here, too, the audit of Amtega. We do not share the rights and duties that formulate the text of the People's Party as a basic text. For example, this is what's happening in emergencies these days. The culprits of what happens in the public health service are the citizens and the citizens who are sick. For, indeed, one of the principles, of the duties of this rule, is the duty not to abuse public services. Clearly, he believes the thief that everyone is of his own condition. In fact, this must be radically eliminated because citizenship does not abuse public services, citizenship is to go to public service, which, of course, pays taxes. We finally push for another rule that has nothing to do with what the People's Party makes. We want that in everything that has to do with transparency, for example – a concrete amendment –...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u21	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u22	...if you design a person by lot, which will be renewed annually in each department. And you'll be the person in charge of being neutral in issuing that annual report that you have to report. Finally, we want an open government, we want citizen participation. And we want – and finally, Madam President – something relevant, which has unfortunately been happening for a long time in our country. And it is, in fact, one of the precepts directly says that in management, one cannot approach the privatization of services – says the norm, in indirect management – when we are faced with activities that require authors. Well, I'm telling the People's Party that they can comply with the existing rules and all the services...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u23	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u24	...of emergency needs to be rescued. I'm talking about firefighters and actually I'm talking about 112 and a lot more. Because I suppose we'll agree that firefighters in this country have to be sheltered or covered with autoritas...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u25	Thank you very much, Mrs. Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u26	... otherwise we'll go wrong. So we're going to vote against it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u27	Thank you very much. Socialist Group. Mrs. Sestayo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u28	Thank you, President. The Socialist Parliamentary Group will obviously vote against this bill, as we have stated from the very first moment in the debate in plenary and in the debate in committee. We also announced in full and in commission that we would not be complicit in the pairing of appearance policy and advertising policy and propaganda that are developing from the Galician Union, with which they intend to disguise everyday events seeking news at the expense of legislating. The frivolity of the legislative activity of the People's Party, the truth is that it scares a legislative chamber, a chamber of popular representation, where we are accustomed to legislate, to dictate general standards for all, is a very serious matter. In fact, this law, the so-called "Projet of Law on the Quality of Public Services and Good Administration" or any kind of guarantee or protection of public services and, of course, it is incompatible with good administration. So we're once again faced with titles sought at the marketing of the propaganda operation, as has happened with many legal texts of the state. What about rationalization of local administrations that neither rationalized nor sustained? But the truth is, once again, we put electoral propaganda ahead of Galicia's interests. First, we're under a law that is originally intended for public service, but it's very soon to take care of the legislative text saying that education, health and justice are excluded from these public services. So we're under a law of quality of public services that excludes three fundamental public services. And if we note that within these public services, and according to official data, we have in education there is a depreciation of squares, a destruction of teaching squares, of more than 2,200 posts since the take-up of the Government of Nuñez Feijóo, if we note that, according to the data of the Health Platform, there is a destruction of more than 2,000 professionals within that area, if we count the destruction and failure of substitutions that are operating in the wake of justice in Galicia, to which all reform operations have to be added – as is happening in the Civil Registry yesterday, which gave rise to vigorous protests in different cities and localities in Galicia – because we are leaving nothing more and nothing less to public services that destroyed 6,000 jobs since the take-over of Feijóo. It's no wonder they're left out. But in addition, if we put the literal text of the articles of the Public Service Quality Law, we see that it is incompatible with other laws governing other services. And I'm going to put two examples to be graphs as well. It is incompatible with some of the precepts – we announced – of the Social Services Act. So we also left out Galician social services where they have also been destroyed – admitted by the Government itself – more than 1,500 jobs between the depreciation of jobs and the destruction of public squares. So we're already at 8,000 jobs destroyed within public services that are neither collected nor held within this law. And, indeed, we have come to another service where the greatest contradiction and the incredible pirouette is already given, and it is in a very short time that the Public Service Quality Law, on the one hand, enters this Parliament; and, on the other hand, the Public Employment Act. One is incompatible and contradictory with emergency management, Mr Vice-President. While the Public Employment Quality Act leaves a margin – you seem to be treating it as a mistake, we will see what remains of the text of the presentation – about the need for emergency management to be done by professionals who have the quality of public authority, that is, in contrast, a contradiction to the text of the Public Service Act. Therefore, you are even contradicting yourself in laws that come in parallel in this Parliament, so that this legislation obviously obeys solely – as we said – propaganda. But, in addition, this law runs counter to Galicia's Transparency and Good Practices Law, we insist, that transparency law that is in force, approved by the two-party Government, and that you have not applied and remain unimplemented. But instead of having the courage, if they don't agree with the law of transparency, of overthrow – they are in the legitimacy of breaking down a law, they have the absolute majority to do it – you stop doing it. They make that conscientious objection in fact that prevents law from being enforced. And now, however, they say a law that does not derogate from the law of transparency but contradicts several of its precepts; therefore, it is obvious that we are before a law of propaganda. But, in addition, this Law on the quality assurance of public services deeply increases public services. And it's a law that also conflicts with essential principles that today citizenship defends as public services. That's why the Socialist Parliamentary Group, within the 61 amendments that have been tabled, makes such obvious amendments within the social context in which we are living, within the defense of the public services that citizens are doing in the face of aggressions on a right that begin to privatize and destroy them. First of all, we're talking about multiple legislation on the same issue, which is also contradictory to each other. We therefore establish principles of coordination as set out in Amendment No 3 to the Socialist Parliamentary Group. The majority of the People's Party is against the coordination of the different requirements governing the quality of public services. Which is all an exposition of reasons about what this law is about: better, uncoordinated, and better without planning. Secondly, the Socialist Parliamentary Group has made numerous amendments to the citizen participation, citizen participation and participation of the Galician Parliament. The first contains in Articles 4, 5, 6 – in respect of the proximity of management to citizenship – while Parliament's intervention is particularly collected in Amendments 31 to 61. Well, the People's Party is against the principle of transparency, the principle of public services being rendered in close proximity to citizenship, the capacity for evaluation, and Parliament's participation in the control of public services. So once again we contrast the electoral propaganda of language, which is very easy to write a speech to try to give an electoral discursive message to the reality of the legal precepts that establish an opacity of public services and a regression in the control of the quality of public services. In fact, once again, we find ourselves with laws that collect plans, public service plans. But since you are in this legal text, you want to talk about general plans for improving the quality of public services, within this propaganda drive, with the same public services that either are not regulated in the law – we insist, education, health and justice – but also by default – social services or emergencies – you will already tell me what public services are collected in the law, because still no one has been able to tell us what public services – a very specific question of this parliamentary group – are settled in this law. Well, the truth is, they come up with a plan, like they don't, they come up with a plan, and they also come up with a regulation that will be made within a year, and so on. We are in the same legislative process as the People's Party: propaganda, advertising ministry and propaganda.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u29	Please be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u30	We see that the economic memory, the general plan for improving the quality of public services that you are going to present, we say that they present it to Parliament. The intervention of transparency and control of the people's representation chamber in assessing the quality of public services. You vote against it, too, against that transparency. I don't know what you'll have to hide about a plan that you're supposed to present to improve public services, but you think Parliament should not intervene in this matter. We say that plan, to be rigorous, must have an economic memory. If you have a public service plan that aims to assess or improve them, you must be accompanied by the coming economic memory. They vote against this amendment as well. No transparency, no citizen participation, no economic memory... because we are again faced with a propaganda operation of which you – I have to say – have sober experience. But in addition, we say that Parliament is informed of a very simple matter. There is often discussion in this forum, through parliamentary initiatives put forward by the opposition groups, by opposition groups, about services that are clearly rendered privatised – you can call it indirect management. We, in order not to disturb them with the possibility of accepting the amendment, even we said that they would inform this Parliament at the end of the year of the coming plan of those services which have been provided by indirect management. You vote against it. Therefore, Mr. Rueda, you present a Law on the guarantee of public services which is in contradiction with the current legislation but does not derogate from the current legislation. Therefore, we have at this moment, at the time that you approve this law – which, of course, will not count on our complicity – several regulations applied to the same area that clash with one another, are contradictory. Therefore, clear legal insecurity in the matter of public services. We'll see how you face it when you have to apply one or another precept, we'll see how you interpret the regulations, which always, always, is at the expense of public services and always in favour of private procurement. Private contracts that, on the other hand, find all kinds of advantages within this law. Private recruitment, the privatization of the few public services covered by this law if they do not find any kind of obstacle, no type of control, no type of citizen participation, no kind of forum that controls them, no part of Parliament, no economic memory to be controlled. So we're faced with a law of propaganda, a law that generates legal insecurity, and also a law that favors privatization of services, that niche that we've so often said they've found as an alternative to brick in times of economic crisis. But in addition, we find that in this law you have fled all those amendments that inspire citizen participation, citizen participation in different ways. In information, the amendments that give rise to the greatest information of the citizenry, even by telematic channels. But the actuals, the ones that work in other places, vets. Information through citizen control of proximity to public services. For example, public services which are directly provided to the public, which lack effective control mechanisms. They invade skills, Mr. Rueda. The truth in you is that the obsession with the invasion of competences in the local eido is certainly pernicious. They did so with the Local Administration Act, the reform of the local administration: Montoro's complicity to destroy the municipalities, to destroy the municipal powers so necessary to favor public services for citizenship. You will now go to the municipal elections, these municipal elections, to assume powers that you first destroyed with state legislation, and that you later accompanied, as if not, Mr. Rajoy's accomplices always in this Parliament. But now they're going, in addition, to regulate local services. They don't enter the Greek services, they don't enter health care, they don't enter education, they don't enter justice, they're expressly excluded by this law. However, they regulate local public services to control them, where you don't have any competition. The principle of local autonomy, constitutional principle, we say it over and over again...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u31	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u32	...and we will not tire of repeating it – finished, Madam President –. You constitute the maximum propaganda advocates of the Constitution, and you hurt the Constitution itself with every rule. Each of the articles in the Constitution is damaged by legislation, whether fundamental rights through "the law of bite", whether the powers through the Law of rationalization of the local administration, whether the rollers within the sphere of justice, whether education with the Wert Law, or university reforms such as the ones that are awakening strikes in this country today, strikes to which, of course, from this parliamentary group we join. We are therefore in the face of a propaganda operation, in which they have not even made an effort to try to bring it into line with the Public Employment Act that is entering Parliament, not even the effort. They don't bother you anymore or try to have the rigour of at least being consistent with themselves within a month.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u33	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u34	So it is obvious that we will not support this law and that our vote will continue to be against it. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u35	Thank you very much. For the Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs Prado del Río.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u36	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are debating the draft law on the quality of public services and good administration, a bill that entered the House after being adopted by the Board of Directors of October 2014. And after four months of presentation work -- which we included in January, for those who think that in January, we don't work, because we also work in January -- in this law, first of all, I wanted to thank the Nationalist Block Galego and the Alternative Galician Left for their consensus attitude in the papers. Regardless of the differences in ideology, which are many and are evident, for they have known above their partisan interests the interests of the Greeks and the Greeks, and where the law could be improved they were able to reach agreements. So I would like to congratulate you because in the paper we have reached an important consensus, because more than 30% of the law has been modified by the opposition groups, except for the Joint Group, that despite your speech, what you have just done now, for you have not tabled a single amendment. And I, the truth is, I'm a little surprised, because here he talked about a lot of things that could be changed in law. But the proper procedure for submitting your proposals would be amended, and – I insist – did not present any. He said that in 30% of the law we reached agreements, and we also have to add that 16% of the articulate had no amendments. It should be noted, therefore, that almost 50% of the standard has a consensus among the groups. I would particularly like to thank the predisposition of the Galician Nationalist Block for reaching agreements. Of the 34 amendments they tabled, one was accepted by this group, and other 10; therefore, the majority group incorporated one third of BNG's proposals. And, thanks to these agreements, the law improves the internal coordination mechanisms of the citizenship service, coordination with the People's Valedor, the conditions imposed on contractors, both for the use of public goods and for the enforcement of labour law. And I would also like to point out that in this law which has the title, on one hand, of good administration, as Mrs. Paz pointed out, we also incorporated, thanks to an agreement with the Galego Nationalist Block, a specific article on administrative efficiency obligations, which enshrines the burden reduction work of the Administration for citizens and businesses and elevates the rank of law the existence of the electronic headquarters of the Galician Union and the extension of the electronic notification system. Something that also concerns us all – I would advise you, Mrs. Martínez, that you have read the law – and Mrs. Paz has already said so, but we have reached an agreement with the Galician Nationalist Block accepting its amendment number 14. We are all concerned about the survival of our language, and in that sense we accept this amendment in which it was said that "the Greek will be the language of normal and preferential use in all activities related to the organization and provision of public services." I don't think the Galician Nationalist Block is suspicious of being a Spanish nationalist, as we just said in this gallery. Secondly, I would like to thank the spokesperson for the Alternative Gaga de Left her heel also during the negotiation. It's true that the number of amendments accepted to your group was small, but your approach is important. We have reached agreement on the procedure for the submission of suggestions and citizen complaints, setting specific deadlines and minimum content of the responses received by the administrations. And we also increase together the contents that should be published in the quality barometer. It's true that AGE presents 74 amendments, but 23 have a very specific content about the Transparency Act. And since in the next few days a specific transparency law will enter the House, we believe that this is the right place to discuss these amendments, those proposals. Another 23 amendments are the result of the abolition of articles, because they propose the creation of the Council of Citizenship, of which I shall speak. And they also present the rest of the amendments, which are 16, which are the ones that would have specific content about this legislation that we're dealing with. And finally, ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to point out – and lament – the attitude of the rapporteur of the Socialist Party of Galicia, since since the majority group made an important effort to reach agreements with the Socialist Party and it was not difficult, but impossible. They presented 60 amendments, and the People's Party accepted directly 8 and offered 22 compromise proposals. Well, of those 22, they only accepted 3, and therefore of the 19 remaining trade proposals, with the rest of the opposition groups, with the Nationalist Block of Galicia and the Alternative Left Galicia, we managed to deal with 12 of these 19. So I think it was reasonable for the People's Party to propose, because for the Galician Nationalist Bloc and the Left-Galga Alternative, although not for the Socialist Party. And that's why there are proposals from the Socialist Party, text proposed by the Socialist Party, which are incorporated into the norm, but despite the rapporteur from the Socialist Party. That is why I particularly want to thank the rest of the groups for their consensus. [[Applause]] The fact is that it is surprising that the Socialist Group says that it always has the hand to reach agreements and that it is because of the People's Party that no agreement is reached. This is a clear example that the People's Party has reached agreements with those who want to reach agreements, and does not agree with those who do not want to reach agreements, not even with their own proposals. [[Applause]] I think Mrs. Sestayo thought more about today's speech than for the benefit of the Greeks and the Greeks, she thought that a good amendment would not spoil you a headline. And that's why he didn't want to incorporate into the norm or even his own proposals. And so we attended Commission 1st, where we discussed the report, to something surprising, which was the following: when the amendments of the groups were voted on, the Left Galician Alternative and the Galician Nationalist Block asked for a separate vote of an amendment from the People's Party, and all the groups abstained; and then we voted together the amendments of the Block, AGE and the Socialist Party, and the Socialist Party abstained in the vote of 8 amendments of its own. And not only that, but that he asked separately later in the transactions the texts that were dealt with with the rest of the groups, to also abstain from that vote. So surprising, ladies and gentlemen, amazing! They don't tell us after they've got their hand held to reach agreements, because the truth is they don't prove it in the day after day. Well, from the amendments of the People's Party I wanted to explain briefly our approach. In Amendment No 3, we intend to improve the evaluation of a specific policy, such as the development cooperation policy, by grouping into a single collective body, and not into three, as it has so far been, the evaluators' powers in this field, that of cooperation. Secondly, I would also like to highlight our Amendment No 2, in which we propose the establishment of the Administrative Tribunal for Public Procurement, an autonomous body for the resolution of appeals submitted by bidders or contractors, instead of deriving them from a state body which is not familiar with this autonomous regulation, which we intend to make time, since in the last year, which was agreed with the State court, they were producing a lot of delays, and also saving costs both in shipments and in translation. As for the bill as a whole, I wanted to highlight two fundamental things about the project. First of all, which incorporates the evaluation as a mandatory phase of government activity, as it was in the electoral program of the People's Party; therefore, we are fulfilling a commitment to citizenship. With regard to the guarantee of the quality of public services, which Mrs Paz said she did not see that it had been guaranteed in the text of the rule, because, man!, the normative text introduces very important improvements to citizenship, such as the legal guarantee of a system of attention to modern citizenship and which includes all the technological modalities, the existence of a multiannual plan of inspection, evaluation and improvement of the quality of the services in which the staff auditor of the Board studies these services, draws conclusions and implements necessary measures to gain quality, the use of users' opinions... here was some rapporteur who said that we wanted to silence users. On the contrary, the complaints of the users will be published on the web and there will also be a semi-annual report, so we have agreed with the Galician Nationalist Block, which will be sent to the People's Valedor, those complaints of the service users. So I think the user is the protagonist and he's being given tools to guarantee the quality of public services. The use of users' opinion through demographic studies or through suggestions or even complaints to ensure that these evaluation processes are improved in the public services themselves, transparency and publicity of this process, the introduction of minimum quality standards for each service that allows the user to claim ownership if they are not met. And secondly, it must also be emphasized that the law we are going to pass today guarantees that the adjudication of a contract cannot be an empty check. A good execution must be as important as a good offer. Thus, the text first collects the maximum requirement for contractors who manage public services, not only in the process of adjudication of the contract, but also in the process of execution, introducing a number of penalties in the event of non-compliance, mainly in the field of work, something that has been said here. Indeed, for the first time in Galicia, contractors will be subject to penalties if they do not comply with labour law, and mainly in parental leave and maternity. And also the award and punishment of quality levels on the part of these lenders through, on the one hand, target payment and, on the other, taking into account assessments of services prior to calculating their solvency in future adjudication procedures. And if the law incorporates all these quality control systems, public service assessment and improved administration relationships, the question we ask ourselves is very simple. Why are you going to vote against? So the answer is also simple: because you don't want this law to be passed because you don't want to believe that there's no such deterioration in the quality of public services or that prejudice in indirect management. Ladies and gentlemen, vote in favour of this law if you really agree with that approach. You are constantly saying that there is a deterioration in the quality of public services, that there is a deterioration in the provision of public services. If that's true, with this law and with the mechanisms that establish this law, it's going to be detected and it's going to come to light. Mrs. Díaz, you say that the approval of this law will not change anything. So look, it's going to change a lot of things, because in general the way in which you formulate the provision of services from the Administration from which this law is passed, before you approve the regulatory standards of a service in Together, you're going to have to clearly define the scope of the services, the management mode, the rights and duties of users and the minimum quality standards. And before approving the bonds of a service contract, you're going to have to define these standards as well, the property responsibilities of the adjudicator, the penalties for not responding to the complaints of users and the indicators for which compliance will be assessed and the payments will be modulated according to the objectives met. You also spoke here that the law establishes itself as a supplement to the quality control of health, education and justice services. I've already explained to you in the previous debates that there are specific rules for this regulation. Both health care and education, and justice have their own quality assessment systems, inspector bodies or suggestion and complaint systems. Legislation, by the way, that has been approved by you. I don't know if you understand, therefore, your concern. We couldn't establish a direct application without going into collision with the powers of educational inspection or regulated health inspection in its sectoral legislation. And then they criticize us because we come into contradiction with other rules, something I'll talk about later. But if it wasn't clear enough, we proposed a transaction to make it even more obvious, which said: "This law will apply to the exercise of autonomous competences in the field of health, justice and education, except in the regulation in its specific legislation." And in the same line as I explained earlier, the Socialist Party refused to accept this transaction as well. You also pose the subject of indirect service management. See, the Alternative Left Galeg wants to delete all articles that refer to indirect management. And I've already told you, Mrs. Díaz, that by deleting the articles that control and favor the quality and control of indirect management by contractors, that management mode will not be deleted. Because, in addition, it is established in other laws. And I also remind Mrs. Sestayo that Lugo's commercial fire station, where your leader and chief, Mr. Besteiro, is managed by indirect management. If you have any doubts about it, I recommend...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u37	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u38	...who speaks to Mr. Besteiro and explains why that model is not another. And explain to Mr Besteiro, too, that they are constantly proposing in this Parliament the removal of the indirect management model. And also the Galego Nationalist Block rules with Mr. Besteiro in the Deputy of Place, and they also participated in that model of indirect management of Lugo firefighters. At the moment, nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u39	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Round of parliamentary groups to define themselves on amendments. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u40	Thank you, President. The Joint Group will support the amendments tabled to this law because, although the spokesperson of the People's Party says that some of the things I said could have been collected, were said by other groups and were not collected; therefore, that desire for consensus remains only in pure propaganda again. And I will accept and I will vote for these amendments because they intend to control the quality of public services that are privatized or that have private management and, in addition, compliance with contractual obligations by concessionary companies. Because they're looking for a justification for the need to privatize not just to privatize, to earn friends, as if they're doing. Because a good administration will never be a privatized administration; therefore, the announcement, the title of the law, has nothing to do with what the law collects in its development. In addition, they also insist on controlling the quality of employment, the contracts that are made to workers, the level of eventuality, the wages paid to them or the wages paid to them, that we will also talk about in this plenary, and that give rise to numerous strikes by companies that charge on time from the Administration, you strike for failing to meet your obligations with your workers and workers. Also because they struggle against subcontracting of services by concessionaires, because they promote participation, access and control by citizens of public services and their management. Because they promote Parliament's participation in all the development of the quality of public services and in the control of public services, something that this bill again denies. Because this bill denies the union participation that is claimed in the amendments. Because he calls for and demands more transparency in the appointment and salaries of directors and senior officials. Because the amendments aim to avoid the imposition of tariffs that end with the equality of citizens before the public administration. Because he excludes health, education and justice. We will vote in favour of amendments that seek a guarantee to answer to citizenship, to respond to citizenship, setting maximum deadlines for that response. Because they are against and claim that the Administration does not become the "cobracer of the frag" of the concessionaire companies without even collecting what would be the means to check whether the user or the concessionaire are right. Just by way of input, this bill gives the concessionary company reason against users, and it says it's going to charge the user very much above any other right. And by the way, Mrs Prado, the Joint Group has two Members. When this bill started we were in full change, change in where at this point in March we still have no solution to what our rights are and what they are not. So I don't know what you're talking about with 41 Members. He also believes that the members of the Group of the European People's Party do the same, but, as you will understand, we do read the laws. Who should read the law is you, Mrs. Paula, at least memorize the things you say, because if it is true that Amendment 14 of the BNG was accepted in Article 37.2.c) of the general statute of users; but it is also true that Amendment 4 of the AGE was rejected from collecting the use of the Greek in the Public Administration within the principles of this law. So you lie again and, therefore, you, of course, pass five peoples when you try to equate yourself with a mixed group of two people. But well, there you are. However, don't worry, because all the laws, from which the Mixed Group has been established, will have their approach by the Mixed Group. And if I couldn't do it in writing, it's because sometimes it's not much easier for this Parliament to participate in the Joint Group, because more than one committee and more than one law debate coincide on the same day and at the same time. It's not always easy. But I'm going to tell you one thing: if we vote against it is not precisely because the implementation of this bill is going to show that there is no deterioration in public services or there is no opposition to privatization. Mrs. Prado, I live more in reality and I live more in society and they don't think all the demonstrations against this deterioration of public services...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u41	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u42	...they don't exist and the press invents them, since the press is usually the advertising that favors you. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u43	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. For the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Paz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u44	Thank you, Mr. President. I announce that we will vote favourably on all the amendments that remain alive for this debate of the parliamentary groups, because we believe that, in most cases, even with nuances that may exist and that, in five minutes, it is impossible to analyse in detail, they also respond to those elements that, from the point of view of the Nationalist Galego bloc, continue to be more or less deficient in the content of this law. And as for the maintenance of our opposition to the adoption of this law for the reasons I have previously pointed out, related to the lack of instruments that guarantee quality and also the rights of users of public services, let me also mention Amendment No. 12 and Amendment No. 15 of the Nationalist Block Galego to Article 37, which is entitled "General Status of Users: Greek Charter of Public Services", where the People's Party, the majority group of this House, refused to include in a section the following questions: "In particular, in the case of basic public services, they will have the right" – citizenship, users – to access the provision of services without delay, delays or inclusions in waiting lists that involve diverting attention in an abusive and unjust way." A public service that takes too long, in an abusive and unjustifiable way, as it puts here, is to guarantee quality in providing that service? Ensuring appropriate funding. We have already mentioned that there can be no quality of public services without adequate funding. I believe that something we have discussed on many occasions in this Parliament is whether anyone can ensure that 3,000 less teachers can meet the same quality conditions to about a similar number of students. Impossible. So here's an example of the ability of a group of two to attend to the same work as a group of 41, and obviously things are like that. Do not be forced on a regular basis to satisfied cohabitations. In fact, in the law, in the same article, the possibility even to establish coke according to the prejudices they consider, in the case of private lenders, that is being inflicted on them. And we here are what we set up and that there are no co-sponsors and that the financing of public services, as we spoke in Amendment No. 2, is done through the taxes of citizenship in a progressive manner depending on income. And finally, in connection with a question which Mrs Prado raised, that we voted against when this law would allow us to show whether or not that deterioration of the public services we so speak about, look, we, of course, have nothing against – and indeed you have already stated it – that all the elements and the capacity of the citizen to file their complaints for various non-compliances are established. But, of course, what I have to tell you with total roundabout, is that citizenship, most people, the people who suffer from these cuts in health care, those people who break chairs above their possibilities, and that's why they can't be cared for in public health, these people don't need the instruments that are established in this law to prove and to come out in the light that there is a flagrant deterioration of public services. And in relation to indirect management – that you say we haven't just believed that it's not of the same quality as public services – we leave a question: if you believe that indirect management can resist comparison in quality parameters, social cost parameters, even cost parameters in relation to direct provision by the Administration, why didn't you accept the amendments made by the Nationalist Block of Galicia in the sense that there should be reports to justify the use of indirect management of public services? I repeat that we voted against this bill, that this becomes a law, because we believe that the paragraph or all those articles that theoretically should guarantee the quality of public services are unique and exclusively smoke...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u45	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u46	...and lack real content to guarantee public services. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u47	Thank you, Mrs. Paz. For the Parliamentary Group of the Left Gaga Alternative, Mrs. Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u48	Firstly, I announce that we shall vote in favour of the amendments made by the rest of the opposition groups. And, indeed, we are not going to say anything about them. Many of them do have the same spirit as those we formulated from the Alternative Left Galeg, but it's true that there's no material time to be able to explain each one. The first question is that it would be interesting if you explained at least why Article 1.3 of this standard literally says: "The fields of education, health and justice are denied by their own legislation." Let us say that it is substantial or unique of this standard in Galicia, because I insist that in the other rules of the state as a whole, this law of quality and evaluation – so to speak – of public services covers all matters related to public administration. So this shade would require, it fits, because a certain explanation of why it is intended to be done in this way. We sincerely believe that it is about putting obstacles to the substantial part of the welfare state. And I'm saying this, and I've already spoken before public health, but for example, one of the amendments that Alternative Left Galeg makes about transparency is directly stated that the degree of budgetary execution that it is in indirect management services is to say that it is privatized, because we could have knowledge of quite relevant things, as well as that 48% of the public health budget – that is, Sergas – is in private hands. And something like this happens in public education. And we sincerely believe that, if there is nothing to hide, the normal thing would be that the Galician Union would be explicit or transparent to all these realities in our country. But also, for example, why can't we know today with absolute transparency, the health waiting list? Why is it not possible for citizens and citizens to come telematically and observe what position they are waiting for from any type of intervention of whatever it is, surgical or other type? Why not? What's the reason to hide this? Why can't we make an exchange between citizenship and public management? I insist, they send, people send, they pay taxes for quality public services. Therefore, there is strong discrepancy in that question. Secondly, it is true that the Left-Galga Alternative proposes many amendments that have to do with indirect management, i.e. the privatization of services. We obviously call for suppression, because one of the principles we formulated in the first amendments, I said, is that public services have to be rejected by universality, freeness, quality and direct management. This is what we defend. And of course, here we are in ideological opposition to the People's Party, but really this rule is meant to privatize everything at all. The number of articles, of precepts, which are dedicated to regulating indirect management, is striking, isn't it? We also want to highlight something on this issue. They are absolutely radical, they are not conservative, they are absolutely economical in neoliberalism; that is, why do they insist on a failed economic strategy? The Court of Auditors has already illustrated with five examples that the privatization of services is poor, precarious services, is more expensive and not useful to meet the needs of the 21st century. However, you, the Galician People's Party – who have the ranking there – insist on privatizing absolutely all services. We do not share at all Article 38, which is entitled "Taxes and Constriction Road", and even incorporates as a public credit the defaults that may exist in public management, in the payments of them. Nor Article 50. Services are already underprivileged, and that the Galician Union is pushing for subcontracting services is that it's really a disaster. We know it's legal, but it's disastrous. It's not our social model for Galicia. And, of course, we don't understand why Amendment No 13, of Amendment No 13, of Alternative Left Galicia, which is entitled, in a new article, "From Transparency in Public Performance", in which we singularly regulate for a long time everything that must be transparent for the citizenship of Galicia, is not accepted by the People's Party. Why? If they have nothing to hide -- I insist -- let's light up and tapigraph them.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u49	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u50	Citizens and citizens have the right to know that their public resources are being invested. And finished as I started. This law does not incorporate anything new, and what is really a new bet for privatizing the madman – if I may – the public services of our country. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u51	Thank you, Mrs. Díaz. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Sestayo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u52	Thank you, President. The truth is, Mrs. Paula Prado, your handling capacity is infinite. But what can be expected – as is spoken so much by lawyers and lawyers of Santiago de Compostela – of a person who acts as a spokesperson when the Supreme Prosecutor of Galicia appears talking about corruption and acts as a spokesperson a person who is investigated for corruption by the Supreme Court itself of Justice of Galicia? I am certainly saying something that is believed and proven; therefore, that has called the attention of distinguished lawyers of this city. [[Applause]] Well, obviously you're starting to cut off some of the words and phrases of a socialist amendment, so the Socialist Party put forward a separate vote on the amendments to the Galician Nationalist Block in a transaction with the People's Party, which we finally see did not reach that agreement in the transactions with AGE and the Socialist Party, which we voted for. But the truth is, Mrs. Paula Prado, that her authoritarianism is that it overflows. It is beginning that the Socialist Party has to vote in favour of the text. You're on the campaign. You just forgot a topic, an argumentary: you forgot Andalusia today. You'll know why, because he's the only one left, Mrs. Prado, within the campaign argumentary of the People's Party. [[Applause]] Look, I'll tell you why you don't accept it. Look at the amendments that refuse: "The Council of Galicia shall establish the coordination mechanisms necessary to ensure that the objectives of the measures reflected in this law are compatible with the sectoral legislation of various areas of the Self-Government on education, health and justice." Rejected by the People's Party, Mrs. Prado. Amendment No. 4 of the Socialist Party, with participation: "The right to active participation by the public authorities in decision-making on evaluation shall be guaranteed." Page 6 of the presentation. You're lying, this is a reality. Therefore, rejected by the People's Party. But we have to congratulate this power party to congratulate ourselves on its propaganda policy. They pay him well, Mrs. Prado, but we have an alliance with citizenship, with public services and we will not allow their destruction. Amendment No 5 of the Socialist Party has such clear principles as transparency, speed – I know, Mr Tellado, that it bothers you, follow you on the subject of subsidies – continuous improvement, territorial balance, reconciliation of personal, family and work life. Of course they're very upset with these principles. Rejected by the People's Party. We'll follow and see the people's party's tone. Socialist Party Group, Amendment 6: Principles of legality – of legality, refuse – transparency, universality, citizen participation, continues to improve the use of methods to detect deficiencies and correct them. Rejected by the People's Party. The principle of maximum proximity of management to citizenship – by the way, of conformity with the European Charter of Local Self-Government, signed by Spain and of which you have sometimes made a gala, although you have not approved it, Mr Feijóo. Rejected by the People's Party. "To provide public services, public authorities will promote the necessary actions to avoid duplication, as well as unnecessary bureaucratic actions," rejected by the People's Party. "Markets of coordination and collaboration," rejected by the People's Party. "Promoting accessible language and the elimination of unnecessary administrative burdens," rejected by the People's Party. "The Administration shall establish mechanisms for simplifying administrative procedures", rejected by the People's Party. You're talking about citizens already, thanks to you, you can complain. They could already, they could, another thing is that you don't listen to them. We say, "Citizen-friendly formulas." Rejected. "Abilities that must not exceed 15 days." Rejected. "If they don't get an answer, they can go to the defense office of public service users to inform themselves of the reasons." Rejected. "Reports accompanied by economic memory", rejected. "Balance within the Galician Parliament," refused. "Report to the Galician Parliament on which services were performed with indirect management," refused. But you, Mrs. Paula Prado, must come here on an election campaign to say that the Socialist Party does not agree to agree with the People's Party. Obviously, we don't agree with the People's Party because we don't want to privatize public services. You will be so happy with that huge consensus that you have reached in this House, but I have just heard that all opposition groups are going to vote against this law. That is to say, your consensus, Mrs. Paula Prado, as always the consensus on the right, is with itself. That's the great consensus, that of the People's Party with that absolute majority that's fading, Mrs. Paula Prado, that's your consensus. And for example, he convinces the High Court of Justice and the new prosecutor. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u53	Thank you, Mrs. Sestayo. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u54	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, first of all, I wanted to refer to the Joint Group, because the creation of the Joint Group is fruit of the internal struggles of the Alternative Glaga de Left. And now it seems that the People's Party also has to blame the creation of the Joint Group and the problems they have to manage their work. I asked the mixed group lady what the rights of the mixed group are. [[Applause]] Well, the truth is, Mrs Martínez, they're in the Rules of Procedure. Read it, because sometimes they read it. When they're interested, they read it and they know it. In relation to indirect management, Mrs. Díaz, I've already told you in other debates. In Teo you rule, and in social services, home help has it through indirect management, they have externalized service. You explain why where they run it indirectly and here they come to say that the People's Party privatizes when it indirectly manages it. By the way, indirectly because of this, the Galician Social Services Act of 2008, when it ruled the Galician Nationalist Block and the Socialist Party. Mrs. Peace asked me about this, and I'm going to answer, as a good Welshman, with two questions: Why did you create the Seaga, Mrs. Peace? Why have you approved the Galician Social Services Act where the possibility of direct management and indirect management is foreseen in its articulate? Why? You answer, because that's what you don't want to answer, and now they mean that the People's Party privatizes when it uses indirect management, that you, where they rule, well that they use. So when they rule, they privatize; and when they don't govern, they mean they privatize others. Well, that's his philosophy, and that's how it goes. And besides, in this law, article 34 says that we have to justify the model, whether it's direct or indirect, we have to justify it. Until now, we didn't have to. As far as Mrs. Sestayo is concerned, the truth is, I'm not going into the mud she wants me to go in. Because he has just shown that he has no arguments to defend his proposal in law. And he just showed, with his intervention, that he didn't even read the law. [[Applause]] But it's not that I haven't come to Article 22, it's not that I haven't come to Article 1. Because he said the law invaded the powers of the local authorities. And I recommend that you read Article 1, which says, "The scope of application will be the autonomous public sector", is Article 1. And so we can go on, because it also says we don't accept vital amendments for her, as were those of the principle of coordination or proximity to citizens. Because, of course, that's in Article 4 – if you don't read 1 hardly 4 –. Because he says in the People's Party we're upset. But, look, Article 4 speaks of proximity to citizens, coordination and cooperation with other public administrations – Article 4 –. And also, when he talks about the incorporation of citizen participation, article 2, of course, is before the 4; but it's after the 1, that he doesn't read either. And Article 2 says, "Citizens and citizens will be entitled to participate in the assessment of the quality of public services." Of course, I can quote you more articles. The 20, of course, the 20, how we're going to talk about the 20 if we don't read the first one! The 20, of the studies on demand analysis and citizen satisfaction. The 24, of the obligations of the defence office of users to incorporate information obtained from citizens' suggestions and complaints into the Union's quality improvement plans. 47, well, 47 is already far away, about the obligation for citizens' complaints in indirect management services to affect the contractor's remuneration and even his solvency to file for future bids. I also told Mrs. Sestayo that there was legal insecurity and contradictions because the article that only allows indirect management when the service does not involve the exercise of authority conflicts with outsourced firefighters. Well, the Galician emergency system doesn't assign the exercise of authority to your staff, I want to believe you know, Mrs. Sestayo, because you've been rapporteur of the Galician emergency law, which establishes it. But, well, as you don't usually read the rules, I guess that doesn't read it either. I don't know if you abstained on your approval. And the accusation you just made here that I am totalitarian, that the People's Party are totalitarian because we want you to vote in favour of the law, is absolutely false. Because, look, we are asking you to vote in favour of your amendments, your proposals, of the text you say. We who vote for ours or not, then, look, we know we don't, that we don't count on your consensus. But, man, at least be consistent and vote on their own proposals, and if not, of course, the truth is that it's very difficult. [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]] He also said here that no law was repealed. Of course, I recommend you read the single derogation provision. There are a few. As far as transparency is concerned, the derogation you mentioned here is also provided for. So, Mrs. Sestayo... [[Applause]] She asked Mrs. Sestayo here what services this law regulated.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u55	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u56	All of you, Mrs. Sestayo, all of you, read the law, all of you. Yes, I'm done, Mr. President. Finished to say that Galicia is the first autonomous community that implements by law minimum standards of quality, which implements payment by objectives as a preferred modality. With this law, Junta may require contractors to comply with labour legislation with their workers and will penalize defaults, and even penalise contractors if they fail to pay attention to users' complaints. Ladies and gentlemen, this law ultimately opens the way for a more orderly, planned service provision with greater guarantees for citizens, for the Greeks and for the Greeks, which is with whom the People's Party has a pact and with whom the People's Party has the consensus, in the polls. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u57	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Debate taken into account by the G.P. People of Galicia, with a popular legislative initiative and citizen participation in the Galician Parliament
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u58	For the presentation of the bill Mr. Puy has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u59	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I have the honour to bring to this House a bill tabled by my group, by the People's Parliamentary Group, which has the title "Lei de initiative legislativa populaire e participación ciudad en Parliament". This law clearly has an objective, which is to perfect the instruments of our representative democracy, in this case the most successful democratic system of our hanging constitutional history, to open with this proposed new law channels of direct participation of citizenship in parliamentary work. The dichotomy between direct democracy and representative democracy is very old and recommendates at the beginning of the modern liberal state. After the British on their own, after the bourgeois revolution, they had passed the debate between direct democracy and representative democracy, clearly choosing to place parliament as a sovereign body in the centre of the constitutional political system, in continental Europe and the French Revolution, when this debate was diluted in an old controversy, by the way, that the authors, historians of constitutionalism, reflect in the debate between Rousseau – party of direct democratic tradition – and the tradition that Montesquieu represents with his vision of liberal and representative democracy, and which is summed up in Rousseau's famous phrase that the people's deputies are neither their representatives, but their commissioners, they cannot agree at all; every law not ratified in person by the people is null, it is not a law. There is a clear delegitimation of parliamentaryism and therefore a clear call to direct democracy. While Montesquieu – another quote that clearly reflects his thought – said that, in a free state, every man considered possessing a free soul must rule himself. But it would be necessary for the people in the body to play the legislative power and this is impossible in the big states. And since it is subject to a thousand drawbacks in the small ones, the people must perform by means of their representatives what they cannot do for themselves. Clearly, the representative's mandate involves a formal separation between representatives and representatives, leaving the discussion process and making parliamentary decisions the whole of citizenship. This old controversy, which belongs to the revolutionary stage, is essentially liquidated by the experience of Russian Robespierre, who has left so badly remembered that the French Republic itself since then has also defended representative democracy. And in the most theoretical field and with Kelsen, in the period between wars, in his 1920 book The essence and value of democracy, in which he proposes, among other things, forms of citizen participation in the formation of state public will – which is incorporated, among other things, into the Austrian Constitution of 1920 – appear forms of direct participation in parliament itself. This tradition that is later incorporated into other constitutions, such as the Spanish since 1931, that of the Republic, the Constitution of 1947 in Italy, also comes to our Constitution. Article 23 clearly establishes the right of citizens to participate in public affairs; 87.3 of the Constitution expressly collects the popular legislative initiative; and also the Galician Statute in 13.1 – as we know – collects what is the popular legislative initiative itself. In a context in which the constituent, in the area of the Transition, establishes a system of parliamentary democracy with limited concessions to the direct participation of citizens as a result, among other things, of the perverse use of the referendum in the immediate preceding stage, in the Franco-French dictatorship. In short, what we want is that, by maintaining – as Kelsen said – the central role of parliament in our democratic system, the place where commitments between the majority and the minority are permanently produced and where dialogue between the various political and social forces is held in that context, we also want to strengthen this representative democracy, not as a way of mitigating direct democracy, but just as a way of improving the representative system; never forget that direct and non-representative democracy already has a long tradition of failures that has even led – as Sartori mentions, without going further, in his analysis of democracy in ancient Greece – to the failure of the democratic system itself. And since we understand that it is a bill that is trying to benefit the House and the whole of citizenship as a complement to the normal functioning of the democratic system, I mean that we were surprised by some, that we followed the statements of the leaders of the various parliamentary groups, certain harmful comments that we have heard in recent days. First of all, because it is the majority group who proposes this initiative – and I insist that it is the majority group and not the Government who presents it – as well as its content. Fundamentally because a single text is presented which subsumes the various mechanisms of direct citizen participation of the already approved and recently reformed Law of Popular Legislative Initiative. A reform which arose at the initiative of a particular parliamentary group and which, precisely because it was a reform proposed, prevented it from presenting amendments to the question of the application of the principle of congruence; and which led us to consider an extension of the citizens' participation in parliamentary activities. So first, because it couldn't be done any other way; and, secondly, for technical reasons. It is clear that by a legislative technique for simplifying standards it is much better that all forms of participation in Parliament are in the same standard; that it also refers the mechanisms for validating signatures to the rule which was reformed here, and that it was precisely in the electronic field one of the main developments that were introduced in the recent reform of the Law on Popular Legislative Initiative. And, above all, on practical issues: citizenship has all the mechanisms of participation, legislative, control and even impulse, in one norm. It certainly was also said by some spokesman, some member of this House, in the last few days that representatives of the groups are already in constant contact with citizenship. And this is true of us, and of course, of the People's Parliamentary Group. Normally, without direct participation mechanisms in parliamentary activities, the process of public policy-making goes through a series of steps that in the end always have citizen control. So there is work to anticipate the needs and problems of citizenship representatives on the one hand, but on the other hand, there is also logically what is electoral correction as a result of election results. But it is still possible that in the development phases of the various public policies, which basically consist of, first, detecting the problem – which is called problematization –; secondly, the formulation of a policy that, thirdly, is legitimized by a parliamentary decision that is then executed by an executive and ultimately evaluated by the whole of citizenship, and, to the extent possible, also by control mechanisms that assess the outcome of the policies for solving the problem raised at the first stage of the process of public policy adoption. It is clear that there is a key point, which is that of formulation and legitimation, which is precisely where the proposed law we bring here today is involved, because first of all, we must remember that this Parliament is particularly receptive to citizens' initiatives in relation to the legislative field. I simply want to recall that in Congress of Deputies, in view of the constitutional forecast of popular legislative initiatives, since 1982 only three popular legislative initiatives have been approved, 3 out of 82 submitted since the Constitution was approved in Spain. In Galicia, only 12 were registered since 2009 and were discussed at this plenary session and 4 were approved. Which shows how important this instrument is in our political and autonomic system. It is to be understood that the Spanish Parliament is preparing a reform of the popular legislative initiative that involves the presence of the proponents in the Chamber itself – which we have in Galicia from the first day – but it is also clear that we can introduce improvements, given the evident propensity or the evident ability of the Greek society to bring laws here directly to open up other initiatives the capacity to participate in the work of this House. The novelties we present can be summarized in the following: First of all, with regard to the legislative procedure, what we bring about in this bill is the formalization of a procedure which is known as "Lexisla con nous", which refers to the direct participation of citizenship through the Parliament's website. I want to remember that there is a recent work of a professor at the University of Extremes Parliamentary information in the regional parliaments in Spain: evaluation of web sites and presence in the social media, who says that the website of the Galician Parliament is the sixth best of all autonomous parliaments, but, as far as information on legislative and control activity is concerned, it is the third best, with a score of 19 over 31 points, which was the maximum, versus the 15-24 measure, and it is also the first in search tools. I say this because Parliament already has the system installed, and it is therefore important to know, and thank the Bureau for the work it has done on this issue and for formalizing the mechanism of access to the entire legislative procedure. We do so, in addition, with a huge regard to citizenship, because citizenship can present its suggestions to its own standards, whether the Government – draft laws – or whether they are from this House itself – proposals – once parliamentary groups have already registered their amendments; with which, first, they can know whether their concern is already collected in the amendments or even if any amendment of a text they previously knew distorts, in some way, the meaning of the project initially registered. Therefore, enormously respectful of the participation of citizenship in a phase of the legislative procedure, which is once the groups have tabled their amendments, and before, therefore, the presentation makes its report for the commission, and therefore can incorporate comments from citizens, not only to the text, but also to the amendments submitted by the various groups. Secondly, we push – and we are the first Chamber of Spain to do this – what are the initiatives of impulse, through the proposal of not a law of popular initiative. This can be considered smaller; I think it's important. I believe that this has little background, as in the case of the Icelandic Parliament, where citizens could tell Members what issues they had to discuss. In this case, this initiative opens up this door for citizens to bring us an agenda to Parliament on issues that they want to move forward from the Government. Third, control questions. Other parliamentarians have already regulated this: Andalusian, canary. We're going in the same line of experience as we're doing in other autonomic assemblies. And finally, we have facilitated the right to petition also through the use of the computer media that the House has prepared in recent times. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, we present this with the best of intentions, in order to give our autonomous institutions the democratic momentum that the President declared and made in this House at the end of January; by the way, also the request of some opposition group, who had been asking for a leader by the President of the Union for time. And, of course, we always do so in the conviction that representative democracy and non-representative democracy are not incompatible, but always remembering, with Bobbio, that the second can effectively complete the first, but the first cannot be replaced by the second. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u60	Thank you very much, Mr. Puy. Round of parliamentary groups. Joint Group, Mrs Iglesias and Mrs Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u61	Good morning. Thank you very much, President. Hearing him speak to you seems that this law really responds to an intention that will bring as a result a reality of citizen participation, but what I know and what I have seen in this House regarding popular legislative initiatives because I strongly contradicted your speech. Today, 7 out of 10 citizens believe that people's legislative initiatives will be increased as a result of social movements during the crisis and the facilities that involve new technologies for mobilization. But this data contrasts with the fact that 64% of the citizenry believes that few popular legislative initiatives are presented because they are useless. Since Mr Rajoy governs only two popular legislative initiatives in the State have been admitted to the proceedings: which he sees and considers as good of cultural interest and the donation of payment, the elimination of defiance and social rent. The process of the latter has been as sad and shameful as a result of its rejection at the Congress of Deputies, due to the monolithic vote that the MPs have used to us. Spain's most recent history, which corresponds to the pseudo-democratic period, sets out what little case has been made of them and makes them to the popular legislative initiatives from the institutions, because, in addition, those who make the law do the trick. Of the 71 legislative initiatives registered during this period 28 have not even been admitted to the proceedings, 23 have expired, 8 have been rejected and only 5 have been taken into consideration. In Galicia, of 27 popular legislative initiatives – Mr Puy said before – in fact, only four have been adopted. It is also worth stressing that most of the subjects in which citizens want to intervene – for example, the worsening of penalties for certain crimes, in which they want to intervene 47.8%; the reform of the Constitution, which requires 47%; budgets or budgets, 39% –... but is excluded from Article 87.3 of the Constitution. This was the reason that 28 popular legislative initiatives were not admitted to the process at all. This bill, which is taken into consideration today if it is debated here, has its origin in an initiative taken by the Nationalist Block of Galicia and which has lost its essence because of all the amendments and modifications by the PP, which has this custom. The PP uses this sarcasm many times – with all its right, but, well, it's a sarcasm – it doesn't reject an initiative that can cost you prestige or votes. But, then, what does he do? It aligns it with ingredients other than original intentions in the form of motions or other parliamentary plots and presents it as its own, as a political achievement and consensus, which is not such, because they have, use and abuse the majority of parliament. On the other hand, they do not do the same with other popular legislative initiatives that have been through this Chamber, because I am very afraid that if they were aligned, they would assume an investment budget that the Government of the People's Party would not be willing to assume, for example, what happened to the popular legislative initiative that was going to improve public education. As you would like the PP to not need the votes of anyone – here in Galicia for now – because to approve or reject what seems to be absolute majority, this Member will not refuse or approve this initiative, it will be kept in expectation of what is happening with respect to popular legislative initiatives. Thank you very much. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u62	The institutions themselves must encourage the participation of citizenship, but this does not happen, the reality is that the Greek institutions have repeatedly become dams against the popular organization. We start from a representative model that has to radically change to actually enable a real democracy instead of a electoral democracy in which groups such as the People's Party serve the privileged minority of society go over the public interest repeatedly to benefit the private interest of a few, as we have just seen from the law we have just discussed on the quality of public services and good administration. It is very important to transform, even at the formal level, including the regulation of binding referendums, and the revocability of public charges. That's why we defend a constitutional process in Greek, instead the People's Party approves laws that criminalize protest or penalize the democratic exercise of the right to decide their future to the people of Catalonia. And they come to talk to us about citizen participation. The transition's political regime is over, and with this I don't mean its end is going to be automatic or without trauma. The social situation does not manage to allow the citizen the mirrorism of being able to bring proposals that then depend on the parliamentary roller that they have abused throughout this legislation. The Galician People's Party has no legitimacy to banner the defence of citizen participation, for several reasons: because they have recently diverted a popular legislative initiative endorsed by more than 40,000 signatures, that of the HULA; because a law of that transcendence, which regulates fundamental rights as is direct citizen participation, should emerge from a consensus of the whole parliamentary arch; because they are not even able to manage the plurality of this House, by hanging the rights of parliamentary groups, as they have just done with the BNG and AGE, excluding in this plenary to the BNG from the question to the president; and because you have closed Parliament to the people, treating citizens who intend to attend the full as alleged criminals – so it was, by citing the most recent case, the people affected by hepatitis C–. By this law, popular participation in the impulse and control of the Government depends on the majority of the Bureau of Parliament, from which, in this legislation, we have already had examples of arbitraryness and partyism in its decisions: "The Bureau of Parliament will speak on non-law proposals, questions to the Government of citizens' initiative, without recourse to those which it considers inappropriate. In addition, the non-law proposals and questions of initiative citizens who assume parliamentary groups will be charged to them, discounting them from their share of initiatives." For one thing, if the real will was to facilitate the access of citizenship to parliamentary institutions, the behaviour on the network should be very different. I am surprised that the People's Party welcomes the operation of the Parliament's website, because precisely I have the view that is totally contrary to that wonderful page. I don't know what that evaluation is or what the page position is considered to be. But really, when a person who is not a member of Parliament approaches this institution through the network, he already perceives that there is no desire to facilitate citizen participation. One example is that Parliament is not even worthy of replying to people who hang desperate messages on their wall on a social network; men and women, Germans and Greeks, who through the Parliament's website intend to address the Government with some consultation or suggestion and to those who are never answered. So there's a tool there, but totally useless. Again we see aesthetics, propaganda, advertising...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u63	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u64	...but not a real relationship with citizenship. Because citizen participation requires reciprocity. The institution must be above the parliamentary majority and meet the demands of citizens, and give above all true information to all citizens so that it can address institutions knowingly and claiming their interests. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u65	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. Parliamentary Group of the Galician Nationalist Block, Mr. Jorquera.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u66	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Group. Mr. Puy, honestly, I don't know if you'd get out of your way, because, as it was said in franchise, "there's no need to confuse freedom with libertine," and, with such a determined impulse to democratic participation, I don't know if this Parliament will end up becoming an excessively libertine space. [[Applause]] Look, however, jokes aside, you say in the exposition of reasons that bet on this proposal to strengthen the political centrality of our representative assembly, that is, of this Parliament. And since they're accompanying this bill from a series of background, let me also talk about background. I am betting on strengthening the political centrality of this Parliament after Mrs Carmen Adán was expelled in the last plenary session for merely seeking to exercise a right recognized in the Rules of Procedure. Yes, gentlemen, for merely seeking to exercise a right recognized in the Rules of Procedure. In fact, aware that they have committed illegality in this plenary, all groups can set positions in the interpellations for ten minutes. Look, they are betting for strengthening the political centrality of this Parliament when Mr Feijóo refuses by system to present the opposition groups' proposal, and when he instituted the control sessions, on the other hand: he asks the opposition and never answers what is asked. They are betting for strengthening the political centrality of this Parliament when they have kidnapped the Committee on the Boxes and even ban that it is possible to debate in this plenary the creation of an investigation commission for the English accident. They bet on strengthening the political centrality of this Parliament when they saw that even today we can debate a BNG bill for the transfer to Galicia of AP-9. They may be upset that in what we have been doing with legislation, they are discussing practically so many proposed laws of the BNG as legislative government projects and that the total lack of momentum of this government, which, to keep ourselves entertained, is now reforming their own laws, or perhaps vetoing that today we can debate the transfer of the AP-9 to Galicia for reasons like this. January 16, 2014: "The Board reiterates its demand to assume AP-9 despite the rejection of Ana Pastor." August 14, 2014: "Hernández sees as legally possible the transfer of AP-9 to Join in the face of the position of Ana Pastor." But after so many fireballs, the central government said no, the Galician Union loved it and now they don't want it to be debated so they don't have to faint and stand in evidence. In short, a whole metaphor of what the People's Party is doing with our self-government institutions. The Galician Union, reduced to a delegation of the Government of Madrid and this Parliament, kidnapped by the Government of Feijóo. But let's continue with the background, gentlemen. They bet on strengthening the political centrality of this Parliament after applying the Mordaza Law to the BNG so that I can't ask the president at this plenary. Look, ladies and gentlemen, the board of directors announced last Thursday a new law of transparency; pure propaganda to cover up that the government of the board does not comply with the current law of transparency. But while the Galician Board speaks of transparency and veto the creation of an investigation commission for the scandal of training courses, Mr. Feijóo continues without clarifying in this House his links with Mr. Pachi Lucas, with the great achievementor, now subject to judicial investigation, and apply the "Lei mordaza" in this House so that he does not have to answer in this House for the scandalous number of PP candidates charged by the alleged commission of corruption-related crimes. Look, and with all these backgrounds, what does the People's Group propose to us to promote citizen participation and that Parliament strengthen its political centrality? What we are proposing is that citizens should be able to promote non-law questions and proposals before this Parliament so that it will soon be the parliamentary groups that decide whether or not they will take their stand for parliamentary procedure. I imagine that the People's Group will know that many initiatives by parliamentary groups are the result of dialogue with social groups and are the result of demands that move us citizens. But if you do, what you propose does not even foresee that the initiatives promoted by citizens are necessarily debated in this House, because I am focusing on the novelties of this bill that refer to non-law proposals and questions. The law of popular legislative initiative has already been reformed and is already approved, and you don't even expect the initiatives promoted by citizens to be debated necessarily in this House, nor do you even consider that it is the promoters who take their stand. Your defense will depend on whether any group assumes them as if they were themselves; that is because of the cup of initiatives of that group, a coupon – it would miss more! – previously cut in the case of the BNG and also in the case of the AGE Parliamentary Group. What a bet so determined by democratic participation! That's why, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, I'm going back to the beginning: I don't know if you'd be freaking out. What a determined democratic impulse! With so much impulse, I don't know if they'll end up focusing. But look, gentlemen of the People's Party, stop fireworks. BNG presented in this House a battery of proposals to really encourage participation and you said no; they said not to a popular consultation law. We also introduced a law to give decisive impetus to the popular legislative initiative, and you initially accepted it, but then cut it in the parliamentary process, denaturalizing it. We have tabled an electoral law for this Parliament to really reflect the will expressed by citizens in the polls and we have tabled a proposal for a reform of the regulation which includes, inter alia, the creation of a commission of popular participation so that citizens and social groups can go directly to this House and move their proposals and reflections. Finally, we are betting for a reform of the Rules of Procedure to really revitalize this institution, not for a reform like you proposed to us, because, given that there have been explanations of what has happened in this Parliament that do not fit the truth, it has everybody to know that you have proposed a reform that consists of accepting cuts of rights as Members and as parliamentary groups, such as the right to intervene in interpellations, in exchange for you – generous – to open a little handshake in the cutting of initiatives that you are applying. And finally, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, to conclude, one last reflection. For there to be a democratic impulse and to encourage participation, the first thing to do is to allow citizens' representatives, without cutting plates, without bites.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u67	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u68	...they can fully carry out their work, because by violating the rights of honourable Members and parliamentarians, because by violating the rights of parliamentary groups, you are violating the rights of your representatives; they are violating the rights of citizens. For these reasons, gentlemen of the People's Group, because this proposal is fireworks, empty propaganda of content, the BNG will vote against this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u69	Thank you very much, Mr. Jorquera. Parliamentary Group of the Alternative Left Gallega, Mr Ramón Vázquez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u70	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good morning to all of you. Without a doubt, one of the most obvious samples of the crisis of legitimacy of this expired regime is its desperate and continuous attempt to whiten out its image of unjust and oppressive power, and do so by affecting measures of self-washing of a timocracy, as we actually live today. Because while laws such as the "Lei mordaza" are passed, while democracy is restricted in parliaments and the number of Members is meant to be reduced, while protesting in the street is criminalized, while it covers and protects corruption, while public services are dismantled and, therefore, citizenship rights are restricted, while, ultimately, citizens are reduced to the condition of subjects, since measures, initiatives of good practice, good government, laws of transparency, laws of participation, laws of beautiful name, without a doubt, but that, once revised, once they have been analysed, once they have seen their content, they do not bring anything new, and this is the case which we are dealing with today. It is ultimately about doing what Fioravanti said: making the purely essential changes, but, yes, always on the condition that these do not question the powers constituted. I welcome Mr. Puy's mention of Rousseau today, but I do not agree exactly that the debate must be centered today between direct democracy and participatory democracy. I believe that the debate is between constituent power and constituted power. This is the key to the problem. Because the PP, the People's Party, forgets that the Government, as a constituted power, is to say, as a legal construct just like the state, must meet the demands of the people, which is where the constituent power resides, because the people is a harmful entity; therefore, it is who conceives, say, the constituted power, the State, the Government and the institutions. In other words, it is the government that obeys and serves the people and not the other way around; the people who send them therefore to the Government. You reduce democracy to a mere illusion of consent: the people consent; but this is not participation. And that's why they understand participation as a gift from the established system, and that reduces democracy to the possibility of choosing in practice every four years. And that's why they approach participation as mere imposure, and so they do in this bill. You come to the absurdity of presenting an initiative on citizen participation without allowing citizenship to participate in its elaboration; an incredible contradiction. A proposal that has not been submitted to the consideration of the social fabric, which does not count on the proximity of civic organizations or neighboring groups; a law of participation which itself is the antithesis of participation. It's very curious! I saw that digital window of Parliament's website called Lexisla with us last night. And do you know how many of you came up with this bill? Zero, zero, zero opinions, zero collaborations. That's the point of the matter. The process of participation is also deliberative in its origin. But, in addition, we are faced with a very poor law that lacks democratic ambition; a proposal that is summed up in four titles: firstly, on popular legislative initiatives, which all it does is collect the amendment of the 1988 Law, which has already been passed in this Parliament, and which, therefore, aims to update the minimum number of signatures required. A second title on the possibility of citizens coming closer to the drafting of laws, something that already exists and the results I have just mentioned on Parliament's website. A third title on the possibility that the groups represented in Parliament take the non-law proposals put forward by citizens who reach 2,500 support firms, something which the opposition groups have already done repeatedly, without putting any kind of signature limit. And a fourth title on the possibility that citizens present questions to the Government, and we all know how to answer the questions this government, especially its president, are absolutely brilliant and enlightening answers. Nothing concrete, therefore, is just an institutionalized vision adapted to the functioning of a biased and fossilized parliament of participation. And don't take it as a contempt, I don't mean it, it's a parliament reduced to a simple democratic ritual, and that's what we attend session after session. What guarantees in this rule that a rule adopted in Parliament itself will be carried out and therefore implemented? Nothing at all. What ensures that a question is answered? Nothing at all. A law that omits, on the other hand, addressing, deepening and addressing truly fundamental issues; it does not approach mechanisms for articulating participatory autonomous budgets; for example, it is in money, in the economic issue, where economic participation is fundamental, because it is with resources that guarantee the rights of citizenship. It does not address the necessary popular consultations. How can issues of relevance to citizenship be changed without consultation, for example, on the issue of changing the language policy of our country without a popular consultation? It does not address public hearings so that persons of relevance or any citizen or any collective may appear in full or in commission, also participating in a representative capacity of the collective it represents. It does not address the participation of citizenship in the evaluation of public policies. What capacity does citizenship have to participate in that assessment? Today, in the amendments tabled to that so-called good government law, alternative Left Galeg proposed, that a citizen council should be created where the legislative amendments affecting citizenship were, of course, subject to consideration and the report. But there is no real intention that citizenship should participate from the base. This bill does not come into force to encourage measures to stop the promotion of participation; neither does it involve the participation of a declaration of intent. Participation does not take place in vacuum, citizenship needs training and information, and therefore channels that favor such participation. And participation needs awareness-raising, also awareness-raising campaigns. Participation requires support and accessibility measures. What capacity for participation does a citizen get up at 6:00 in the morning and arrive at his house at 12 in the evening, after a exhausting workday and a salary of misery? A little more than going to bed is what's left of him. It does not address the establishment of agreements with entities and institutions, it does not even address the creation of advisory bodies and technical support for participation. It doesn't approach anything because it's a mere statement of intent, a simple exercise of advertising and propaganda, which is what this government does. It is therefore understood that participation as an imposure that hides, that is, what is true democratic culture and participatory culture, which needs concrete and very well-defined actions. We all know what it means in a council to draw up a real regulation of citizen participation in contact with neighbouring tissue and what that implies, but that obviously overflows the intentions of this government. Therefore, a democracy without participation as we have today is a democratic illusion, or, if you prefer, it is an oligarchy burda, because it really is what this bill seeks: to continue allowing the elites to run the people without the people being able to participate in making decisions that really affect them. If this initiative picks up the idea that the People's Party of Democracy has, and therefore participation, it's a truly poor idea. Of course, this bill really doesn't bring anything in this matter, and not even...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u71	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u72	...that's what Hegel called "preventive social reformism"; it's more like a generalized coat of hair, which is what the People's Party usually does. I ended by celebrating, as I began, that Mr. Puy had mentioned Rousseau, but the really sad thing is that he is quoting Rousseau when what the People's Party is doing is breaking up, flying through the air, the minimum base of a defensive social contract, because what is being ruled against the needs and rights of citizenship. So they change their policies and govern the service of the people, they assume that you are simply the power constituted thanks and the right of the constituent power of the people; they serve the people, the people are the most orderly, and they stop making publicity and propaganda. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u73	Thank you, Mr. Vázquez. Socialist Group, Mr Méndez Romeo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u74	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Puy, when you started your parliament by inserting your modest and weak proposal – from which I will speak – into the long trunk of the history of parliamentaryism in the Western world we understand that there was some insecurity and an excess of ideology, because, Mr. Puy, the history of parliamentaryism from its origins to very advanced nineteenth century is also the history of exclusion, it is the history of the censored parliaments, it is the history of the exclusion of women, of modern assembly until 1870, so that one of the major sectors of the European population that felt absolutely excluded from this present representation, which were European workers, had agreed through the AIT the creation of working parties to compete in elections, something that would not be achieved in Germany until the end of the XIX and in Spain until 1909, a hundred years after the Courts of Cádiz, when, to proud of this country, a Spanish typographer, accedes for the first time as a labourer to the Courts, obviously founding, to the Churches. A Member, by the way, who will be alone, literally, in that still-present House. [[Applause]] And the women will not arrive, Mr. Puy, until the Second Republic allows Victoria Kent, Margarita Nelken and Clara Campoamor to access this House. And I don't have it in my memory now, but I'm sure you can consult it, when the first colored Member enters the American Parliament. And so on. So let's find out what we're talking about. What you bring here today is a norm, a draft rule, which, among other things, constitutes a frontal attack on Mostequie's thought, by mixing, by trampling, by deliberately waving down the competences set for this Parliament by the Galician Statute subject to law, and which you here today turn into a mixture of rule of participation, of violence over the House's regulation – of course, we do not understand very well how this was not subject to censorship or at least to warning by Parliament's legal assistance –. Mr. Puy, if this starts the reformist package of the Government and the People's Party, we have to say that we are faced with an empty and empty reform of content; it cheats because you come today with this rule to repeal a law of popular legislative initiative that was passed in this House just four months ago; a rule that you derogate today to virtually repeat ad demand letter in the text they propose to us. Do you believe, Mr. Puy, that there is nothing else in this House to make the continuous weaving and prodding of legislation characterize this government? Of course they believe it, because they have today used this rule to ban that the Socialist Party could incorporate on the agenda the presence of the President of the Union to account for the economic situation and that of the Health Adviser to account for the collapse of hospital emergencies. I know it's not new, I know it's been blocking for six years, vetoing, preventing, abstaining from most of your votes that you have in this House to compare who you owe and not just who you want, but this is the situation in which this rule is presented. Mr. Puy, in the rule that was adopted here four months ago, you, when you only adopted it with your votes, weren't you aware of their evasiveness? Did they notice that they had to add something else? Why do you present the same text to us today by adding a tail? I will not insist – because I understand that they are not interested – on the legal insecurity that you are causing. We are witnessing, in your legislative package, a continuous modification of your own texts, an eternal return which is quite well as a philosophical argument, but which constitutes an attack on the needs that exist in this country. You are preventing, when the country is stagnated economically and in a social crisis, with a generation of people who are being forced to emigrate, that the current issues are being dealt with here, and they are replacing us with these kinds of rules that have no content. Ladies and gentlemen, as if it's not enough advertising already enough and well paid! Today we read in a newspaper... well, they read citizens... because, of course, it was already known to what extent the Government's action is being replaced by government propaganda, with public money, through campaigns that have no more real content than the praise and adulation of who is part of the Galician Union, as if it had not enough to have any less than a public channel, the Galician Television, dedicated to distorting information, adulterating any information content and transforming it exclusively into a supportive body, supported, that's yes, with taxes paid by all citizens. Mr. Puy, are you really so incapable of innovating that you have to bring today a text that literally reproduces what was already in force? It's not the only case, you have just presented in this House a reform of the Road Law which constitutes a real amendment to all the legislative work of who was the adviser of Public Works and today the mayor of Santiago. From the back door they come to recognize what was said here in the processing of that rule. Now, installed in propaganda and in need of an appearance of modernity, you come to a trap, you come to a real trumpet l’oeil, because this law is called a popular legislative initiative. But it's been twenty-five years, Mr. Puy! And what they present as citizen participation, if it wasn't so irrelevant, we would have to denounce it as an attack on Parliament, because it seems what it isn't, it promises what it doesn't give, it looks like what actually vetoes. Of the four new articles, three apparently regulate new citizen participation channels, suggestions, proposals, etc.; channels of participation of citizens who will depend on the free will of parliamentary groups. Mr. Puy, that already exists. What do you do, change the name of the procedures now? Where is this about the citizens' initiative? You have a fear of the people who are outside this institution, which is most of society. Why do they prevent citizens from asking questions directly or complaints in parliamentary bodies, face-to-face with their representatives, because that is parliamentaryism, for example, in the Committee on Petitions? Why do they forbid the promoters of this that you call – what is the whole thing! – non-law proposals can defend them directly in Parliament? Why do they refuse to have a specific space for handling such initiatives? Why don't you allow the municipalities to process them with a qualified majority? You want people to be invisible, to be limited to signing papers and without guarantees about the procedure. Is it not easier to open the doors of Parliament and give direct voice and presence to citizens without intermediation? But what is Parliament more than the direct representation of citizens? You have to exercise face to face, not just by that delegation would vicarate you to propose. We are all aware of the new social demands, of the multiplicity of information channels that citizens use today, and you are very much in old practices. But, listen, Mr. Puy, isn't it Mr. President of the Board who just discovered the Ortega, no less than the Ortega, of 1914, who cried out against the old politics? And you're here trusting in old practices, practices where people aren't. A more current philosopher than Ortega, Habermas, in a very famous book, which also has a very eloquent title, problems of legitimization in late capitalism, already studies this matter.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u75	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u76	He explained how it is necessary today to strengthen the legitimacy of the institutions. And you want to replace it with the Parliamentary Register. The citizen who wants to bring something, which is present in the Register, and you will see what happens with his papers. Maximum distance possible. This reformist package, Mr. Puy, is hardly started with a text that defends people's alienation. This group has registered in the House a proposal for a regulation reform law; a proposal that tries to solve the problems known historically, the problems of removing the immediate reality...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u77	Finish, Mr. Méndez Romeo, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u78	...–Yes, Madam President, in an instant–, to gain in agility. And we do not present it as a closed and exclusive text, but with the desire that it be the basis for a broad parliamentary agreement that will enable citizens to be brought closer together. On our proposal you can build, on your proposal you can only disagree.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u79	Finish, Mr. Méndez Romeo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u80	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, you prefer exclusive rules, but be yours, to integrative rules which are also useful. It doesn't contain with us on this trip.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u81	Thank you, Mr. Méndez Romeo. Replica from the People's Group. Mr. Puy Fraga has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u82	Thank you very much, Madam President. I think all the opposition spokesmen have confused the procedure we are in, and some of them also confuse what representative democracy is. We are in the process of accepting the procedure, so if you think it's something you've never brought to this House... the Block presents a reform of the popular legislative initiative, it doesn't talk about popular LNPs or popular questions or about improving the right to petition. Now what happens is that we didn't bring everything they were supposed to have in their head but they didn't register and that that's why we couldn't amend. Well, then we're in the admission process, and you're talking about content that they've never brought up, which they've never even wanted to include in this House, which is to open up the initiatives of impulse and control to citizenship, and now the problem is that we bring it and it seems to bother them that we're the ones who take the initiative to open the House up to participation. Look, when you give them ten minutes to talk about how to open the House to citizenship and you tell me about the problem the Block has with your time, after this plenary brings more initiatives, by the way, than most, and they say we put the bite, which is obvious, every time Mr. Jorquera talks, that he doesn't have in his mouth. [[Applause]] Secondly, he speaks of the constituent process as one of the two representatives of the Joint Group – because they spoke both – two Members, two opinions, coming from a single parent group, which is the AGE Group. They spoke of the expulsion of a Member, the transfer of AP-9, training courses, the right to intervene in the interrogations and even the Road Law. [[Applause]] Well, it must be that the content of this law has little to add, when you're talking about it. The second confusion is about representative democracy. Representative democracy is that representatives, in constant contact with citizenship, are the ones who decide, thinking of the general interest. Look, 40,000 people out of respect for being and signing a popular legislative initiative, can't replace most of this House, and at least most of a House that has 654,000 votes to defend the interests of all citizens of Galicia...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u83	Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u84	...and to integrate general interests; a majority that, by the way, has 45.7 percent of the votes of the Greek citizenship, and we see others who are leaping with joy because it seems that with 35% they will reform and revolutionize the Spanish political system. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] These confusions about representative democracy also lead the AGE to confuse what is the constituent power with the constituted power. Probably because he was also thinking of a constituent model of the Welsh Republic, or something similar, like his former AGE companion. But the truth is that the political representation of this House makes you as much of the elite as any of us, and that you represent the citizens as we do, which is how best you know and understand; and it will be the citizens who judge that they represent them better and who defends them better. So far, certainly, we are very pleased with the result that we are going to obtain in the different elections. [[Applause]] The Socialist spokesperson introduced an extremely interesting debate, which is how representative democracy has been incorporating, from the beginning of census, the exclusion of women's votes, and let me remind you that precisely direct Swiss democracy was one of the last European democracies that until the 1970s did not allow women to vote, which is one of the perversions of referendum democracy, as evidenced by the fact that women were not voted in Switzerland until the 1970s, because men, who were those who voted in referendum, would not allow them to vote. Now, said this, I want to remember – because you mentioned it here, it seems that the PSOE did everything – that the female vote is, in the republic, against the vote and the opinion of many socialists who said that women were convinced by their confessors. And remind them that Campoamor was a representative of what you later called the black biennium of the republic, and that's what the female vote introduced. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Murmurs.]] Finally, I'd like to say... the socialist spokesman... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u85	Mrs. Hold on.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u86	The socialist spokesman says this proposal...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u87	Mrs. Hold on. [[Madam Acuña do Campo speaks words that are not perceived.]] You have a call to order, Mrs. Acuña.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u88	Time is running.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u89	Go on. Go on.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u90	The socialist spokesperson gave us an example of his reform of the regulation – which is, by the way, also after the processing of the block ILP – and it turns out that what they say about our text is that it is weak, it is irrelevant. They only say: "also to facilitate Parliament that in this Commission" – which is the Committee on Petitions – "it will be easier for citizens representative entities to ask questions to join together," the first initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u91	It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u92	And secondly, "the Greek citizenship, through associations representing their interests and duly registered, may submit to the General Register of Parliament and in writing amendments to the articulation of the proposals and bills; except those on matters excluded from popular legislative initiative." Ours is giving two thousand rounds to his proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u93	Thank you, Mr. Puy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u94	After all, they vote not for admission. [[Applause]] We are willing to accept amendments to improve participation...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u95	Mr. Puy, stop, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u96	...the city of this House. But what's obvious is that with this "no" what you're proving is that I'm the worst in the political caste, which you don't want...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u97	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u98	...that the citizenry should come to this House. [[Murmurs.]] Voting of legislative texts
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u99	Let us turn to the vote on the legislative texts. We started with the dictates and amendments to the draft law on the quality of public services and good administration. We started by voting on the amendments of the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group which were kept for the plenary. We vote. Voting G.P. amendments. of the Galego Nationalist Block kept to Ditame developed by Commission 1st, Institutional, General Administration, Justice and Interior, of the draft law guaranteeing the quality of public services and good administration. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 31; votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u100	We then vote on the amendments by the Parliamentary Group of the Gaga de Left Alternative. We vote. Voting G.P. amendments. of the Alternative Glaga de Left kept to Ditame drawn up by Commission 1st, Institutional, General Administration, Justice and Interior, of the draft law guaranteeing the quality of public services and good administration. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 31; votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u101	We voted for amendments by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia. We vote. Voting G.P. amendments. of the Socialists of Galicia maintained to the Ditame drawn up by Commission 1st, Institutional, General Administration, Justice and Interior, of the draft law guaranteeing the quality of public services and good administration. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 31; votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u102	Finally, we are voting on the Commission's Ditam. We vote. Voting of the Ditam of Commission 1st, Institutional, General Administration, Justice and Home Affairs, of the draft Law on the quality of public services and good administration. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 41; votes against, 31. The voting is positive. The Law on the Quality of Public Services and Good Administration is therefore approved.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u103	We then vote on the proposal for a People's Group Bill, popular legislative initiative and citizen participation in the Galician Parliament. We vote. Vote on the proposal for a G.P. law: Popular of Galicia, popular legislative initiative and citizen participation in the Galician Parliament. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 41; votes against, 30; abstentions, 1. The voting is positive. The proposal will therefore be adopted, which will continue its parliamentary procedure.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u104	We continue with the agenda with the point of appearance. Mr. Advocate of Fairy's Opinion, on his own request, to report on the general lines of action of his department Mr Van den Broek's opinion, at the request of all G.P. Members and Members. of the Galician Socialists, to report on the lines of action of his council
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u105	We proceed to your accumulated debate. You have the word, to formulate your appearance, Mr. Valeriano Martínez García, counselor of the Fairy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u106	Madam President. Good morning, gentlemen. I compare today, on my own request, to report on the general lines of the Business Council. My appearance in this House is taking place at a time when the Greek economy is already facing the beginning of recovery, after overcoming the greatest crisis in the history of Autonomy. A crisis that some have denied and that this Government has the responsibility and duty to manage. Half of the current legislation has passed, it's the right moment to balance the facts up to now and the important challenges that we have to face. Today we can say that the worst has already happened and that the measures taken at the time by the German Government have served to cope in a better position for a few years of maximum difficulty. Now it's about redouble work, but at the same time collecting the fruits of those decisions. It is essential, first of all, to recognize and value the important efforts that Galician citizens have made in recent years. We are not alien to the difficulties that many Greek families, our neighbors, our family or our friends, or our businesses have experienced; but the obligation of a responsible administration is to take action and make decisions when it is necessary, and always since the conviction that it is the right way. And that's what we did from the very first moment. The German Government and this Business Council have set a priority: to ensure the sustainability of public finances, because that was and remains the only way to guarantee basic services, to maintain the welfare state. My predecessors, Marta Fernández Curras and Elena Muñoz, chose a difficult path. but the right path. Today the results confirm that they have been successful, and that's why we are now able to say that the effort of all these years has been worth it and has not been in vain. Galicia has been able to keep basic services armoured and even expand and improve them, and to contribute to the maintenance of the Greek economy. Back in 2009, Galicia was a pioneer in taking steps to ensure our solvency; that is, our political autonomy, the ability to decide what to do, how to do it and when to do it. And for that, it was key to ensuring sound public finances. This is the key to achieving sustainable growth in the medium and long term. It was therefore necessary to review spending policies from the point of view of efficiency, to take measures to rationalise public spending, to reduce superfluous expenditure and to eliminate duplication. At the same time, structural reforms have been put into operation in the field of public administration with the objective of adapting it to the new reality and that it has been more dynamic, agile and efficient to improve the service of citizens. Galicia was a pioneer in approving a law of budgetary stability, when now virtually no one disputes their need. And she was also a pioneer in controlling the public deficit, when we're looking at the problems that go through those communities that chose not to act on time. Without falling into self-comprehensiveness, today we can say that the orientation, determination and measures taken have produced fruit. Galicia is one of the most self-sufficient autonomies since 2009, and I can confirm to them that we meet our goal in 2014, too, as will be checked in the coming dates, and that we will meet again in 2015. No doubt, the best service for citizens and civil society that a responsible administration can do is not to spend on our income. I already suggest that we maintain our fiscal consolidation agenda, gradually and without having to make abrupt decisions. We have also been pioneers in the control of public indebtedness, and the data also ratify the work done so far. In 2008, before we reached the Government, Galicia had more debt in terms of GDP than the average of the autonomous communities. Now, our debt is much lower than average, with a positive differential of 4 points, specifically 4.8 points, the biggest in our history, and slowing down our growth rate. While other communities have opted for a flight forward, increasing debt in an uncontrolled manner, Galicia has maintained a control policy based on indebtedness only what is necessary and essential to focus on gross fixed capital formation, which is what is done in a low-income scenario as strong as what we had to face. Others have decided to increase their debt as income rises, and those decisions are still paying them today. When it comes to delinquency – and more in this Parliament – it is appropriate to do so with rigour and without demagogy. When we arrived at the Government of Galicia, we had 4,259 million debt, and the bipartisan left another 2,2 billion debt corresponding to the negative liquidations of 2008 and 2009, the result, precisely, of bad budgeting and spending what was not. But the results are also there: Galicia is the second autonomy that has increased its debt less since 2008, and the Banco de España has just confirmed that in Galicia we are, of the fifteen autonomous communities of common regime, to which it has less increased its indebtedness last year. Galicia has decided to stay away from the average community and take a path of its own. Today we can say that, if we had followed the financial policy that was going on until 2009, Galicia would have EUR 2,500 million more debt. I insist: 2,500 million euros, that the next generation of Greeks will not have to return, because one cannot rule thinking only about the present, but also what they will come after us, and thus maintain a generational balance. Controlling deficits and debt has a positive impact on citizens' day to day. Let me give you an example: Galicia is paying its suppliers in an average time of twenty-one days, that is, a month before what half of communities do. There are only two common regime communities that do so in less time than Galicia. There is no need to remember how important it is for an administration to pay in time, form and as soon as possible for companies, many of them, in order not to condition their financing and viability and even to get better offers for their own administration. This is possible because you have sound and solvent accounts, something that you can't say all of your autonomy, and it's also possible for the reforms made by the Board to modernize and transpare the billing system of an administration such as that of the Board, which every month processes thousands of bills. Precisely, I want to point out that Galicia has been a pioneer in implementing the electronic billing system, which speeds up all the procedures, improves the procedure and saves business costs. All the boards and seventy-two entities in the autonomic public sector, including Sergas, with their integrated management areas, and the three universities, are already incorporated into the system. On recent dates the Register and the General Invoice Point came into operation, being Galicia's first government administration to launch this service. More than 7,000 suppliers use the billing system, and in the first quarter of 2015 we will process more bills than in the whole year 2014. For the rest of the legislation, all educational centres will be incorporated into the system and the necessary actions will be carried out so that entities in the autonomous public sector can issue invoices electronically. But our goal is also to reduce unnecessary expenditure, as we have been doing since 2009. A good example is in the rationalization plans of our real estate. Thanks to this plan, the Galician Union has saved millions of euros in recent years, by reducing spending on unnecessary rents, by taking advantage of our own assets and by renegotiating existing contracts. I'm telling you, we're going to follow the same path and we're looking forward to improving the results. Throughout this 2015 and 2016 we will continue in this work, with the objective that at the end of the legislation we will reach an annual savings of nearly 5 million euros for what was spent in 2009. It's EUR 5 million every year that you can now spend on other priorities, and it's an example of optimizing the use of our heritage. As I've already made progress at the beginning of my intervention, Galicia is now at the beginning of economic recovery. The data disseminated by the Galego Institute of Statistics confirms our goal when we start this legislation. Galicia has already left the recession and ended in 2014 with positive rates in the German GDP. Just as we do not deny the crisis, we do not deny that the growth of the Greek economy is still mild, of 0.4, but it is worth remembering that it is the best result of our economy since 2010. And now we've focused all our efforts on 2015 being the year in which growth and job creation are strengthened. It is no coincidence that the consolidation of economic recovery coincides in time with the recovery of our income. Galicia was the first autonomous community to adopt its budgets in Parliament by 2015. And, for the first time since the start of the crisis, it's a few accounts that grow to 45 million more euros. But it is still a priority for the improvement of macroeconomics to move to families and businesses. Some indicators show that we're going the right way. Galicia has 22,000 unemployed less than a year ago, a drop in unemployment by more than 8% over the last 12 months. And membership of Social Security has increased by nearly 15,000 people, of whom about 4,500 have found employment in the last month; a month of February in which, by the way, indefinite recruitment has increased by 16% over the same month in 2014. These are data that reaffirm us in the work developed so far and in the need to improve the policies implemented, because they allow us to have a better behavior than the average during the crisis, and they are also the ones that will serve for this 2015 to strengthen the growth of the Greek economy with solid and uncertaintyless bases. We estimate that this 2015 will grow by 2% and, for the first time since the start of the crisis, we will have a net job creation. It is a prudent, realistic and ambitious forecast, which is not alien to the Spanish, European and world-wide environment. One of the consequences of the solvency that has reached Galicia in recent years is the important improvement in our funding. This improvement will take one more step in this 2015 with access to the new financial facility mechanism that the Central Government has reserved only for autonomous fulfilling communities. This mechanism responds to the demands I came to make to Junta, because we always defend that the Government had to help communities with financial problems, but this could not be done at the expense of penalizing those who reduce their deficit, control their debt and pay their suppliers swiftly. This second group has been and is Galicia, and we hope that it will continue to be in the future, that Galicia will remain a reliable, credible, balanced community and that it will bring solvency to the rest of the state. The new financial facility mechanism meets our expectations. Galicia will continue to maintain its financial autonomy, the same as other communities lost years ago, and at the same time we will achieve a reduction in funding costs, and consequently a budget savings. I remind you Galicia is going to save about 100 million euros in 2015. The community, therefore, does not lose any kind of decision-making power over its budgetary spending policy, and will continue to manage its treasury, and at the same time will not have to subject itself to any additional supervision by the Ministry of Business. It is necessary to clarify that this mechanism is fully voluntary, both in its accession and in its exit, the difference, for example, from the Autonomic Liquidity Fund or from its payment fund to suppliers. Galicia has decided to attend because it is a beneficial option for the community and for the Greeks, and Galicia can either remain or leave the mechanisms taking into account the circumstances of the financial markets at every particular time and the conditions offered by the fund. We will, as always, do whatever is most beneficial to Galicia. Make it clear, ladies and gentlemen, the advantages that Galicia enjoys for fulfilling its objectives. And I would like to point out that in financial policy it will continue to reduce financial costs through the orderly structuring of the debt and the potential financing of investments with the European Investment Bank, due to the excellent financial conditions they offer us. But we will also continue to adapt the cost of our treasury operations to the current market situation, under the principle of financial prudence, by reducing the rate of interest applicable. In the wake of fiscal policy, it is worth remembering what I called for the creation of the Galicia Tax Agency in January 2013. I remind you that this was an old aspiration, that it came from far away, but that it was this government that put it in motion. The first thing I want to point out is that the vast majority of the Greeks comply with their tax obligations. This is not a free statement, there is a fact that confirms it: about 90% of the self-liquidations presented by the Greek contributors are correct; that is, 9 out of every 10 Greeks comply with their obligations and contribute decisively to maintaining our welfare state. But it is an obligation for any responsible administration to fight tax fraud, because there is no greater fiscal justice than to get all taxpayers to comply with their obligations, and to facilitate that compliance through the mechanisms available to the Council of Galicia. Today we can say that we are fulfilling those two objectives. In its first year of operation, in 2013, the Galician Tax Agency increased more than 150 million undeclared debt. In 2014 we carried out a special control plan that allowed us to detect 50 million euros. At this point, we are about to close the 2014 global balance sheet, but I can move on to improve the results of the fight against tax fraud than I previously commented on in 2013, those 150 million euros. In this same line, next April, we will publish the III Annual Tax Control Plan, setting out the basic lines of action for this new period 2015. But Junta is also facilitating compliance with tax obligations. The proof of this is that in recent years we have increased the award of loans and fractions to reach a total amount of EUR 141 million since 2009. This enables families and businesses to provide liquidity in order to meet their obligations with less difficulty. This line also fits the tax policy developed by Junta since 2009, a tax policy based on compatibility of selective tax reductions and the introduction of tax benefits by increasing the tax burden on those who have the most. I've already told you that we will continue to work on this line in the coming years. In 2015, the total amount of tax benefits in Galicia amounts to EUR 321 million, of which 90% have a social character. In addition, tax benefits directly related to taxes amount to EUR 142 million and benefit from 187,000. In this point it is important to highlight the fiscal developments approved for this year and which deepen the progressivity and objectives mentioned above. For example, we introduced more tax deductions to promote birth, which make Galicia into the community with more tax aid in this area. And we also approve the full refund of oil tax to the professional transport sector, to increase the competitiveness of our carriers by reducing their costs. In order to bring citizens closer to and facilitate their services to the Tax Agency, we launched the Virtual Tax Office, which at the same time serves to improve Agency productivity and raise transparency towards the taxpayer. Currently, 100% of the taxes managed by the Agency can be filed via the telematics channel. At the end of 2014 it was found that 64.9 % of the proceedings were conducted telematically, and the goal for the end of the legislation is to exceed 75%. To bring the services closer to citizens, we will launch a new initiative aimed at universalizing the use of information technologies: the Atriga portal 24 hours. In this portal, services will be geared towards the needs of citizens and businesses, through agile and user-friendly procedures, without transferring the technological complexity of their management. Thus, citizens and companies will have a custom space to track down files that are open with the Tax Agency. Allow me now to address the challenges ahead of the Business Council in key to the near future, medium-term. The immediateest is undoubtedly the development of the new Strategic Plan of Galicia for the period 2015-2020. I can point out that in the first half of the year we will present this plan, with the aim of further developing a global economic planning, consistent with the European Union's strategy, and of improving the effectiveness and efficiency of autonomous administration policies, with special attention to social services and the demographic challenge. The strategic plan is the instrument that sets the ultimate purpose of government acts, needs, generates and sets priorities, guiding and providing coherence on the set of activities that the Union will develop in the medium term. This plan will be framed in a multi-year financial framework that gives it consistency and realism and, even so, will collect the new programming of European funds for the period 14-20, presented last summer and, apart from Feder, being negotiated and approved by the European Commission. The Autonomous Community needs a medium-term plan that indicates what our vision of Galicia is in 2020, based realistically on the current situation, which serves to coordinate the actions of different public administrations in the Autonomous Community and which gives strategic coherence to everyday actions and helps to prioritize them in the face of day-to-day emergencies. To this end we did not start from zero, but the Strategic Plan 2010-2014, with the prospect of 2020, had already set up an autonomous agenda based on the European Union's strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, which covers a period up to 2020. It set as a general objective for the economic policy of the Union to occupy a place within the European Union as a fully integrated region in a model of sustainable, coherent and knowledge-based growth, in order to contribute to the strengthening of Community development policies in an active manner, especially in the areas of cohesion policy. In spite of the above-mentioned objective, the economic recession of the period 2009-2013 and the closure of the new framework for structural funds and Union investment, it is appropriate to reformulate some of the strategic objectives and their prioritization, using a substantially different multi-annual financial scenario as a basis due to the evolution of non-financial expenditure, but also qualitative, taking into account the increase in the weight of social policies, in relation to the scenario taken into account for the strategic plan that is now over. The 2015-2020 Strategic Plan will begin from a vision of Galicia in 2020 on a moderate but sustained growth path, based on the development of a new growth model, which will have as a strong point of view innovation and knowledge, which allows to create jobs in greater content and quality than those that allowed pre-crisis dynamics. We are perfectly aware of the difficulty involved in betting for a new model of growth, which will entail a difficult path in which Galicia should find its place, based on its intelligent regional specialization, identifying high value added activities that offer better opportunities to increase our competitiveness and generate new jobs and increase our wealth without giving up in achieving a more just, coherent and inclusive society. To that end, R & D and innovation resources must achieve a critical mass and be accompanied by measures dedicated to improving skills, education levels and knowledge infrastructure. The advanced strategy of smart specialization in Galicia is a basic part of European funding programming and operates as a vertebrate element of the whole plan of what I'm talking about, which in turn fits into the general government strategy and the financial structure of the Community. As a corollary, an impact must be achieved on the positive evolution of the demographic balance, which allows us to look forward with optimism. This vision of the 2020 Galicia will be crafted around four axes, where all the multi-year action lines that the plan will collect can be grouped together. A first axis, centered on usability and smart growth, in line with the already planned RIS3 strategy. A second axis, focused on welfare and social cohesion. A third axis, where sustainability, the environment and the territory will prevail. And a fourth axis, about the information society and culture. In addition, an instrumental axis will be collected that reaches an administration which must be a prominent vehicle to achieve the objectives of the previous axes, based on the orientation to the service of citizens, transparent, and the achievement of results. The strategic plan will be based on a multi-year financial scenario consistent with budgetary stability standards and the expenditure rule. The resulting financial availability will be assigned to the indicated axes through a process from top to bottom which will allow grouping on each axis into action priorities and these into more than 100 strategic targets. Strategic targets are measured through performance indicators and determined by a thorough diagnostic analysis. The lines of action shall be annual and shall also have productivity indicators to assess compliance. All of this through an open participatory procedure through the Council website, where you will be publishing the different programming documents and will enable a mailbox to receive suggestions. In addition, and regardless of the daily informal and formal consultations with the main sectoral agents and social representatives, once the plan has been completed, the plan will formally be transferred to its assessment. The plan does not end with its presentation and the arrival of interested agents. The results and productivity indicators collected shall be measured at the end of each year and each manager shall draw up a report bearing in mind its compliance. For all this, the strategic plan in the center is a first stone of a new model of self-management management, which revolves around results, of which the first annual milestone will be the budgets, and the last one, the management report, in which it will be reported of the values achieved by the main indicators of its performance. As I said earlier, the plan is integrating the strategic lines of action defined in the operational programmes which are being approved by the European Commission. In this way, the connection and integration of cohesion policy and the rest of Community 14-20 policies are guaranteed with the strategy set out in the strategic plan. Last December the European Commission approved the partnership agreement of the Kingdom of Spain establishing investment priorities and how they respond to the specific recommendations made to the Member State within the framework of the European Semester and throughout the objectives of the 2020 strategies. The development of this agreement has included the active participation of our autonomous community and is the basis for the programming of funds. Galicia is applying the security network. We have a co-financing rate of 80%, with conditions for thematic concentration of less demanding funds than in other regions. It should be noted that the safety net has been able to be expanded to 90% of the European funds on those of the 2007-2013 framework. In Galicia, for regional and multi-regional operational programmes, the financial allocation in terms of aid exceeds EUR 4,070 million. The Autonomous Community will directly manage €2.506.2 million in ERDF operational programmes, with €883.4 million; ESF, with €313.1 million; Youth Initiative, €48.9 million; EAFRD, €89.8 million; and FEMP, €371 million. On the other hand, the General Administration of the State will manage EUR 1,565.5 million, highlighting by its magnitude the operational programmes of sustainable growth, smart growth and employment, training and education. The Feder and ESF operational programs also match the actions, plans and strategies that will be developed in Galicia in the different areas on which these funds intervene, so that operations carried out in co-financed Galicia are integrated into thematic strategies in the medium term. In this context, in order to maximize the impact of the funds, Community programming consolidates its strategic nature in this period and until 2020, focusing investment on a few priorities, the fundamentals for growth and employment, in which we have already been working from the Union through our regional strategy. In developing programming 14-20 we have applied the thematic concentration in coordination with State interventions, while maintaining consistency with the needs identified in the economic and territorial diagnosis. So more than 60% of funding goes to four axes in the first thematic objectives of the regulations, namely, innovation and R & D support measures, the Digital Agenda, the competitiveness of pemes and the transition to a low carbon economy. Galicia was one of the first autonomous communities to have approved its ERDF operational programme by the European Commission, and will hold the first follow-up committee on 30 March, from which the new European funds will begin to be managed. In the case of the ESF, the programme was forwarded to the Commission last July, meeting the deadlines laid down in the regulations, and is currently under review. But there is also an important challenge with regard to the execution of all the European funds allocated to the Autonomous Community in the period 2007-2013. We must speed up budgetary execution, and we will enable mechanisms to prioritize the execution of processing and payment of appropriations co-financed with European funds under the 2007-2013 framework. For this, there will be a global implication across the board, to speed up the priority payments and provide for the accounts of the last quarter of 2015, for both Feder and ESF, EAFRD, FEP and POCEP. Between September 2015 and April 2016, the closure of this framework 2007-2013 will be planned and all actions will be carried out to ensure that all co-financed projects are in operation at the date of submission of the closing documents – in March 2017. At the same time as ensuring the execution of all of these funds and preparing for closure, we raised the need for the implementation of management and control systems for the new programming period 2014-2020. The new programming period is characterized, as noted above, by a marked approach to results. We need to improve the continuous and systematic monitoring and evaluation system of the execution of operating programs through indicators, along with a prior analysis of the levitability of all actions to be performed. A fundamental novelty in the management and control system in the new framework 14-20 is the obligation to conduct an assessment of the risk of fraud and the implementation of effective and proportionate systems. With the aim of reducing administrative burdens for beneficiaries and the Administration, we will boost the use of simplified costs, along with the use of financial instruments to enable us to achieve a transition from the concept of full-time grants to a conception of repayable aid. Ladies and gentlemen, efficient management of our resources and rigorous planning is not possible without the best professionals in our administration. That's why I want to take advantage of my presence to value the work of all employees and public employees; I am undoubtedly the most valuable asset this administration has. Since we got to the government, a priority has been precisely to maintain and improve public employment. Today we can say that this goal is also being met, and that Galicia has managed to maintain practically stable the number of troops since the start of the crisis, while other communities have had no choice but to take drastic measures, make layoffs and reduce thousands of jobs. The first step I want to highlight on this issue is the Galician Public Employment Bill, which is currently being dealt with in this House. As I've been working on them a few days ago in this Chamber, it's a bill that will change the current administration model to become a 21st century administration: modern, efficient and the service of citizens. The law introduces important news. It establishes, on the one hand, a single, stable and flexible framework for all administrations, and implements the professional career of civil servants and their evaluation of their performance, to promote their professional recognition. It also regulates the working staff functionalization processes that perform functions or performs official positions. Change the supply system of more than five hundred heads of service, which will cease to be provided by the free designation system and will be selected by means of a specific public summons competition. And, lastly – as most prominent – bet on promoting equality and e-government. As I have already stated, the workers at the board have made an important effort in recent years. It's time to give them back those efforts. For that, and in this law, we have created a specific fund which will collect, for a maximum period of three years, the appropriations needed to complete the reintegration of adjusted wages in 2012. In 2015 we will spend 51 million euros to make effective the return of 25% of the extra in 2012. But this fund will also, on a consolidated basis, finance the replacement of the two additional payments from the specific supplement. In addition, in the law we eliminate the excess of high office. This pay supplement will disappear from our legal order, so Galicia will be the first community to suppress it by law. Once the Public Employment Act enters into force, it should begin to develop regularly. It can be announced that, within six to nine months of its entry into force, at least two standards of development of this law will be developed, in particular the provision and selection decree, which will replace the old 1991 standard, and the decree that develops the legal regime of the executive staff. Another of the areas in which we will continue to work in the coming months is the right to mobility that public employees have. The figures confirm the important effort made, offering about 7,000 squares in transfer contests. Thanks to that, 3,624 people have access to a new square that better adapts to their personal or professional circumstances and preferences. We are currently working on the development of a computer app that guarantees the standing competition, so the mobility possibilities will increase for all public employees. And I can also point out to you that we are going to call the general administration contest, the veterinary competition also before the end of the year, the special administration contest and, as long as negotiations with the unions are underway, we will also call the workers' contest. To finish, we need to remember the public job offer of the Galician Board for this year, which has been the most important since 2009. We will offer 1,163 squares in health, education and general administration, multiplying by four squares in the previous year. Ladies and gentlemen, I have just finished, reiterating that the aim of this second part of the legislation must be to consolidate the improvement of our economy and the creation of employment. This is our highest priority, where we will focus all our efforts. Galicia has already moved from stability to growth. That's why we have a duty to face a new challenge. Now that economic recovery is a fact, it's time to work for that growth to be sustainable in time. To achieve this goal, we will sink into the line of work followed so far; we will continue to work for budgetary stability, with maximum efficiency and bringing about solvency; we will continue to maintain our financial autonomy, make our own decisions; we will continue to modernise the Administration and improve public employment, with a pioneering law adapted to new times; we will continue to effectively implement Community funds and set priorities for the new Community framework; and we will adopt a strategic plan that will set the future challenges for Galicia in 2020. We are aware of the efforts made in recent years, efforts that have allowed us to leave behind a phase of recession and start the eager economic recovery. I hope that the Government and the parliamentary groups of this House, with their comings and their responsibilities, will work in the same direction and with the same objective: to consolidate economic growth and employment and to lay the foundations for this growth to be sustainable over time. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u107	Thank you, Counselor of Fairy. Round of parliamentary groups. Joint Parliamentary Group. Mrs. Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u108	Good morning, Counselor. The truth is that I personally didn't expect anything else, but, well, it's always disappointing to hear a continuous message from the policies that have been taken so far by the Galician Union and that have put us in the situation in which we are today, of unemployment, of unbearable debt and of a truly dramatic social and economic situation. You have missed a great opportunity to announce a change of course, a change of course that ends the policy of cuts, which bets by activating the productive economy instead of what has been done so far, and to end the rise of taxes, devoted exclusively to paying the debt to financial speculators and maintaining in a tax paradise the great fortunes and oligopolies. But to hope that the People's Party rectifies is too much optimism. To think that the People's Party can rectify its austerity policies in favour of the citizenship that voted them is a fantasy. The fiscal and budgetary policy they practice has already spoken enough in this plenary and this chamber. On the occasion of the budget debate, we are talking about the return tax that is being applied, the progressive economic contraction of the country, especially sound in the cuts in public services and an economic policy serving speculators and oligopolies; an economic policy that, in addition to socially unfair, has served to favor the businesses of the dangerous friendships of President Núñez Feijóo, such as Martial Dorado or Pachi Lucas. The sad thing is to see that, as occurred in the importance of the Education Council, attendance is limited to a purely protocolary act, reaffirmation and electoral announcements. A plan to inspect large fortunes and large businesses would have been very good if it had been included as one of the objectives for its counseling. A tax reform that went up, although it was just a little bit, we pulled them higher than the IRPF. A tax reform which revises the scandalous taxes applied in heritage transmissions, despite judgments which repeatedly declare them abusive and null. Following optimism, you could also expect them to put the Galician Tax Agency in the fight against corruption, although it was only following the tracks that the Board of Auditors pointed to in its report. The Tributary Agency's own technicians say they don't have the means to pursue great corruption, but they do have the means to pursue the petty thefts, do they? – as it was said – but not for big corrupts and big frauds. I hope and hope that all this activity against fraud is not limited to pursuing – as they are doing – unemployed people who work and do not declare the scarce, small and poor, poor, benefits that they can get and that they don't even give them to live practically. You pursue the unemployed rather than pursue the great swindlers. Justify the privatizing and austerity policy that has been taken so far is what you came to do here today. We could define the economic policy of the Government of Nuñez Feijóo as the annihilation of the weakest citizenship, of the sick people who refuse the drugs, of the children who suffer from malnutrition, of the sick and abandoned persons of any public assistance, of the families with all their unemployed and without any help, of the workers who live in poverty because they receive wages of misery that the Government applauds without a noise. Workers and poor workers who are, above all, used to improve the statistics of recovery that only the People's Party sees. How dare you talk about job creation today, and it's over. There's the whole goal of the People's Party. What job? These 300-euro jobs that are now being offered to workers and workers? These jobs that don't reach the minimum inter-professional wage? Is that what you're selling us here? Propaganda, propaganda and propaganda, to anesthetize society and so that many people continue to suffer the situation, as if it were their fault. Frankish dictatorship controlled hunger in homes, mass emigration and forced by poverty, the hunger of childhood, with prisons full of those who dared to rebel. The only difference between you and frankism is that they now maintain democratic rights at least formally, but neither will they differentiate as soon as the Mordace Law enters into force that they have prepared in recent months. So, as in frankism, as in that dictatorship, the discontent of the people with their policies is and will be answered with repression instead of solutions. His economic policy is to pay the speculators, serve the oligopolies and dominate friends and friends. They get money in black for their campaigns in exchange for concessions and favors with public money, but nothing happens to them, because you're like Caritas. And that is to be worth and shameless: the People's Party is equal to Caritas. Therefore, Pachi Lucas can compare it to the poor in the world, because it is to whom the People's Party favors its friends. They should really apologize, they should publicly apologize for these statements. In addition, criminal laws have already made sure that corruption crimes are soon prescribed and PP treasurers and PP itself remain unpunished. You impose on justice but not on society, because even if you refuse to assume political responsibilities, society will force you to assume them by your votes. The result of the Andalusian votes is an advance of what will happen in the rest of the state. You may refuse to set up parliamentary committees on corruption; you may refuse to have Mr Núñez Feijóo or Mr Rajoy appear before their respective parliaments to explain the PP's finances; you may reduce the number of MEPs, in a desperate attempt to keep the majority in the chambers; you may refuse to resign from your public office, to maintain the savings. No matter what they do, the citizenry will take care of them – with b – of institutions that have been taking too long and needing new air, which brings new ways of doing politics, based on transparency, respect for citizenship, participatory democracy and honesty. You raise indirect taxes, like fuel taxes, and you don't care if we have the most expensive gas oil and gasoline in the state, if that's enough to pay for a debt that keeps growing and the other fallouts that are dedicated to. Selling the refund of hydrocarbon tax as a great achievement of truth that should at least not say it, because there are things that it is best not to say them and to insist as if it were a great success, when there are a number of requirements that are precisely self-sufficient, to less powerful transport entrepreneurs, with less capacity, obviously not going to benefit them. Counselor, I expect you to be honest, it's the only thing I hope. I hope it's honest enough to explain to the citizen why, since Mr. Núñez's rule, debt has increased from 3,922 million to 10,000 million in round numbers today. I could also explain to the citizenship why with its fiscal policy it continues to increase the concentration of wealth in the hands of a few, increasing inequality and leaving most of the citizenship with less and less resources and less possibilities to consume. It's the liquidation of the middle class, it's the social exclusion of every day, more and more people. It's the covert or explicit liquidation of public services, for private benefit. It's the suicide policy that Mr. Núñez Feijóo led us to have less and less economic activity, less resources and more debt. But he doesn't care. And they won't change their politics, because this is the policy they want to make. You follow the path of the Latin American governments of the 1980s and 1990s, which have ended up being almost stateless. You represent only suffering. Where ordinary citizenship perceives Mafia you perceive Caritas. Yes, they constantly announce makeup measures against corruption, but they leave intact the plots they trade with training, and also assuming that you have denounced Operation Zeta, when it's completely a lie. If they really wanted to change something, they would announce a plan of inspection of great fortunes; they would announce means for the Tax Agency and the absolute independence of technicians; they would announce a tax reform that would rise the highest sections of the IRPF; they would announce that they will review the scandalous taxes that are being applied in heritage transmissions; they would announce innovative measures to improve demography, which go beyond tax reliefs; they would announce measures against fraud in employment, which is being a great burden or a great tax burden on our community. At last, I am very sorry for her continuing and propaganda vision of Galicia's economic policy. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u109	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. Mr. Jorquera.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u110	Thank you, Mr. President. Members and Members. First of all, I want to express the grief of the BNG for the victims caused by the plane crash that made the route between Barcelona and Düsseldorf. Your Honor, allow me to begin by wishing you luck in your work, at least luckier than your predecessors have, as much as you claim that the results prove to be correct. I say this because in 2011 Galician Union predicts a 1% growth in our economy; the reality is that it fell by 0.5%. In 2012 Junta predicted an increase of 1.1% of GDP; the reality was that it fell by 2%. In 2013 the German Government was more cautious and predicted a drop of 0.9% of GDP; but still, it went wrong again and our economy fell one tenth more than expected. And finally last May and June announced that we would close 2014 with a GDP growth of 1.2%. "The growth will be greater in Galicia, with which the Community will continue to converge with the state," said Mrs. Elena Muñoz from this rostrum. And the reality is that our economy has only grown by 0.4%, that is, by one third of Galician Union forecast, and the reality is that in the state it has grown by 1.4%, more than triple than in our country. The Galician Union, Counselor, has been making four consecutive years making massive mistakes in its forecasts. The reality, as much as you are committed to saying that Galicia was a pioneer, is that all the indicators indicate that with its policies we continue to diverge; we are not converging, the gap that separates us from the whole of the Spanish state. Galician, pioneer, in what, with your policies?, Counselor. Industrial production index: the average decrease in the state as a whole was 2%; in Galicia, 4.9; more than double. Exports: they grew in the state by 4.7; in Galicia, by 1.2; less than the third. Internal demand: it grows in the state as a whole five times as much as in Galicia, data from the 2014 EPA. Whether we look at the evolution of unemployment or the evolution of employment and active population, Galicia unfortunately comes out much worse; while the state is beginning to create jobs, Galicia 2014 closed with destruction of net employment, and the difference between what happens in the state, not even creating garbage employment, precarious employment, serves to machining the figures. And this data, Counselor, is followed by other equally negative indicators, such as the demographic fall that indicates the last municipal pattern. Galicia lost in one year more than 17,000 residents and 27,000 residents between 15 and 34 years of age; in the last five years Galicia lost more than 100,000 residents under 35 years of age. And in the meantime, you're talking about policies that bet on the generational balance. Well, that's a small way to achieve the generational balance, Counselor! Look, in the face of the government's speech, the data indicate that the crisis in our country is much more acute and persistent than in the state as a whole. And in view of this, what do you offer us, besides promising us a happy world in 2020 under the Strategic Plan 2014-2020? In view of this reality, taken from official statistics, what do you offer us? For what offers us is continuity, continuing a path that is taking our country to ruin. Look, Mr. Martínez, there's been a press comment on your appointment that sincerely drew me much attention. The commentary said something like this, that the president of the board chose for the Education and Culture portfolio a person with a marked political profile and for the Billing portfolio a person with a technical profile. And the justification was that, in view of the context of budgetary constraints, with a margin of manoeuvre of the Board of Governors very limited by the tutelage and the limits imposed by the Central Government, the management of the Business Council had a more technical than political dimension. Well, I have to tell you, Mr. Counselor, I disagree loudly. You're not an accountant, you're a politician; you're a political officer of extraordinary importance: the Galician Councillor's Office of Housekeeping. And, as we have expressed in many debates, farm policies and fiscal policies are not neutral, they affect people's lives. Tax policies, ultimately, income policies and public spending distribution policies are the main tool of a government to influence the movement of the economy, to redistribute existing wealth, and therefore to identify which are the real priorities of that government. And the consequence of the continuity that you announce in the policies of the Galician Union will be to prolong and accentuate the economic and social decline in which our country is sinking. Because, look, if austerity policies are contraindicated for the whole of Europe, I am much more in a country with a peripheral and backward and dependent economy, like Galicia, which needs much more of the public investment as a tractor of its development. So, Counselor, allow me to ask you a few questions. The resignation of his Government to make anticyclical policies, dogmatic obedience – and I would even dare say that fanatic – to the austerity policies practiced by his Government, do they not have an influence in which consumption in Galicia grows five times less than in the state as a whole, thus hindering recovery? Do you not also influence that 2014 is closed with an increase in the debt of 8%? Look, in many debates we have denounced that austerity policies neither serve to reactivate economies nor serve to sanitize public accounts, because depression in demand also results in recovery. And you're talking about the sustainability of the public accounts, that they bet on ensuring their sustainability and sanitizing the public accounts. What do you mean? What is the debt of Galicia to represent 6.8% of GDP by the end of 2008 to be represented in 2014 or 18.2? Because any person would be at least aware of the need to examine the evolution of debt in relation to GDP, and in the previous Government it has lowered and left its debt at 6.8 of GDP in relative terms; compared to GDP it has dropped, it has left its debt at 6.8, and now the government debt in Greece represents 18.2 of GDP. You speak of control of public indebtedness when it turns out that the Government to which you belong has generated more debt than the sum of all previous self-governments. And even, as the Board of Auditors has denounced, they have had to resort to indebtedness in order to finance current operations, which is contrary to any principle of sustainability in public accounts. Look, Counsellor, and while this happens, according to data from your own Government, Galicia's resources from the autonomic financing system will be in 2015 of 6,112 million euros; i.e. 1,327 million euros less than in 2008. According to data from its own Government, since the entry into force of the new financing system, Galician arrivals have dropped by 6,561 million euros in total. This, of course, is partly due to the fall in the collection due to the crisis, but it is also due to the reform of the financing system approved in 2008, clearly prejudicial to Galicia, which does not ensure the sufficient resources for our country. And to such an important question, you, in your intervention, didn't dedicate to him for a minute now, not a single word. What position will the Government have with regard to the financing system? Tell us about the financial facility mechanism, that the Galician board is going to have a savings of 100 million euros, devoted much of its intervention to talking about a public employment law that has already been debated in this House – and that is now in process in this House – and has not given a word to the system of autonomous financing. We're still waiting to learn about Galician Union's position on a key, vital issue for our country, Counselor. Because the system of self-financing depends on the financing of our teaching, our health, our social services, those services that your Government continues to cut, saying that you can't spend what you don't have. That is why I have already finished my speech, Counsellor, with several questions, the same as I did last week in the Commission 3rd of this Parliament to your Director General without getting an answer from you. So let's see if today we have more luck in this appearance to Parliament's plenary session. Will your Government require the revision of the system of self-financing, which had to be reviewed before the end of 2014 and the Rajoy Government is in breach of its legal obligation by delaying this review?, will you require that review, Counsellor? What proposals does your Government have on this issue? We want to know whether the Galician Union has any views, whether it has any proposals regarding the system of self-financing, about a key issue for our country. If you have proposals, do you think of them to be known? Do you intend to subject them to a process of dialogue with the parliamentary groups that make up this Parliament or in this issue – as I also told your Director General – the Greek Government, as in so many others, simply can't answer? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u111	Thank you, Mr. Jorquera. Parliamentary Group of the Alternative Left Gallega, Mr Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u112	Good morning. Good morning, Counselor. I wanted to start by reviewing a series of notes I was taking during his intervention, but first of all, to tell him that the most unworthy thing the People's Party and the Government of Galicia are doing, and the Government of the State is repeating to us that speech that we have already overcome the crisis. It seems unworthy to me because I am convinced that you know reality, as we know it. I'm the reality that I know and what I see is that there are still people who are expelled from their homes because they don't have to pay for mortgages or rents, which increase the cases of evictions during 2013 and 2014. Because the reality that we see, and that you have to do, is that there is more poverty and more social exclusion. The reality we see is that most of the people of 20, 25, 30 years old, who we know you've studied, have to look for opportunities outside of this country. That's the reality that we see and that sees the population. That speech, besides being unworthy, does not believe it or those who in the past supported the People's Party. They don't believe him or his voters anymore, because he's not real. If we think that overcoming the crisis is to consolidate this model, you are calling for the resignation that the recovery means that young people and girls who studied, who paid expensive masters to form, who were told that they had to improve employability, that they had to be trained and that if they were trained, they would have opportunities in this life, they would work at companies for 500 or 600 euros to work long working days. That's what you're telling us, because you're missing the truth. Because I'm convinced that you also know this reality, but for the sake of an election result of staying in power, you're willing to fake reality and repeat -- because you have much more media power than we have -- a thousand times to try to make it a lie. But the reality is that we don't get through the crisis, if the crisis counts on people's welfare, in a country that doesn't lose population, in a country that doesn't destroy jobs, in a country that has prospects for the future. You've been suspended from both the year 2009 and the last year. I'm starting first with the notes we took. Because you talked about the debt, Mr. Jorquera told you: when you arrived it was 6.8%, today it's over 18% and it's going to end this year with more than 10,000 million debts from the Greeks. You tell him all the data he later mentioned. You talked about expanding basic services, which in these years you have preserved and expanded basic social services. This is another coat of hair, what does it mean, for example, to health?, is it health that is when there are more and more frequent collapses in hospitals? Mr. Feijóo and Mrs. Mosquera say they are peaks of disease; of course, a system has to be prepared for peaks and valleys, understand? And that must be produced by a snippet or by mismanagement. I mean, expanding basic services, once again you're missing the truth. You were pioneers in the austere. You're also talking about realistic predictions. You already told him the previous voicer, what are the realistic forecasts that you made?, the 2013 2014 forecasts or those that do for 2015 when they predict a similar growth to that of the state when all of Galicia's indicators are worse than those of the state? Are those the realistic forecasts? Just like when you talked about the Strategic Plan 2014-2020, because since you don't get better forecasts than in the previous one, 2010-2014, we're on the run. See, the strategic plan's goals announced to bomb and plate by Mr Núñez Feijóo: target 2014, GDP per capita with respect to the European Union of 27, the situation in 2010 was 90%, the strategic plan forecast increased to 95%, and at the end of 2014, the result is 87%. Instead of that announced increase, it goes down. That is why this decline in per capita GDP also increases the safety net of European funds, because if we reached 95%, maybe we didn't have that safety net, but it would mean that this country has advanced in convergence with the European Union, which has not happened. The population employed in 2010 was 63%, the forecast increased to 65%, and by the end of 2014, it was 58.18% the population employed from 20 to 64 years old. And then a very easy data, because maybe the others, well, by the international set, we can fail. But you promised to raise the investment in R+D+I from 1 to 1.5% and today we're at 0.87%, and that's just recording and executing budgets. So realistic predictions; they recognize, then, that they have to change for you to have credibility. You were talking about the Atriga, about the Galician Tax Agency. They grow up every year 150 million euros invariably, yes, in the presence of the Director General he couldn't make a comparison with the system prior to the formation of Atriga. Nor has a unanimous agreement been reached by Parliament to make a plan to monitor the tax fraud of large estates, approved unanimously and not executed, yet again lacking Parliament's commitments. You talked about taxation. The tax reform you announced the bomb and plate, which only aggravates the inequality of this unequal model, does not touch the fight against tax fraud, does not affect the fight against tax fraud! You pursue and Atriga pursue to a greater extent and punish to a greater extent, exerts more pressure on the little fraud. As the Director General explained in this Parliament, 86% of the operations and amounts collected were for low-complex operations. And, simply, with a very logical reasoning from the CEO that it's much easier to pursue a common person than to pursue the great plots of great heritage. It is clear, of course, that yes, but in these great heritages it is found, according to the data of the Fatenda technicians, 80% of tax fraud; and you devote 80% of your effort to pursuing the small fraud, already increasing the inequality of taxation itself. Just one example: while the citizens of the community are paying more taxes through indirect taxes, Mr. Amancio Ortega has just declared 961 million euros of dividend, 2.63 million euros a day. Of course, the ownership of these shares is of heritage societies, of course, the Ministry of Business did not touch the sysavs or touch the instruments that make it possible for this gentleman to pay less taxes – this lord and others like him –. Speaking also of public employees, you said that we consolidate public employees, that's not the data we have. What you're going to do is go to a model where workers, employees are cut off and, on the other hand, they don't hurt to award the positions you name. Those can earn big salaries. Finally – and I think I'm running out of time –...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u113	One minute thirty.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u114	In short, Mr. Feijóo came by selling fame as a good manager, as an austere manager, and economic data show that nothing further from reality. As I haven't had much time, here's a table of the evolution of the People's Party's Government's balance since its arrival and the truth is that I qualify as truly worrying or dramatic this data. In 2009, the total population of Galicia was 2,796,000 Greeks in 2014 of 2,747,000; that is, 48,000 inhabitants less in this country. I don't know if it's for you, but there are economists who say that this is Galicia's main economic problem. Assets were 1.331,000 in 2009, 1,279,800 in 2014; down 3.87 per cent. Busy from 1,170,000 to 982,000, a job destruction of more than 180,000. The average household expenditure has been reduced from 28.982 to 26.088. As much as a percentage of homes with difficulty to reach the end of the month increased from 60.80 % to 71.40 %. Public debt, I've already said it, has increased, etc. And budgets for debt service went from 3.34 to 20.55%. I don't have time for more, but that's the Government of the People's Party's Government's balance of unable – and in the second part of the intervention – to articulate development policies in the productive sectors, in the industrial sectors, unable to maintain its own financial capacity, the protagonist of destroying the capacity of the Greek financial system to promote industry creation and which has decapitated the industrial production of this country in recent years. So, to you, at this point in the legislature, there are no more rabbits left from the cyst than to get out. They talk about strategic plans for the future, but a government that has been six years can no longer be judged on the basis of promises...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u115	It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u116	...you have to judge it on the basis of the current reality and the current reality is very worrying, the product of your economic decisions that lead to this country's decline and aging. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u117	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr González Santín.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u118	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen. First of all, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, I would like to welcome this Parliament at its first appearance. You acquired or acquired a complex responsibility at a tremendously weak moment in our economy. I want you to be aware of this. The department that is running has, among other tasks, assigned economic analysis, as well as the work on its planning and follow-up, the most similar to the design of the economic policy of our community. Counsellor, as you well know, the German Government has a volume of annual resources in its budgets that almost close to 20% of our GDP, that is, something very, very important. That is why I think it is appropriate for us to do this and, if you prefer, think about how our economy has evolved in recent years. Surely it coincides with me that the evolution of the Welsh economy last year 2014 was not positive for Galicia, I remind you that our community was the third with the worst behavior of all autonomous communities in 2014. And taking this into account, I missed an explanation in his presentation about this, as I also have to tell him that I have missed every reference to poverty or inequality that Galicia is suffering in recent years, unless these two variables -- poverty and inequality -- are objective of its economic policy. GDP growth was under the Spanish package last year, in 2014, and the forecasts – I was told by my colleagues who preceded me in the word – of the Government, of course, did not say so, even if they came to talk about a GDP growth of 1.2% for 2014. Nothing but you had a 66% error in calculating an indicator or the most important indicator for our economy, and you're talking about realistic forecasts to assess the outcome and work of the Galician Union. I think that's where we have to start: making realistic forecasts. The reality shows a negative deviation from Galicia in terms of GDP with the rest of the autonomous communities, we are diverging, not converging. At this point, I would like, sir, to have told us – you spoke here that you estimate a 2% increase for this 2015 – you believe, as the advisor said when it was the budget debate, that we are going to grow over Spain or not and that forecast is maintained by 2%. Because, despite the fact that everything goes very well and that levels in the economy are great, one of the variables that, for me, of course, is the one that best measures or one that best measures how an economy goes is unemployment and I think we're not doing well on that subject, even though you say we're doing a lot better in the last year. That's why I think your speech of satisfaction in this audience is absolutely out of place, the facts and the data I send myself. We have now made ourselves, for a moment, in some variables of their economic policy or the result of their economic policies: they have increased in 100,000 people who have been stopped since you rule in 2009; the number of homes in which all of their members are stopped is located in Galicia in almost 90,000, twice that then; there are nearly 170,000 less busy, which places Galicia as the first of all autonomous communities where the descent was highest; they have lost about 117,000 memberships to Social Security and Galicia has been the community where the rate of unemployment has increased since 2009. These are data that, I suppose, will not beat me. On the other hand, if we analyze the balance of 2014, we can also observe that wages have worsened, Galicia's pay gap with the rest of Spain has increased by 11%. Industrial developments in 2014 suffered the biggest cut in all Spain, the industrial production index was -4% for Galicia compared to 1.5% for Spain. And that's the year in which the Government said it was going to be the year of the recovery of the naval sector, I suppose you'll remember. The reality: a downturn of 5.2%. If we talk about agriculture, another strategic sector for our community, because backwardness is more than 4%, too. If we see trade for the kid, it's continued with job destruction, the difference from what happens in the whole of other communities. Galicia has an average rate of -0.2% while in Spain it is positive, 0.5%. If we look at tourism, data on a degree of occupation or profitability in the host sector are still far from the year 2009 and we're still at the queue of Spanish communities. If we look at the total trade balance in terms of GDP, considering both imports and foreign exports and Spain, we have an unfavourable balance of EUR 1,310 million. If we looked at the external trade data last year, there was a reduction of 3.2 % in exports compared to 2013. The trade balance with respect to the rest of Spain in 2014 was negative for Galicia worth EUR 4,642 million, one of the highest figures in our history. So, Counsellor, on the basis of these arguments, do you think that the Greek economy is going to change course or, as you said, are we going very well and we're going to follow the same way? Following the analysis I was commenting on and relating to what I was telling you that the Community's budgets almost involve 20% of the Italian GDP, we have to look at one of their future responsibilities that will be the development of budgets. I allow myself – and without repeating the budgetary debates – to do an analysis of what were the budgets of the old advisors, who have, of course, from my point of view, some points in common. First of all, with regard to social expenditure, there is an increasing expenditure in absolute terms, contrasting with cuts in fundamental public services. Yes, the government is trying to distract by talking about relative figures. All these budgets also have a strong increase in public indebtedness. All economic objectives are subject to compliance with the deficit. Something that in principle has to be a medium, has become an end to itself. And I also have to tell you that the levels of budget execution are manifestly improved. It's also said here that the Galician Union has given up increasing the income of our community. By giving you some budget data: social expenditure in 2010 – the year that completely budgeted Mr. Feijóo’s government – there was a reduction of 8.262 million and this year, 2015 where we are, there are 6,447; that is, 1,815 million minus, a reduction of 22%. By collecting data – I repeat the budget. What you might ask the Government is what measures will be put on top of the 2016 budget to change this trend. You yourself said you've quantified 100 million euros. The question that I ask you is that these savings will be invested, for example, of the 100 million euros that you said?, in the interest of debt?, in social expenditure?, in active policies against unemployment, as we have proposed with little success since our group, or in what is going to be quantified? As far as public debt is concerned, I don't really know what to say here. I took a sentence that you said, "Galicia has a policy of control and maintenance of debt." You said it, except for error or omission. Do you realize that when you arrived you had 6.8% of GDP in debt -4,252 million, have you already quantified in your intervention? Today they have 10,000, we're 18% of GDP and you say it's a policy of control and maintenance of debt. Last year they increased 750 million euros, something more than 8%, when for the public administrations – you know it well – it's 7%, a minus point. I repeat, the public debt today exceeds 18% when a ceiling was set for the year 2014 at 17.6%. And the worst: it is already openly recognized that public debt will continue to increase, by the year 2015 it is estimated at 450 million euros. I'd like you to tell me honestly what your policy, what you're going to push, about public debt in the coming months and years. If we talk about the public deficit, the government deficit in Greece for 2015 is 0.7%, – which I have already assumed a 0.3-point decrease with respect to this exercise of the past 2014 – but it is that for next year, 2016, it will have to go to 0.2. I ask you, do you think this is okay? Will you defend another type of deficit criteria in the fiscal and financial policy board or will you accept this that you were telling us here in your intervention? If we're talking about productive expenses, I have to tell you, of course, that their levels of execution are certainly worrying. Everything that's Chapter VI and Chapter VII, I don't think, first, you don't plan what has to be budgeted and then you don't run what's budgeted. I mean, certainly very problematic all that is the investment that you yourself said was fundamental to our growth.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u119	Thank you very much, Mr. Santín.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u120	I'll continue on next shift, also talking to you about the Tax Agency you've commented on, and also about the Strategic Plan, which I think is quite important and what you should explain...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u121	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u122	...the difference between what you are and what you will propose. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u123	Popular Group, Mr. Puy Fraga.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u124	Thank you, Madam President. I want to begin by joining what some spokesmen who preceded me in speaking made at the beginning of their speeches, welcoming this Parliament. I want to congratulate you on the appointment, I want to do it in public because I've already done it in private, although I know – for I know it personally – that the one who doesn't have to congratulate you is precisely you, who assumes the advice, but the one who has to congratulate the Government because he has the opportunity to count on his experience in front of this council. [[Murmurs.]] I'm very glad that you like this compliment that I sincerely do to Mr. Valeriano and I wish they would do it to you sometimes, too. [[Applause]] In any case, these compliments have to do with a purely biographical data, because Mr. Valeriano Martínez is an excellent public servant who has performed positions of responsibility that enabled him to know sectors like, first, Sergas. And we all agree, by speaking in the financial field, that the problem we have of financing is basically health financing, and Mr Martínez is an expert on this issue to which his experience in this matter is attached. He also knows the importance of investment, since he also played positions of responsibility in the Territorial Planning and Public Works Council. He has experience in controlling public accounts, doing an excellent job on the Board of Auditors. And finally, at the latest stage in the President's General Secretariat, he got a global view of the political action of the Government. [[Murmurs.]] Which places it, simply with this data, obviously in an excellent position to manage public accounts both from a technical point of view, because it is a great technician, as well as from a political point of view – obviously from the point of view of economic policy –. So you have a broad view of social spending, investment spending, the importance of control and efficiency of public spending, which allows you – that is seen in your intervention – to clearly set what the objectives and priorities of counseling are at present. The opposition used to confuse situations, to say that the PP is what leads to ruining a country when whoever brought the country to ruin was not the PP, it was the Government that preceded the PP in the case of the Spanish economy. [[Murmurs.]] I'd like to remind you that the terrible...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u125	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u126	...economic crisis that Spain still suffers and that Galicia still suffers, and that it does not have to do with the end of the recession – which is a good news –. You know perfectly well the distinction between an economic crisis and a social crisis, an institutional crisis and a recession. And the fact is... yes, sometimes I have doubts that they know, but well, I remind you. [[Murmurs.]] Madam President, I would like to be able to speak, simply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u127	Mr. Puy, Mr. Puy, you think... [[Murmurs.]] Please! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Excuse me a moment. One thing is a little distraction at a given time, and another thing is not to let talk, not to let talk! to the spokesman. Do the favor. Go on, Mr. Puy. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Mrs. Acuña, you're doing a lot of credit today. I don't want to have to call her in order for a second time. We'll leave things as they are. Mr. Puy, continue, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u128	In no case did I intend to disturb the honourable lady and I apologize to the ladies... specifically to the one who protested and qualified me with something – which I believe is not at all my intention – is that it was because you interrupted me, and I thank her, in any case, also that she stops speaking while one intervenes, because they actually cut one thread – and we can do it all, huh, that tactic we can do all of it – and I think it's not positive. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] In any case what I was commenting on is that the recession ended, not the crisis, and that at present it is obvious that, after suffering the consequences of a crisis that has to do with what the previous Government has done and, if I may be allowed – to see that I have no way of recognizing it – also the Government prior to the previous one, because this crisis has been nightmared since the end of the 1990s, the beginning of the two thousand years, but of course those who did not see it when it was closest were the last, not the penultimate. In any case, what was an expansion based on a non-productive industry that was brick, based on private and public indebtedness, actually Spain became the most indebted country in the world. A financial crisis also generated by a lack of supervision at that time of the financial institutions – we are already talking in the late two thousand years, so there is a clear responsibility for some. This translates into a real crisis that generates unemployment and, of course, generates a fall in income; and generates a wage devaluation that has to do with the fact that, in previous years, wages have increased much more above productivity in Spain, and much more above what wages have grown in countries with which we directly compete in a single market, which is the European Union; and which, of course, has generated an adjustment that is not a consequence of the Government of the People's Party policy, but that is the consequence of what the Spanish economy has been during the previous decade. So that's the situation, and fortunately today, we're leaving the recession and the Greek economic agents recognize that the situation has improved. The last survey that was conducted among the German entrepreneurs says, for example, that – in relation to the year 2012 – the unfavourable responses to the vision of the Greek economy were reduced by 24 points – from 91% in 2012 to 52% in 2014 –; there are still half unfavourable opinions but, of course, the improvement and optimism of the entrepreneurs is greater. 54% believe that the Greek economy will improve in the next few months, particularly from next year onwards, and they also believe that it will start creating jobs; a third of them say that new workers will already be hired this year, but a quarter of them expect to generate jobs from 2016 onwards. So things have changed and we're in a situation, as the counselor said, of consolidating growth and consolidating job creation. Of course, we have some outstanding issues, but the fact is that the main reforms are already allowing autonomic spending – I want to remind the Public Employment Act that allows to recover the extra payments that fell over the complement, which have been reduced –. Public consumption in Galicia is higher –0.6%, average 0.1% – and, of course, with much more healthy accounts. I want to remember that in 2008 the Greeks owed the same thing as the Spaniards through the Autonomous Community, 1,500 euros, and in 2014 the Greeks owe 3,500, with which it is obviously an increase but it is much lower than the average of the Spaniards through the Autonomous Communities, which are almost 5,000 – i.e. 1,400 euros of difference as a result of a policy of reasonable indebtedness –. At the moment, the Spanish economy is growing, the Greek economy is integrated with Spain, the European Central Bank and the European Union are making decisions that allow the economy to be financed, there are indications that more widespread spending is starting, the price of oil is also falling, and certainly in this context we must agree. It is true that we are growing less than the average of Spain in 2014. It is also worth recalling, from time to time, that the greatest deviation of forecasts in the history of the Autonomous Community was the one produced by the Government of the Block and the Socialist Party, which was 4 to 8 points – the economy in 2009 fell 3.5 and the forecast that the bipartisan had before leaving the Government was 1.3–. But all this isn't important issues, the important thing is that President Feijóo, I remember him, said in 2012 that net employment would be created from 2015 onwards, just what is happening; and in that there was not a mistake in anticipation, but there was much work to do to adjust an economy that began to give good symptoms of having a healthier economic base. In 2008 Galicia had a commercial balance – i.e., sold abroad, the difference from what it bought – of 242 million euros, had a virtually balanced balance. Currently – year 2014 – the favourable trading balance for Galicia is 3,200, almost 3,300 million euros. So we're able to export, and that's what matters in the current context. I, from the counsellor's intervention, in the minute I have left, wanted to highlight – in relation to continuity, as it is said, that it is reasonable, that it is logical and that we, of course, support us because it is helping us to get out of the recession first and sure that it will help us to get out of the crisis – two questions: on the income side, the adviser defended and said that he would continue to work on the progressiveness of our tax system, which is achieved with selective reductions from autonomous taxes, fundamentally in the social system – 80% of the tax expenditure are of a social nature – but also raising taxes and thus defending how he made the contribution that the Greeks pay for the tax of the estate tax, the difference from what is happening in other communities – even governed by the People's Party, as in Madrid – where there is no such tax; of course, continuing to continue the debt and continuing to fight fiscal fraud. The plan included the great heritage – the director general explained this time; what you want me to tell you is that great heritage has controlled, which you know cannot be done – with a system of autonomous funding that this year gives us a little more income, and that you are not acting badly, against also what has been said, right?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u129	Finish, please, Mr. Puy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u130	We're five funding points on average. And the second characteristic of spending is efficiency. I, Counsellor, believe that, if you are able to bring us – along with these administrative modernization measures – a strategic plan that includes the performance of actions, the Greek economy will have a great debt with you because it will be a great innovation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u131	Thank you very much. You have the floor for the reply of the councillor of Fairy, Mr. Valeriano Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u132	Thank you again, Madam President. Let me reply to the different actors of the groups – the Group of the BNG, the Group of the BNG, the Group of the AGE, the Group of the PSOE – in a somewhat orderly way, in my own way and form, trying to find those points that were common in their interventions. I'm sorry in advance if, perhaps, some of the issues you've pointed out how important it hasn't been detected by me at the moment. And I'm going to try to maintain a certain logical similarity with which we've also been advancing in the first intervention, in a different way structured. In the considerations of all of you that I've been pointing out there are common points that are conditioned, such as the issue of deficit and the advantages that are derived from this kind of policy taken since 2009 in such an accelerated way by us. There's been one more coincidence that almost all of you have in mind on the subject of debt. We also talk about the issue of GDP, both in 2014 and in 2015 as an indicator of whether we are actually creating jobs or not, whether there is a differential or why we base our estimates in 2015 and we continue to maintain them. We've also talked about tax fraud here, and let me also say once again, what is our position in which self-financing can be. I hope to give you an answer to each and every one of these points that I've been writing down, and that I think to a large extent they respond to what most of you have been moving on. I must also thank the tone, of course in the controversy, in the non-agreement that we have in even basic matters, but I must also thank – this first intervention, in a general political character, of what are the master lines of the council for what we remain of legislation – the tone with which you have been transmitted by all of you. Indeed, there may be a discrepancy, which I take perfectly, but I think it is to thank the tone with which it was made. Let's start with the deficit. The deficit is not an end in itself, no, the zero deficit allows us two things markedly. Since 2009 the deficit allowed us was, first of all, to ensure the state of well-being that we have given. There's no greater guarantee than I do. Why? Because it revolves around two issues, such as credibility and responsibility – which, in this case, the Government of President Feijóo since 2009 – and which allows us to consolidate and even expand on some issues that are perfectly known to you all, such as in the field of social services, in the field of infrastructure-sanitary, or in the field of education with recent and small reforms, but which also reach our students and citizens in general. That is to say, on the one hand the deficit is the first guarantee of the state of well-being, and on the other hand it is also a translation – the main broadcast entities, and to the financial markets – that we are facing a administration would be, credible, predictable, sometimes boring, but that it is able to achieve funding in the best conditions that the market is going to have – as it has in recent years, which we intend to continue to do. It continues because in recent years, in fact, the evolution of the financial market has enabled us to finance ourselves in a more structured way. You should bear in mind that even in the most difficult years – as in 2010 or 2011 – there has been a recourse to debt by this autonomous community – which, when structured at a convenient time, allows it to be restructured more easily at this time and lowered that indicator, as may be the interest or chapter III of the budget. In addition to being meridianly clear, with a profound breakdown, not only what it means at the entry and recognition of work well done by this community in the new financial facility compartment mechanism, which we access in the best possible conditions – not to diminish in any way our decision-making capacity in economic policy, which is what we are dedicated to – so that at this time we can achieve, not only that budget savings – which I estimated at 15 plus 85, 100 million euros – but even our interest in the rest of the debt; because here we are talking about the structuring of something more than 1,500 million, plus 85 which are the negative liquidations of 2008 and 2009 – not responsible for this Government so much –; therefore, those 2,000 and some millions of euros that we were also talking about in my first intervention. The deficit, therefore, is not a ballad issue. Credibility, predictability of sometimes boring administration, but which enables markets and interlocutors to gain in this respect, the maximum partners. The deficit that has been achieved every year, and again on the data that we'll soon know about the year 2014, where we're going to stay at approximately 0.94% or 0.95%, achieving the target, which was at 1%. But this issue that, as I told you earlier, allowed us this political autonomy, which allowed us not to access, the only common regime community that did not access the funds that derives from the state at a given time – whether in the FLA or the suppliers, the only one in the common regime. And why? Because we were able to finance ourselves in the best possible conditions that would be proposing the market at every moment. And that has a corollary of what we're not talking about enough, but we need to put it into place – today we have also just got some published data in what is paying to suppliers –: in payment to suppliers, having an economy like we have, this allows us at this time that, as a general rule, the average payment is in 21 days, and we are more than 30 days under the average of the rest of autonomous communities; 30 days than in the health field – which is the most conflictive area from the point of view of expenditure, as previously noted – it turns out that we have it in more than 32 days. And why? Because this means something very clear: on the one hand, we're not moving to companies -- from the humblest autonomous to the largest company, not only working for the rich but for everyone -- we're not transferring restrictions to their viability, financial restrictions, we're making things easier for them. For what? So that these companies – both small and medium – can, at the moment we start out in a sensitive way – little but sensitive and hope to consolidate by 2015 – which was first advanced by 2014. But together with this, when we talk about payment to suppliers, there's also another very important variable, like commercial debt. On top of that, we're not funding the back by centrifuging our debt. It turns out that in trade debt we are also from communities that have less commercial debt, we don't need to centrifuge the deficit from the back door, we don't have to move that issue. And that has a clear improvement for our business fabric, from the humblest to the greatest, it turns out that it has an advantage for us too, indirectly, to the extent that we pay our suppliers well and to the extent that we can also get better offers by those providers in an increasingly clear, broad, transparent bidding process that reaches more points. But it's just that, in addition, this issue of deficit has a very direct relationship, it's still a different face, but it's the same coin as the subject of indebtedness. I am strongly called attention to the positioning of the different groups, although it is true that with nuances – practically none of them, it is striking – on the subject of debt, and also coming from benches which, in principle, are drawn to what was classical theory on the subject of indebtedness, the use of debt as a matter of increasing public spending and that public spending would serve as a tractor for the economy in general. My attention is greatly drawn to the positioning of both the Joint Group and the Block and the AGE and the PSOE. Because, in short, we have to emphasize also the control of the debt that has been made – yes, and I say the word control –; not only do we have to look at six as something percent or 18% that we can have right now, but we also have to look at the trend. [[Murmurs.]] And the trend marks two very clear scenarios: on the one hand, Galicia is one of the communities that has less relative debt throughout this period, we measure it in absolute terms, or we measure it in terms of GDP. But it turns out that if we stay with this part – in terms of GDP – we are talking about almost five points, if we include not only what is Union in more or less broad terms but also even the entities and companies that make up it. Because, if we consider the companies that make up it, it turns out that at the moment, with regard to the Spanish average, we have a 4.8 point differential that gets closer and closer, increasing, increasing, increasing, and increasing, the differential is greater. And what does that mean? Five points of GDP – as you know – would mean that in Spain public administrations would have about 50 and so many thousand – I don't want to need 53, 54, but in that environment – millions of euros less behave as this administration is acting. That's the reality, 50 billion if they'd behaved like us in the rest of the administrations. With which we also approached the financing facility and we would not condition what I call, and which I went forward in my intervention, generational balance. Because that leaves the duty to others, to those who come behind, seems to me something like that. But, however, they will agree with me that, if there's a time when the debt should be used, it's now. At this point in which the brutal fall of current income and total income in 2009 required that since the administration a clear bet had been made for public investment funding, in this case through the remaining remedy that was access to debt. For what? To increase, increase, consolidate our gross fixed capital formation, as has been done during these years – classical theory: use of debt to boost fixed capital formation – is what has been done all these years and is being done. But debt also manifests another consequence that is growth. If we look at the growth in recent years of debt, we see that the biggest differential occurs in 2011; from 2011 to 2012 there is a jump of 2.6 in terms of GDP, which is curiously only of 1.6 in 2013, which curiously is only 1.2 % in 2014, which is curiously only 0.9 % in 2015. So what's the debt for? To point out public investment at moments of brutal fall of what was the current income – in 2009, by all known –. And it turns out that at present we have less growth than the practical totality of autonomous communities, and our path of growth is being flattened so that we will no longer increase that generational balance by transferring that debt to future generations. Why? Because there's a recovery of investment with other sources; because, even if it's not said and spoken only from the point of view of the execution of certain spending shares, we should also consolidate revenue shares. When we speak at certain times that the board is wrong in its forecasts, its main forecast is contained in the budgets. And in budgets, the most difficult estimate to make and the most prudent is the whole income-related issue. But, curiously, when we look at income, non-financial income – which is the real responsibility of this administration – in 2014 was 99.9%, is that it can no longer be right. But, besides, curiously, the current income, for example, was 101%, especially in relation to direct taxation. So all these issues were gradually reaching a level of precision, and even professionalism, on the part of this administration that I think we have to put enough value. As we must also emphasize that our entry into the financial facility compartment is no gift, it is the result of a policy made, a policy where we maintain our economic policy capacity. Where, on the other hand, it is a voluntary mechanism that, depending on how at a certain moment markets are evolving and the conditions we negotiate – negotiating means that there are two parts on equal terms – it makes us at a given time choose or not to follow this kind of mechanism. But always in a very clear way, which are the conditions that move us and always guarantee our independence. A lot has also been said here on the issue of GDP; on the one hand, on the one hand, on the GDP of 2014 and on the other, on the estimates of GDP of the year 2015. In both cases I think we should make certain appreciations, and not for looking at you the half empty bottle and I the half full bottle, as is my duty. When we talk about the year 2014, there are clearly positive, clearly positive data. I'm not going to leave and also be too self-sustaining when we look at the overall result – 0.4 versus 1.4 in Spain–. No, no, no. Positive data, why?, because at the moment we have improved the topic, we chained up four consecutive trimesters of positive growth rates – that was not talked about a year ago, four consecutive trimesters of such rates. What we're moving forward is that we're in a constant, consolidable thesis, that we're on the right track. And it turns out that one of the fundamental parameters that is always criticized is that we have been wrong about certain issues and there is no other one to recognize, that we are also wrong about employment. But, curiously, one of the economic paradigms just fell that said we could only create jobs when we were at 2%. No, we're starting to create jobs at 0,4 rates, that's the reality that falls from all this data, and that's the main reason we need to go deep into the policy that we've been doing. Is there a progressive recovery of consumption? Yes, this is the first time since 2008 we've been talking positively. Is it also known to increase gross capital formation? Yeah, it's the first time, a 1.3, since 2007. Do you notice that our exports continue to advance? Yes. Do almost all sectors of the Greek economy get better than a very specific and highly influential one, when we look at the supply side, what is the industrial sector like? Yes. Does the service sector start growing in a clear way? Yes, 1.5%, which has not been known this data since 2010. Is construction better? Yes, 2.6 points and it starts to be very close to positive rates. But above all, when we analyze the data from 2014, there's what's called the levels of responsibility. And the first level of responsibility of this administration revolves around two issues directly, two of which we are directly responsible. On the one hand, public consumption, and in public consumption, it turns out that we have a result that is six times greater than what was produced in Spain as an average, and this has to be valued. Why? Because that data totally dismantles the tissue introduced by some of you from the austericity. How can there be austerity if it's growing public consumption, at least something? Austericity will be down. And why are we currently in a positive thesis that will continue as well in 2015? Because we've done our duties since 2009, that's the main conclusion, public consumption above that. But it is also, in what is our responsibility – which used to advance – as is our contribution to gross fixed capital formation, that is also producing a positive increase. Why? Because we were careful with the use of debt, we began to generate a certain area of budgetary savings that allows us to assume the issues that have to do with the dynamization of economic investment. What about 2015? It turns out that in 2015, the two factors that depend on us, we still have them in a positive way; why?, because when it is introduced here as a recognition, firstly – but not exclusively – regarding the set of effort that we have made by public employees since the year 2012, it turns out that these 51 million euros – not enough put in value – are public consumption, and that adds one tenth more to GDP, and is therefore closer to the result of 0.8 that we estimate in our macroeconomic framework. And when we talk about the practical implementation of all the European funds under the current framework 7-13, this also influences – a part, especially the ESF – in terms of public consumption; but, above all, the rest of the programmes influence gross fixed capital formation. Therefore, it turns out that the data directly dependent on this administration – such as final public consumption and gross public capital formation – both in 2014, and what we expect in 2015, go the right way. It cannot be hidden that there is a second question that depends in a way not so directly but indirectly on us; in particular, it can be, first of all, what the consumption of families and non-profit entities can actually be. But in that case, where there is a differential with regard to Spain most accused – against us – there is, however, a tendency – that is what I like to talk about, and even so that it can be measured at the moment – the consumption of families. It depends on two things, basically: on the one hand, on the expectations that we began to have from the security that we take as normal consumers; on the other hand, it depends on the available income, and on the available income the fiscal policy, both of the Central Government and of the Government in Galicia, is facilitating available income – in a humble way, but facilitating available income –. So there will be a greater propensity to consumption. That at present we will also be linked to another fundamental issue which is job recovery. On job recovery – which has not been put in sufficient value here – I told you a moment ago, that the data we're told is that there are 18,000 more workers in the month of February, the social security affiliation rises. It turns out that within the categorization we have a 16% increase in contracts with a higher fixation, not so much eventuality. They're humble parameters, yes, but positive all of them. And on the same line? Yes. As we also estimate for this year, about 20% will remain because there will be a net job creation for the first time since 2009. That's what we're dedicated to, and that's what our trends are. As he also said earlier, when we're talking about being wrong in our predictions. Look, mistakes here have already been introduced and commented by Mr. Pedro Puy. I'm not going to talk about if the errors are uppercase at this stage, tenth, tenth below or a few tenths, but what was the 2009 error, which was the fundamental error, which approached four points and peak. That's no longer a mistake, that's what's not written. But I'm not going to make any kind of speeches beyond normal. All the planning that has to do with the macroeconomic framework that we manage is done in the IGE based on the most advanced tools we have, and where it turns out that what we're dealing with is the main data that comes to us from both public and most outstanding private prospective institutes that can be there right now, 23 of them. And about our perspectives right now, all the indicators tell us that we're going to be very close to 2% and that we're still holding 2%. As Airef also recognizes, Independent Tax Responsibility Authority. Airef recognized in 2014 that our centrality was set at 0.8, that by the way it was our starting date. He marked a scenario even of 0.6, and we stayed a little below, as all of these institutes did, not only was it a mistake from the Institute of Statistics. But, I tell you, I'm more interested in making a future than we're talking about right now. And the future doesn't look bad. It does not look bad always and when we believe it and work, as far as possible, together, because, in fact, reaching the 2% rates will allow us to consolidate, apart from our wealth, that employment is becoming clearer and more consolidated, which is the main factor of social inclusion that we have. The rest is light, but at both the global and the special level, when we refer to certain issues such as inclusion in the women's field, or as it may be disability, the fundamental factor remains employment, so we work and so we must follow. We were also talking about tax fraud. Let's not confuse things, tax fraud – as I said before – I think it is an obligation of any administration. It's an obligation of any administration to tax fraud. From the largest to the smallest. I don't explain how in certain matters that were introduced here if you talk about friendship, about questions... please let's have things meridically clear! By the way, when we look at the true progress in the taxes that we manage and our management, we only have to look at what we have agreed on since 2013 for what was heritage tax. That's where true progress is. And with regard to the fiscal plan, it turns out that, since we created Atriga in 2013, 150 million euros have been raised in tax debt; and now we have just approved a special plan with nearly 51 million euros. And I add to them – that the data are already closed – that I can now guarantee that the result of Atriga's normal activity in 2014 exceeds those 150 million euros of what I mentioned earlier. So there's no security check-out. Why? Because it is the best guarantee for all of us that our services will also be supported by all those who have the duty and obligation to contribute to the maintenance of our welfare society. Finally, I would like to refer to what was also asked of me as to what has always been the position of this administration with regard to the current model of self-financing. Let me tell you that the current financing system is not a good system for Galicia because it does not collect the cost factors that the Community has, and we always say that. I'm moving it forward. We therefore disagree with the system as it is conceived. Why? Because it doesn't introduce cost factors. Cost factors at which? Cost factors because we have a more expensive health. Why? Because we have an older population and we have to provide services that are more dispersed. Because we have a lot of social services that are an obligation for us, as it should be, and we have to bear them, indeed. So what we're talking about is enough, and I think the current model is not guaranteed enough. You're in good time. We don't agree with the new model, we have to guarantee enough, we have to see the costs. Or cost differential, how can we start determining it? Improving the formula of determination, therefore, of these costs that have to do with health, which have to do with social services, which generally have to do with what is the essence of our work and autonomous competition, it turns out that it integrates a variable as can be adjusted population. The adjusted population is the one that measures that sensitivity to the costs of what we're talking about here. That's the posture we've been holding on for a long time, but with a noble posture. Because what we consider is that, apart from continuing to analyze the dysfunctions that the current system has, which does not bring us closer to what we would like, our proposals must be put in common with those of the rest of the communities and the Government. And we've always been participating, following and we'll be, in a noble way, with our positions within the group set up in the Fiscal and Financial Policy Council. The time has to choose it too, as you know, not all times are good. The moment, for example, when the current system was approved was the worst of them all because it was based on two hypotheses that proved to be totally wrong, and a small incorrection!, as it is to base all funding on a tax system that had completely broken in 2009, had completely broken in 2009! Why? Because he sat in a bubble, both real estate and financial. That, therefore, is the gift of opportunity, which is so hard to find. For what? So that our income actually allows us to maintain what our expenses are – the important expenses – that I do not look at them as much as it costs, but how to return to society what puts in our hands through a financing system or another, and also through the fight against what fiscal fraud can be. And to finish this first intervention, for my part, in this Parliament in a more free way, not so engrossed, let me put in value something I've said so far. Why? Why do we meet all deficit targets? Yes. And that's not an end in itself? Yes, but that's what allows everything else. That is what allows us to also be better in debt than other communities; that we can pay our suppliers in half of the time than the rest of Spain; that our economy grows – unimpairedly but growing – and in a consolidated way; that we are creating jobs for the first time, yes, and that we continue to grow and take four quarters, yes; and that our welfare state is perfectly consolidated. Ladies and gentlemen, in a way perhaps somewhat disillusioned on my part, I tried to pass on data, reasoning. Why? Because everything else is opinions. Thank you very much and even within a moment.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u133	Possibility of opening special round of clarifications. Mrs. Martínez, do you want to talk or not? The Bureau and the Speaker's board did not agree to do so, so I ask, to comply strictly with the Rules of Procedure. [[Murmurs.]] Mrs. Martínez, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u134	We're regulators today. We have to take advantage of it. Counselor, tell you what we're at the beginning of recovery. I ask, do I start recovery for whom? Is it the beginning of recovery for disadvantaged families?, for unemployed and unemployed without hope and without benefits?, for children who suffer from malnutrition?, for families who suffer from energy poverty?, for people who live with dependency problems? Or do you speak of recovery to politics to fight against gender-based violence? I think these are things you don't understand in these cases where there's that recovery you're looking at. Also when he talks about the effort it was worth it. I don't know who's worth the effort, nor who's meant when it comes to who's made the effort. Because the effort, basically, has done citizenship, the effort has made the popular classes, so that others, who in their lifetime have made efforts, continue to enrich themselves with the poverty they are generating in others. That is the great triumph of their policies; a triumph that has led us to the rich today to be richer than they were in 2008 and the poor to be much poorer than in 2008. But it also led us to the practical disappearance of a middle class which was the one that supported that state of well-being. A state of destroyed well-being, unconsolidated, destroyed! How can you talk about the consolidation of the welfare state with the social situation we have in this country? How dare you, no matter how optimistic? Because your duty is not to see the glass half full, your duty is to see the glass and be as objective as possible in order to be able to make the most timely decisions. If you're trying to see the glass half full, you'll make all the wrong decisions, as you're proving what you're going to do. It also speaks of the elimination of the superfluous spending that the Galician Union made. I suppose that superfluous expense refers to all the layoffs of public workers and workers that you seem to think they were not necessary. Because it was necessary! And from that expense that's not done, there's a deterioration in public services. But you've also just praised yourself for all the containment of the expense. Look, the government is like a house. If you stop investing in the house, you'll start having drops, you'll start having problems, and when you realize, the investment is six times bigger, which is what you're doing with this country. They're leaving him in a state of poverty, social disinheritment in the territory and inequality that recovery will be tremendous. You talk about fictional politics, in addition, when you say that if you continue with the economic policies of the year 2009, we would now be in a debt greater than the current one in 2,500 million. That's politics fiction. You say, to keep it that way... well, but nothing else is political fiction. In the fight against fraud, I don't have much time left. It's really propaganda against fraud, because to fight tax fraud, the first thing to do is to provide the inspectors with the necessary means. That's the first thing to do. And secondly, we have to be interested in who...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u135	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u136	...will be directed – I will finish – that fight against fraud. He didn't say anything about the tax evasion either. It speaks of a 2015-2020 strategic plan based on innovation and growth. It is to me that there really are things that happen, because in this Parliament we have talked about the need to invest in innovation and it has always been rejected by the People's Party. This is about the axes of the year 2020: employability and smart growth. It's just that, really, you guys just use big bloating names. Employability, under what conditions will that job be created?, like what is being created now? Because, as much as you say, it's still temporary; and because they say good-bye and say good-bye to parents and mothers and now hire their children for half a salary. You don't talk about all that fraud...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u137	Thank you very much, Mrs. Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u138	...of contracts in which they work eight hours or ten hours and charge for four hours and declare for four hours.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u139	Thank you very much. Group of the Galician Nationalist Block. Mr. Jorquera.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u140	Thank you, Madam President. Counselor, I'll try to be very brief. I believe that the vast majority of Members and Members, in view of the progress of the hour, will be grateful to you. The future doesn't look bad. Allow me to add: for some. For some it doesn't look bad, for the vast majority still paint very badly, Counselor. Public debt. Let's see, the Galician Union, the current government, tripled the debt, yes or no? You answered this question: did you triple your debt? Yes or no? Because in absolute figures practically tripled it. And as a percentage of GDP triples it, Counselor. Therefore, whoever is transferring debt to future generations is the Government to which you belong, Counselor, twists the figures as they twist them. You appeal to the comparison with the average of the autonomous communities, to which when Mr Feijóo came to the Presidency of the Union the public debt of the Autonomous Community was something above the average. Yes, but on total limits and absolutely sustainable if we compare it to its weight in the raw internal product, and now it has tripled. And it appeals to the comparison to the average of the autonomous communities. So I ask you, why does it not appeal to the comparison with the average of autonomous communities in assessing gross domestic product growth, in assessing the evolution of the industrial production index, in assessing the evolution of domestic demand, in assessing the evolution of exports and in assessing the creation of net employment? Because in all these magnitudes, Counselor, Galicia is much worse than the average of the autonomous communities. And I say that public policies will have to serve to create wealth, to redistribut wealth with justice and equity, to create well-being and progress towards citizenship. And in all that it's manifesting itself as a gross failure. The problem with the Government that you represent is that you have articleed a total and absolutely false speech, supported in your immense propaganda apparatus, that Galicia has capped the crisis better than anyone else, that Galicia is better prepared to get out of the crisis, but all the data strongly contradict that. Look, Counselor, it's true that we're leaving the recession; at some point we had to get out, at some point it had to touch the bottom and start the rebound. But that doesn't mean he's coming out of the crisis. As for the job, Counselor, what's going on is that there are people who work 3 days a month and count as employees. That's what's happening, Counselor. You trivialize the mistakes of your government. Do you think it's a small mistake to forecast a growth three times that actually happened? Do you think it's just a mistake to say that Galicia would converge and then it turned out that it grew three times less than the state average? I don't think it's a mistake, precisely, of little magnitude. And with regard to the financing system, please be clear at once. Your government is going to issue a system review? Yes or no? A system – I insist it had to be reviewed by law before December 2014. That sets an additional provision for LOFCA, and the Rajoy Government is in breach of the law. Will you run out of system revision or not? You said that the current financing system does not guarantee Galicia's financial adequacy. I noticed this literal expression of yours, which doesn't guarantee financial adequacy. Look, you don't have to convince me.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u141	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u142	When this review was voted on, there were no more two votes against in the Congress of Deputies by the Greek Members: one was that of my companion Olaya Fernández Davila and the other was mine, which was then a Member in the Congress of Deputies. I just don't have to convince myself, BNG just doesn't have to convince him. But he says we have to wait for the moment. And I ask myself: And when is the time, if you yourself say you don't assure Galicia's financial adequacy? As it turns out, since this system came into force, Galicia has been reduced to EUR 6 billion. If it turns out that you're justifying the clippings saying you can't pay what you don't have, while they think it's not the time to demand a revision of the system. If it turns out they're transferring to the municipalities the cost of having to fund services that are not their own and at the same time says it's not the time to review the system.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u143	Thank you very much, Mr. Jorquera.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u144	What are we left with, Counselor? Is it true what Mr. Rajoy says...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u145	Thank you very much, Mr. Jorquera.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u146	...that we're leaving the tunnel or not? Why is there going to be more resources? Is it true or not true?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u147	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u148	Because, if there's going to be more resources, it's time, for all these reasons I'm saying, if you really defend your interests...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u149	Finish it, Mr. Jorquera.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u150	...in this country, to require a review of the system.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u151	Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Parliamentary Group of the Left Galician Alternative. Mr. Sánchez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u152	It's hard to talk in five minutes of the whole... in the 15 or 20 minutes the counselor spoke. You said that in the second intervention the corsets had already been removed, spoke less encorsely. I think it happened, I think it must go back to containment, because I think it felt so pleased that it even said, "Don't look bad about the future." I think it's been a little while, because I think that, really, for 90% of the population, you know how the future looks? Well, look, it paints with a country that continues to lose its population; it continues to lose its working population; that soon we will have a lot more population than it works; that it sees how young people and girls go abroad, and those who stay here to work are condemned to a precarious work model, Mr. Counsellor. That's how the future looks to 90% of the population. So they're going to continue with the tactic of repeating the lie of recovery a thousand times, at least it doesn't turn out to be cold and don't say it looks good for the future, because that future, frankly, is what I see and what even the voters of the People's Party see. That's the reality we see. A future that comes down by a present in which you have a lot of responsibility. A gift that is determined by the disappearance of financial institutions capable of creating industrial production. What happened to the savings boxes, Counselor? Since you're recently appointed – I don't know how you haven't been named before with Mr. Puy's compliments, we've lost a lot of time – I'm going to ask you, because we haven't been able to give it to you, where is the merger agreement of the boxes with the reports of the Fatenda technicians? See if you're able to give it to us because we'd like to meet him. You, during your period, have destroyed the financial instruments that are essential for the economic development of this country. We don't have boxes, when Mr. Feijóo promised a Greek box. We don't have the Banco Pastor. You decapitated the industrial sector of Galicia. We can talk about names like Endesa, Sidegasa, Maso, Alfageme, The Golden Oon, Mafriesa. We can talk about Galicia's loss of economic power and economic weight with Natural-Fenosa Gas, R, AP-9, etc. That's your responsibility, too. I'm disappointed, Mr. Puy, that you also use the tactics of blaming the previous ones. Man, in a party that has ruled most of the years of democracy in this country, resorting to the inheritance received three and a half years, it's quite poor, it's quite poor. After six years, have you not yet been able to reverse the situation? Well, I don't know what they did. Therefore, we will have a future laxed by their political decisions – I said – in the financial situation, but also in their political decisions as to those sectors that could be creating jobs, such as the energy sector, the wind, political decisions that stopped the wind. You are loosing the future with industrial production that this month – just published the data – again leads to the fall of industrial production, etc. You paint that future for our country; a future, the truth, that doesn't look good. It's not just the balance I made from 2009-2014, is that the projections that INE itself makes say that in this country we will continue on the same path as losing active population, destroying jobs. Because you said, "We were able to create jobs with very little growth in GDP." What does that mean? That the job you create is of little quality...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u153	Finish, Mr. Sánchez, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u154	...who destroys quality employment with wages worthy of employment with wages that they don't even give to live. That's reality, that's how the future looks. It's the only explanation you can make. You're talking about tax fraud. The People's Party has a lot of credibility to talk about tax fraud after seeing how it manages reforms, for example, like that of its headquarters in Genoa. But in the fiscal reform, I'm going to give you nothing more than a date. In its fiscal reform, a taxpayer who pays a million euros in the IRPF from 2014 to 2016 will save 61,300 euros. And an average contributor, of 30,000 euros, will save 488 euros. While one taxes a -12% the other will do it a -9%. Is that progressive? Is that the increase in available income? And then it wouldn't be more progressive for both of them to contribute, 61,000 more, to boost public services, to boost employment policies...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u155	Thank you very much, Mr. Sanchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u156	That is progressive. I told you I wasn't going to give me time. I'd like to follow along, but ultimately, Counselor, you tried to mess with data a reality that is very clear. This country's behavior is worse than the rest of the state, this country doesn't...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u157	Thank you very much, Mr. Sanchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u158	...expectations of the future, and the productive sectors of this country, by their decisions, are paralyzed.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u159	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u160	Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u161	Mr. González Santín. Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u162	Thank you, President. Before I went on – I was talking to you before the budget execution – I would like to stop for a brief moment on the subject of debt, without the courage to make any more war on it. Look, when we talk about debt, it seems to me very good that you want to justify what this government has spent on debt. But you're talking, for example, about negative liquidations; and you could also talk about late payments to those we're going to have to deal with the new Vigo hospital, which they weren't, and now they're going to be. And I say that negative liquidations, if they get in 2009, you'll also have to put them in this exercise, which you didn't do. And point two. You were also talking about limiting future governments. I'm just telling you to talk to a little bit of seriousness. You, since you've been ruling, six years have raised your debt by 6,000 million. You've generated more debt than all previous governments together, 150% more. So, if anyone has ever owed us future governments, they certainly weren't the previous ones. And now back to the budget execution, of what I was talking to you about earlier, I'll tell you that, in the expenses of Chapter VI and VII, your government, you, have an execution, according to the data closed to November last year, the last ones we have from the Ministry of Business, of 40.6%. You, in your first intervention, also assumed the execution of European funds. I had a little paper there that tells me about Feder 2007-2013 funds, we could take another one. The Galician Union had allocated 1,187 million euros and executed 422; that is, it has no execution, on 23rd of the 3rd of 2015, 35.6%, 422 million euros. It's true, you stay this year to execute them. Are they going to do in nine months what they haven't done in six years and three months? I wish you so much, Mr. Counselor, very fortunately. I also have to tell you again that you didn't speak in your reply of poverty or inequality. What's wrong? Is that not an economic policy objective? For us, of course, it is. Look, I'm clear is that from this appearance I get two things clean. First, the new Fairy advisor is not going to make any difference to the old advisors. And secondly, there will be no new direction on the economic policy of our community. I think you should rethink the results of that economic policy. I'm just going to take the unemployment rate of 2009, the first quarter, the last quarter of 2014. Look, nationally or unemployment rose by 34.47%. In Andalusia, for example, you like to compare, 42.98%. Do you know where the community grew up? Well, yes, the Galician, at 72.62%. These are the data and the results of their economic policy. I'd also like to talk about a little bit of what you said about tax fraud, about the plans on tax fraud that you're making in Galicia. Look, we don't know their concrete goals or their real results. We don't know what the goals of the plans are or what the results are. And I'll give you an example of the last one, 2014. We only know from the briefing notes that are given at the board of directors. I took two to compare them: the June 5, 2014, and the February 26, 2015, and I came to very similar conclusions as you said in your first intervention. In 2014, the detected volume of tax fraud decreased by 66% compared to 2013, from EUR 150 million to EUR 50.7 million. What you didn't say, but which also appears in those notes, is that in 2013 there were 229,887 checks made in our taxes typically: that of donations and that of property transmissions and documented legal acts. In 2014, 115,600, less than half. And lastly, of these 50 million of that year, if you read the little letter, what you see is that only 15 million have been for what it's really the work of the inspector...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u163	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u164	...if the rest were for collection or assistance to the people who went to the Tax Agency. Look, for collection or assistance to the people who went to the Tax Agency. Look, I believe – as I said – that you have a lot to do, a lot to do. The advisor, I think, of course, is one of the tasks of achieving – and I say – the economic policy of our community improves, and it has to set goals. And to set goals, we have to plan. And if we talk about planning, I'm telling you here that I hope it's not like your strategic plan. The Strategic Plan Galicia 2010-2014 had a 6 billion deviation from the 45,000 million it had budgeted. I mean, a variation of 6,000 out of 45,000. I hope your plan isn't like that.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u165	Finish it, Mr. Santín.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u166	And by the way, to finish, to tell you that when you make tax inspection plans, you have to do them in advance. You can't go out in April, Counselor, you have to go out in December. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u167	Thank you very much, Mr. Santín. People's Group. Mr. Puy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u168	Thank you very much, President. On the thread of the interventions, the counselor mentioned something that was later mentioned by other spokespersons, that some see the glass half full and others see the glass half empty. This brought me to memory an article that recently published a Welshman in a national newspaper, in a newspaper in Madrid, Manuel Jabois, about his visit to the exhibition by Arc, in which Cuban Wilfredo Prieto introduced this year, in the last edition he just closed, a work of art that consisted of a glass that was half full, or that was half empty, as he looked at it, and cost 20,000 euros that work of art. Jabois was joking by saying that he probably included the lord who fills the glass a bit each time a part of the water evaporates. In that article, he mentioned – the article, by the way, was entitled Nor did we sell or rent – he commented, that the same Cuban the previous year had already called attention to Arc because what he had presented to the exhibition was an electric stretcher with six keypads that was plugged into itself. It cost 15,000 euros. What the artist said is that the important thing is not the object, but the idea behind it, a cable that plugs itself in, which nullifies the concept. The truth is, after listening to some of the interventions that preceded us, Counselor, here gives the impression that some spokespersons are plugged in on themselves. Nothing's changed here, let's go worse. There is no future, no recovery. The amount of data you have given – by the way, with a lot of restraint and with a lot of recognition that the situation is not yet what we would like – is not worth anything, we liquidate the boxes -- we're finally plugged in on ourselves. [[Applause]] It is the same opposition that recently – more than 2013 – called Feijóo reactionary for not expanding the Greek deficit, and they accused him – precisely for not incurring more deficits – of generating more debt, of following a criminal strategy. Well, that's what there is. The debt is evident that it has grown. And it is clear that in Galicia it has grown much less than in the rest of the autonomous communities – as the councillor has well explained – in order to continue to finance the activity of an autonomous community that spends 80 percent of its budgets on social expenditure. So there was a prudent indebtedness that put us down in relation to GDP, in relation to income, in relation to non-financial expenditure; any variable you want to take, gives the idea that there is an evolution of reasonable debt. In the same way, I wanted to insist too. I understand that you compare with Andalusia, but it is that in Andalusia – where there is also a continuity in the Government we respect, which is the popular will of Andalusia–, man!, the last Epa that gives in Galicia a rate of 20.9%, in Andalusia gave a rate of 34.2%. As you will understand, I prefer to evolve as Galicia evolves as Andalusia evolves, because, of course, Galicia remains below average; the Spanish average is 23.7% and in Andalusia is 34.2%. Perhaps that's why this is the example that follows, and not the example of the Greek, who has – as I say – the job is unfortunately very high; fortunately much lower than other autonomous communities who have applied court recipes proposed by the Socialist Group. I think the advisor has clear which are the priorities of his department:
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u169	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u170	...consolidate economic recovery and consolidate growth creation. I agree with the Socialist spokesman that he has a lot to do: ensuring budgetary stability, maintaining financial autonomy, continuing to modernise administration, effectively implementing Community funds and approving a strategic plan that – I insist – will constitute a revolution. Obviously, it's an effort that basically falls on a citizenship that we hope will soon begin to feel real economic recovery. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u171	Thank you very much. You have the floor to close the debate, Mr. Valeriano Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u172	Thank you again, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are already immersed in the second part of the legislation, at a time when Galicia has ahead of us the fundamental challenge of consolidating and strengthening the economic recovery that began last 2014. As I pointed out in my first intervention, all the work done in recent years has not been in vain, and now we are beginning to recover the fruits of that work. At this point, we can look at the future with optimism, without lowering our guard, but with much better prospects than we had at the beginning of the legislation. Today Galicia is creating jobs, and today Galicia records positive growth rates following the greatest economic crisis that has experienced our Autonomy. Now is the time to put all our efforts to continue on this line, so that 2015 will be a year even better than the previous one. There is no doubt that Galicia will remain a community of reference in financial stability, because we continue to think that the main path to creating sustainable growth in the medium and long term remains financial stability. To do the opposite would risk our future and also the future of the Greeks that will come after us. But we do not give up making further reforms to deepen the efficiency of the administration, adapting it to new times. That's why we have new challenges to achieve greater use of resources, more efficient management and more rigorous evaluation of results; ultimately, a 21st century administration. So in this second part of the legislation we will continue to take measures to boost economic recovery and the growth of our economy; measures to strengthen job creation; measures to continue improving management, being increasingly efficient; measures to continue shielding social spending and improving our public services; measures to maintain our financial autonomy and to take every moment the best decisions for Galicia; measures to maintain the sustainability of the autonomous Fair, because it is the best service we can do for the Greeks. Measures to further modernise and professionalise public employment; measures to give back to our workers the effort they have made in recent years; measures to set a planning strategy by 2020, in line with the new Community framework. Finally, we will continue to take steps to improve the present and future of the Greeks. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u173	Thank you very much, Counselor. We suspended the session until this afternoon at 6:00 p.m., 5 p.m. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u174	Ladies and gentlemen, before we start the development of the agenda, I would like to ask all Members and Members of the House a minute of silence for those who died in the tragic aviation accident that took place this morning, and a message of support and solidarity to families and close relatives. And I also want to remember, like not!, the two sailors who died in Laxe as well. So please a minute of silence.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u175	Thank you very much. Let's restart the motion session. G.P. motion. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr Pablo García García, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in relation to the dairy sector
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u176	This motion has been tabled with an amendment by the Joint Parliamentary Group. Mr. García has the floor to formulate the motion.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u177	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, everyone. We brought this motion, as a result of the inquiry we made at the previous session to the Middle Rural Counsellor, to try to make an assessment on that occasion of the amendment of the decree which developed the milk package, in which we also denounced, once again, the passivity of this Government as regards the dairy sector, which represents the inoperation and lack of leadership by the Council of Galicia as a whole, the Councillor, Mr Feijóo, with one of the most important and most representative productive sectors in this country. Management, in all that has been the development of that regulation, for us – and we have already stated it here – was a real hat and an authentic example of this lack of political initiative, or lack of knowledge of the operation of the sector, so to be kind in the way of thinking. And, of course, a total abandonment of the producer sector, which is what Galicia primarily brings in this sector. We also questioned the advisor and criticized his irresponsible management in recent months as regards the supertax, or the supertax that he announced, catastrophic, which in the background will be no less. And we told him that he was still very pleased with his management that the Galicians had to rent quota this last year of the system based on that campaign, based on that information, to sacrifice animals, to sell animals, ultimately losing positions, and now, within a week, at the start of the new liberalisation system, no doubt, production and production volume is one of the fundamental bases. This campaign was carried out by the ministry, with the unrelenting and totally irrelevant accompaniment by the Counsellor and the entire Cabinet of Galician Union. As we have already said here, nothing has ever said, nothing has ever done, there has never been a position, there has never been a demand. Now that we're on the 24th day, so just a week ago that the quota system disappears and that, therefore, definitely if you know the data, the general director in a talk -- I think it was in the county of Xallas -- kept saying that we're at high risk and, therefore, that the less-produced netizens, much better, and adjusted to the quota. At the end of that system, with the inoperative decree – as we say – working, we don't know anything about the new contracts, most of the yellow thugs are out of contract from day one; we don't know anything about whether there are contracts; we don't know anything about whether there is negotiation; we don't know anything about prices, and the Junta and the advisor, the whole council, continues to dive into that pre-election, making the accounts by the comarcas, the false accounts that – and unfortunately – will end up, again, blowing up in the noses where they are false accounts. But right now they're dedicated to that, going to the comarcas by making the accounts of the funds that will come with the new CAP and that will arrive in that new period. That's right, you're making the accounts of what's going to touch each county and selling those fake numbers, but the program and application to request the new CAP – which has almost been open for a month now – by the Council is still not working; that's to say, today we can't ask for the new CAP because we don't have the new application running. And we introduced, in some way – let's go, the advisor's head – an issue that, since this was introduced to the agenda, until it was discussed, for this reason of parliamentary proceedings, so much so that then we would be willing to sell the People's Party this of the agility and closeness of Parliament, a fact that is not negligible, which was the knowledge of that dossier of the National Competition Market Commission that came to impose that 88.2 million fine on different dairy industries by agreeing prices and by sharing the livestock. Report on what has been said in many media and forums, and of course throughout the sector. Everyone who somehow has something to do with that sector at that time and day was talking about this report. In short, I believe that from all over the world that has some sort of implication; incredibly not for the counselor, who had not done it in the previous plenary or today, and deserved no sort of analysis. Moreover, at that time the Counsellor said to me, and she even handed the President a report from the Galician Competition Council, a report that, of course, I already knew – and it is not vain to take advantage of anything, it is a simple obligation – where she herself came to recognize that this report that she knew of three years ago, and that it had also been prepared at the instances of the German Government, she was already ahead and collecting everything that she later learned and everything that came after giving rise to that fine from the National Competition Market Commission. What Mrs. Counselor didn't say is that she had done with that report. What you came here to say is that you had a report that already said all that, but you didn't say if you had taken any action with that report, because you didn't report it, it had to be the producers who reported it. By the way, the producers and a report similar to what the Counsellor had, who had prepared the Castile-Leon Competition Defense Service. And the Defence Service of Castile-Leon Competition, once he had the report and had those conclusions, he raised it up and denounced it to the National Competition Market Commission. The report to the advisor served to bring me here the other day, but he did nothing at all, all this time, absolutely no use of it. After all this, after what was said here the other day; after even one of the most – I believe it will happen to history – brilliant interventions that were in a commission of a director general, later, after knowing all that this report collects, the other day – I believe that it was also in Santa Comba in the speech this, pre-electional – the Counsellor said – read it textually, and then I will take advantage to ask you at the next initiative whether it has been picked up wrong –: "The Administration has a neutral role between producers, industry and distribution, since all parts are necessary." I mean, after what the report of the National Competition Market Commission says, after it finds out, fines and punishes industries for their abusive practices, what our advisor says, the Rural Media Advisor, and what she thinks, is that it has to be neutral. So we've drawn up a motion – and we're going to the motion already – first, with two premises. We have almost nothing left to propose that you, gentlemen of the People's Party, would not put us down. As for the decree, it is already changed. We proposed that you introduce a number of things that you didn't want. We don't have much left to propose on the subject of the supertax because there's a week left for the period to end. We have almost nothing left, no measure whatsoever, to vote here, therefore, the only novelty that we could introduce. and that I think it's no less, it's deep in what could be a political action on the basis of that judgement of the National Competition Market Commission. We think it's a deeper way. We think it can be a source and keep working in that direction too to help producers. So our motion goes in that direction. What do we intend or ask? Try first that the imposed sanction returns to the producers. The report says they stole 800 million from the producers and they have to pay 10%, 88 million – 880 million from the producers. So when a thief steals a bank and recovers the banks, the first thing to do is to pay back the money to whom he stole it, then the thief will be worth it, he will have the trial and all that; but at least the money that is shown to have been stolen from the producers, will return to the producers. That research should be extended to distribution, because this complaint at its time by the producers not only covered these practices which were condemned, but would go further, and denounced the practices carried out by the distribution, both in the sales for loss and offering milk as a claim product, as well as in dumping, import of milk tanks for a price under the payment or purchase to producers. So we think there's still work to be done there. Make a systematic plan of inspections and sanctions, if relevant, on commercial areas. We believe, moreover, that it is a way to work and that it thus obliges the law itself of the food chain. I'm done, president. And establish a permanent forum at the German level of producers, industry and distribution. It doesn't seem to us to receive that there is no such thing in this community after what's going on in the sector. To develop a budget to alleviate the possible negative effects, especially at the beginning of this new system without quotas, which are doing other communities, and which will make Galicia, if not, compete in inferior conditions. And that the Galician Competition Council develops the protocol; that it not only remains in the report to bring us here the advisor, but to develop the actions from that information which he owns. This is the motion that we submit to consideration, and in which we hope to count – this time yes – with the support of all groups. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u178	Thank you, Mr. García. Joint Parliamentary Group. Mrs. Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u179	Thank you, President. Good afternoon to all and to all. The Joint Group will support this motion presented by the Socialist Party in support of the dairy sector, to end the situation that has been going on in recent years and which is especially difficult today. In addition, it is essential to take advantage of the disappearance of the dairy quota to advance on the R & D+i in the dairy industry, in the fight against the abuses of large food supply chains, and ultimately to jump through a competitive Greek dairy sector. A sector crushed by the imposition of quotas that tarnished the right development possibilities that were at the end of the eighties of the last century. A sector crushed by the policies brought forward by the alternance parties, which ended up turning much of the state market into foreign production, and of which not only resulted in the disappearance of most of the family farms, but also the survivors were pushed into a landless production model, while much of the grass remained useful agrarian surface. After condemning production to be limited by a political decision, they encouraged or forced farmers and farmers who dared to continue in the sector, to invest in large sums of money in purchasing production rights that are now useless, by another political decision. In addition to these reasons, milk is a strategic sector for Galicia, for the population it can use, and for the positive impact it has on combating the depopulation of rural areas, the abandonment of lands and fires. Also, because of the multiplier effect it has on GDP; it is estimated that for each euro of agrarian production GDP increases additional EUR 1.5. It is necessary to support a strategic sector that needs it, a defenseless sector against the power of dairy companies, when we lack a group of Greek milk that had to be launched with the millions of euros that the Union has put in the hands of its friends for those who bury the fiasco that they had armed with milk. For these reasons, I will support the Socialist Party's motion, although I believe that it should be extended beyond the essential protection to existing farms and in the protection against the abuses – already demonstrated – of the National Competition Market Commission. I think we should be more ambitious, or, better said, more equitable, repairing the injured predators with the same content as the prejudice suffered by the oligopolitical practices of dairy companies. With a view to repairing the damage caused by oligopolistic practices, it's for which I presented a non-law proposal on the last day 6, which I now incorporate as an amendment and which I hope will be accepted by the Socialist Party. The amendment seeks to add at the end of point 5 the text which says: "and take advantage of the opportunity to increase family farms by recovering or creating new dairy farms". Also add a new point 7, which would say: "To ask the Government of the State to urgently change the sanctioning regime, the serious infringements to competition, so that the amount of sanctions to illegitimate profit is narrowly outweighed, ending with the current situation where fraud is a business for those who commit it." And also: "All sanctions are destined, never less than fraud, to compensate those directly injured by fraud." We hope that this amendment will be accepted, which simply seeks to compensate for the losses of the owners and the dealers for abusive practices of large dairy distributors. So, on our part, nothing else, we just hope that the amendment will be accepted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u180	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. Mrs. Peace.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u181	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Of course, in relation to the dairy sector, the political situation we have in this Parliament is rather picturesque, because the more the situation of dairy producers in our country gets worse, the more it requires them to self-dumping, that is, the more we force them on the part of the system that we have mounted in relation to the dairy sector to sell under the costs of production, the more we have to end up downgrading the initiatives that we are presenting in this Parliament, because we are really in such a critical situation that any small thing that the People's Party accepts would ask the Government to do in relation to the dairy sector would almost already be a lot. We started here, probably over a year ago, from the opposition groups asking the Government of the Union to open a debate on how the decree regulating the milk package should be amended so that it would really be an effective tool for the service of the Greek livestock farms, to ensure that milk production is an economical activity I say no longer profitable, but sustainable, for people who practice it. And we started, in addition, by providing the support of parliamentary groups to set up this position with the Government and the dairy sector, and we are, a year and peak after, when it was already three weeks ago that the dairy decree was published, in an increasingly deteriorating situation, and in which the Union, clearly, pulled out the towel and lowered its arms and gave up doing any kind of action. It should be recalled that in August the Rural Councillor came out with an agreement with the minister in which it was supposed to have reached a principle of commitment that certain initiatives would be contained in that decree to ensure a certain negotiating capacity for the sector. We now have an published decree, which we have not just seen what is the purpose of that decree, since it goes without three essential things that should exist in the dairy decree: first, real negotiating capacity and not imposing by the milk price industries in origin; there are no guarantees for the owners and the owners to receive remuneration for the costs of production and for their work at the price of milk; there are no guarantees – and this is especially serious – on a liberalised stage from 1 April that the milk produced by our owners will be collected; above all no instrument is established to ensure that the neutrality of the counsellor already on many occasions we would like it to be neutral, right, Mr García?, because what is clearly an exorcise on both the law and the action of the various governments in favour of large distributors and in favour of large industries. The last example we had just three weeks ago, when the National Competition Commission imposed a penalty of EUR 88.2 million on the industries, because it was strongly shown that there was price agreement to premeditately lower the original prices. At that moment, we didn't see or hear a single statement from the Galician Union to see what they had planned to do to protect the owners, nor a single statement from any political leader of the People's Party's Party's governments. What if we had to hear Mrs. Minister say that she hoped this sanction would not harm the industries. And indeed, the livestock know they won't harm the industries, because they've already announced a new drop of two cents for every liter of milk they produce, surely to amortize them this penalty that is imposed on the industries, precisely by cheating them. We are, therefore, ladies and gentlemen, facing an initiative that aims to address very basic issues, but which are very relevant in the food chain. Why does it never act on the distribution, which is the end result being, finally, what sets the prices of the milk in origin?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u182	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u183	Look, I think any of us who go to any supermarket can find offers where milk ends up being 28 cents for sale in supermarkets. We ended up selling offers to give you the milk for buying Coca-Cola. We ended up seeing offers that are a real banalization of milk. And – as I know – neither the Galician Union, nor the Government of the State, with all the inspection instruments it has, which could, at least, launch some warning to these commercial areas, to those distributors, never acted to avoid that trivialization of the price of milk, which ends up conditioning that the owners...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u184	Thank you, Mrs. Paz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u185	...have to give it. That is why we are going to support this initiative and believe that the People's Party, being such a minimal initiative and that, of course, it does not involve any public expenditure, should also support it. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u186	Thank you, Mrs. Paz. Parliamentary Group of the Left Galician Alternative. Mr. Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u187	Good afternoon. I think that, in addition to neutral, the neutral that the Rural Middle Council is colourless, insensitive and innocuous, it's as if there was no Rural Middle Councilman, it's like there wasn't president of the board when we talk about the dairy sector. The abandonment and abandonment of functions is so evident that it is difficult to believe that we are in the country that counts with 40% of the milk production of the Spanish State. It's hard to believe that a sector that is strategic to our rurals has so little political weight on the part of their government. Well, in addition, the only difference there is today with respect to the end of 2012 is that the prices of oil, for reasons other than – I believe – to Mr. Feijóo's politics, are far below those times, and fortunately the prices of inputs are not as high as at that time; otherwise we would be the same. Nothing has changed. In 2012, Mr. Feijóo signed an agreement with agricultural organizations, in which he committed himself primarily to two things: to lead in the drafting of the Food Chain Law (leading it is very wrong, by the way) to introduce a reference price based on production costs, a reference system and a mediation system. We've seen how it's over, we've seen what big changes. See if, at the end of 2012, when that convention was signed, they read the wording of the Food Chain Law and see if it was introduced under Mr. Feijó's leadership the concept of reference price in milk. Well, no. He lied, knowing he was doing it, but he lied to demobilize the industry's mobilisations at that time. It has also committed itself to improving politics in land mobility, promised by the People's Party many years ago, which, after almost thirty years in the Government, we see what the data are like. Therefore, the Galician Union is colourless, insidious and innocuous. On 24 March 2015, the distribution continues to use milk and other foods as a claim product. The low prices of these claim products end up affecting the moneylenders. Nothing has been able to change this situation, nor the milk package, nor the law of the food chain. In spite of that, the Galician Union does not recognize the slightest mistake, and the Counsellor is going through different forums saying that the end of quota systems is a great opportunity for the yellow gandlers. He doesn't explain why, the important thing is to repeat it many times, he doesn't give any argument why, and he doesn't give any argument about what the Galician Union did for that to be an opportunity. Because, despite the fact that we are against the system that you defend, we speak of market dictatorship – you speak of market freedom – because that means – what you call market freedom – that the owner does not have the slightest freedom to negotiate a price or the terms of sale. And that's the reality of the market dictatorship. But I do not say what you contribute to that free market, because in that free market experts agree that they are competitive advantages for the dairy sector, for example not to depend, reduce dependence on inputs, reduce dependence on oil derivatives, etc. What have you done in this respect, because we have the highest production costs in Europe, in a country that has the ideal edaphoclimatic conditions to produce on a ground basis, and not to produce on the basis of the dependence of thought and food coming from another side of the Atlantic. I mean, on this, which depended on you, I'm suspended. Another competitive advantage is the existence in this country of a commercial processing complex to achieve value added products. It is essential to compete at the global level. As long as we only have liquid milk, that is, as always, our economy based on low value added products, because the only thing we can compete is how the countries of the third world compete: by lowering the living conditions of people, exploiting more and more the owners. Because, of course, during these thirty years you have not been able to develop an industrial policy in the dairy sector, already completed by the example of Milk Food, the food fiasco, of course!, the milk fiasco. You can see with that frivolity, and with that cliental and friendly mentality, you managed one of the most important challenges in the dairy sector in this country, using public money to spend it with your friends, putting two political leaders of the People's Party ahead of you, even though you had not proven in your life management ability to develop what should be – according to Mr. Juárez – the great group of Greek milk. Well, it's already seen that the great group of Greek milk remained. Therefore, the gainees did do their homework. Any yellow gain or gain, at the level of professionalism, production techniques, etc., has fulfilled its duties. What failed here was politics, the politics of his government. In the challenges, in the structural problems, you failed. And as they also had no position in the face of the negotiations of the common agricultural policy. They had no position in the reform of the milk package, which we know. The dairy package has been reformed and the mediator's figure is put, but it's optional, when both parts want. That's like saying it's useless. Nothing more and thank you very much. We will support the Socialist Party's motion.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u188	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. People's Parliamentary Group. Mrs. Garcia Pacín.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u189	Well, thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, ladies. We really don't hear anything new today, but by focusing on the initiative and on the six points that socialists propose, I want to comment to you again, Mr. Garcia, on the figures that you say are propaganda and that they – I don't know – are false or certainly have no importance to highlight. I believe that what really bothers you is that when negotiations between communities and the Ministry, when the aids from the CAP were discussed for the next period and, above all, the payments coupled, because the good results that have reached our community, the good results that have achieved the coupled productions, as is the case with the beef cattle and, above all, the dairy sector, I believe that this is what really bothers you, and time will give or will take reason to those who allegedly fake this data. But we understand that this data is a faithful reflection of the Council's bet, the Government of Greece, especially by a strategic sector that we have been defending since 1st minute since 2009, and that you are from the opposition if you have a disgust, undo or try to undo a consensus that has been reached, Mr. Sánchez; if you have scheduled commitments and not to avoid mobilizations. Because there was no doubt in you: Milk foods failed, yes, Mr. Sánchez; but, in the face of Milk Food, there were other important projects that if they followed forward, even though they do not remember, although the advertising you are trying to transmit from the opposition is, above all, negative. Because insults, disqualifications towards both spokesmen with responsibilities in the parliamentary group in defending production and the primary and government sectors because they are the norm. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And that really says very little of an opposition, an opposition that is allowed to be supplanted by agricultural organizations, which is left, as Mrs. Paz says, to reap with false generosity the initiatives to seek a consensus. Ladies and gentlemen, this consensus cannot be given when what is intended, what is demanded, is illegal, is out of the norm, when it is intended or referred to as mandatory mediation, when you know that there are regulations, both Europeans and nationals, which define that mediation cannot be mandatory, that it has a voluntary character. We're really talking about the fact that the amendment of this decree is not going to bring anything new. For we understand that yes, and for that it is done, and the results and the facts will show that we are right. You speak on points, specifically at the first point, of a help program. Both the first point and the fifth point are two demands, two agreements that you try or seek are economic aids. I remind you once again: the payments coupled to the beef sector represent EUR 321 million, and specifically for milk we went from 57 million from the previous period to 94 in the next period, with an important increase, Mr. Garcia, although you don't look like it, even though you say it's fake. This will allow our livestock owners, where they used to charge EUR 27 per cow in normal areas, almost 75 in disadvantaged areas, to charge EUR 118 per cow; where there was a right to 53% of the cabin, there would now be a right to 100% of the cabin. Mr. Garcia, I know you don't like it, but this is the data, the negotiations of the People's Party's governments that will bring prosperity to the sector, in particular to the dairy sector, on these horizons that you hope will be harmful. We, yes, Mrs Paz, as I said very well, understand that, in addition to opportunities, it will be especially a necessity for the sector to consolidate production, because the spokeswoman in the Joint Group said that we condemned producers to have to produce milk without a territorial basis. Mr. Garcia, you don't manipulate the figures. You know that the Galician community has been one of the only communities where the territorial base of the farms has been substantially increased, the UAE per exploitation, and where you know that all...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u190	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u191	...consumptions are not just ovens. You know that we in Galicia have produced well and all the inspection plans, sanctions, that Mr. García is trying to sue or in his initiative he really contemplates, Mr. Garcia, you know that they are being carried out with the collaboration of the Community of Galicia. Home!, Galician leadership you don't recognize it, but you know that your fellows in other communities put Mr. President of Galicia...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u192	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u193	... Mr. Feijóo, as a great defender of the producer sector against the distribution...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u194	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u195	...in front of the industry. And you laugh, but I think the hemerotheque is there and we are all aware of the needs of the sector, of the support of our government and of the support – it cannot be otherwise – political, but exclusively seeking to defend the interests of the producer sector...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u196	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u197	...not looking for political performances, as you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u198	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u199	Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u200	Thank you, Mrs. García Pacín. Motion author group. Mr. Garcia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u201	Thank you, President. Today I'm really not going to get angry, Mrs. Pacín, and I've done it, even with a bad body. I intend to keep it that way, by contrasting the bad example I put the other day to the advisor that after the minute of silence and all this, because he was going to talk about a motion that we've already discussed twenty times, like he doesn't give you the body. So, today, in spite of the pack of repetitive, topical and inconsistencies that you just did, I'm not going to change, which is what I would certainly do. Mrs. Pacín, leader? What leader? I mean, neither before with Mr. Cañete nor now with Mrs. Tejerina, the dairy sector is in the central government's agenda, so it's neither busy nor worried. And what is incomprehensible is the attitude, so that the Council of Galicia is simply a mere appearance, at most in a penitent manner. You said here several things: that the new decree had brought... what were you going to do... what brought the new decree? We already have the decree passed three weeks ago. We're about a week before the grievors' contracts expire and they have to start the new ones. What are you doing to Galician Union? How will these new contracts be? What the industry is telling you... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I'll give you a phone later... companion Marisol, give you the phone of the glove that you passed me the other day and give it to Mrs. Pacín, who gave you a call, when the industry arrives and tells you either sign 20 cents or stop milking on day 1. That glove is what you're listening to, because to me telling me those nonsense, but telling me, it's the least; the thing is that that gutter will be listening to what you said here today, and so you'll have to give an explanation. That glove can tell you everything you said here and paint it with pink. That gainer told the industry by his decree, by his modifications, by the well-being of his advisor, what his industry told him was that he either signed 20 cents -- 20 cents, yeah! -- or if he didn't stop picking his milk. And we're not talking about... we're talking about a farmer who delivers 4,000 liters a day. So that's the reality of the country, and, in the face of that, you, Mrs. Pacín, can say the stupid thing you want. So what did your new decree do? What did you bring with you? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u202	Not that phrase.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u203	I'll take it back. What brought you the new decree? What's the change? We understand that none. We understand that the advisor, at least as far as his actions are concerned, is not changing from modus operandi, we don't see that there is any kind of momentum for negotiation, we don't see that there is any kind of new action with respect to the other. With regard to the help of the CAP, we've already debated it many times, and, as you well say, time will give us and, in any case, we've already spoken and we'll talk about it again. What I don't understand, Mrs. Pacín, is that you don't agree with this, I don't understand, I really don't understand. Because, indeed, it was a motion, to put something different that we didn't put on, to make an impact on one aspect, which is on the subject of inspections and on the subject of distribution, and therefore I don't understand that you don't agree with this. I really can't understand it. What do you say you're-- how many reports did you raise in Galicia?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u204	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u205	There are autonomous communities that have imposed sanctions under the Food Chain Act. Galicia what did she do? Did I do anything? Or did she have him like the counselor's report? who said that he had the report three years earlier, indeed, that she had the report, but had done nothing to him, as many as read it, had not done anything at all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u206	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u207	What do you not agree with this? Mrs. Pacín, I understand that you have the directive to vote 'no' for voting 'no', and I understand it's very difficult to explain it, but you don't want to make us fool others. I mean, it's better if I say: there I can't support...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u208	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u209	...that he comes to us with arguments that make no sense. We are going to support the amendment of the Joint Group, because deep, although it does not bring great news, on the points that our motion had. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u210	Thank you, Mr. García. G.P. motion. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da María Carmen Gallego Calvar, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in relation to the employment situation of the staff of public care centres for persons with disabilities and the provision of comprehensive and quality care for users
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u211	No amendments were tabled to this motion. Mrs. Gallego has the floor for her defense.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u212	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. In the middle of the past, in the debate of the inquiry that gave rise to the motion that we present today, the Labour and Wellness Counsellor was unable, as it has been customary, to question or in court any of the data that we have brought into the debate since the Socialist Parliamentary Group to verify that the workers and workers of the centres and families of the people who are in the centres of the day or in the residences of older persons or in the residences of care for persons with disabilities have repeatedly denounced us for three years; data by which workers and workers of these centres have accumulated up to three judicial judgements won, which inevitably does not take effect because when judicial judgments are won has already spent the time applying the labour register, in this case every one of the years. I remember we're talking about the situation in which both workers and workers are living as well as people attending residences and public centers dependent on the Labour Council. Installations of many of them – as we said in the last session – that have devices from the 1970s or the 1990s, which have not been remended, that installations have not been modernized in both their architectural aspect and with the provision of new material means that facilitate the work of women and men who are developing attention to older people, minors and people with disabilities in these centers. Installations that, in addition to not having modernization in what it has to do with its facilities – it is worth redundant – or material means, are also suffering a brutal cut in staff; cuts in staff that cumulatively in the six years of Mr. Feijóo's government reach 1,500 people, between directly removed jobs or amortized jobs. Installations of which from the Socialist Parliamentary Group we were teaching here a series of photographs that provided us with the workers themselves and workers of these centres, in which literally the older people who went to certain centers had to sleep in the nap, i.e., rest after lunch, in gym mattresses of 5 to 7 centimeters of thickness, thrown on the floor. Photograph which seems to have made a lot of effect to the work and well-being advisor, because when I was here talking and teaching her, she said from her seat of the blue bench that as it was that there were no beds in those centers. Well, I'll explain today. There were no beds in those centers because they're day centers and there's no beds in the day centers. What if there are mattresses for people to sleep in the nap, instead of having a number of suitable facilities for older people, especially those who are users of these centers, to be able to rest there after lunch. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Well, what we're thinking is very simple: that all the cuts that have been applied in the area of staff at these centres since Mr Feijó's rule have been rebounded; that is to say, the jobs that have been abolished or amortized in these public centres have been resettled to at least the level of the year 2009. We're not saying that 2009 was an optimal situation, but of course the ratio of a worker and attention to people with disabilities, or to older people or minors, was much higher than it is at present. At the same time as we make this proposal, we also want to claim that the agreements which the Union itself adopts are respected. If Junta has a V collective staff agreement, which turns out that it is systematically failing as regards weekly breaks, as for continuous working time – we're talking here about people who are working eight and nine consecutive days, people who are working three weekends consecutive week, people who have to make an impressive physical effort, which leads them to have lower annual periods longer and that they also have to resort to psychological care – for the normal thing is that the Government of the Union itself has respected the V Convention, which was what it signed; for it seems that the Government of the People's Party does not respect this V Convention, at least in terms of rest of staff or the quality of benefits. We also call for a clear motion to develop an investment to modernize buildings and restore the necessary materials so that full, public and quality care can be given to the people who use these centres, while improving also, by improving these investments and the material they need to develop their work, the conditions of the staff of this centre, the working conditions. We're talking about integral care, and I wanted to stop here a little, because lately, by the government's political decisions Feijóo, these centers, rather than paying full attention to users -- I insist: we're talking about older people, people with disabilities or minors -- what they look like are people's stores, literally. I told him one of my fellow parliamentary groupmen, following the debate of this plea, in a question that asked the counsellor, as in a residence in Lugo province, the older people lay down to sleep dressed, because they had no one to help them do something as simple as spitting. Because it turns out these centers aren't to park people there. They are centers in which, in addition to meeting the needs of people with mobility difficulties, or without mobility difficulties, in addition to ensuring a proper diet, for a proper hygiene, there is also a need to stimulate and stimulate those people, so that their quality of life is better. And it has recently disappeared from the budgets of the Galician Union any kind of budgetary resource for these people to have these activities of stimulation, those activities of leisure, of sprinkling, of personal enrichment of culture that they had so far. And it sadly turned these centers the Government of Mr. Feijóo into literally stores or parking loters of people. And all of this doesn't happen by chance, because if we see the budget cut data from the Labour and Welfare Council over the past six years, we'll realize that, in addition to removing staff, not investing in material resources in these centres, not modernising them, the Labour Council cut nothing less than 535 million euros in social policy. And that impacts, because it's not true, as I said in that debate, that more can be done with less. Less is done and more is harmed by those who need the public and public policies most in order to be able to have a decent quality of life, and above all a dignified quality of life when life is coming to an end. Again, in these debates, the Work and Wellness Councillor came to tell us that the world was wonderful and that they had created many public squares. So much so, so much so that the worker's advisor in propaganda and advertising has passed from freezing that, around fifteen days, all of a sudden, many more public squares have appeared than in the debate of the previous interpellation, which had been in the previous plenary. And as we had the precaution and print of the debates that the work counselor had held in the previous plenary, because we could show here that one or two weeks ago there were 7,800 public squares, two weeks before there were 7,000, that is, in two weeks, 800 were created, as compared to the global, but it's that in childhood schools suddenly one week, 500 squares were created, and yet for people with disabilities – he escaped the data – he suddenly lowered the squares of people with disabilities in a week as well. Well, this is an absolute frivolity, the treatment with which the Labour and Wellbeing advisor makes these kinds of debates, and here comes he boasts of public squares created by the government Feijóo. The reality is quite different; I insist: the families and the people who work at these centers are often told. And in addition to all the squares that have been created in recent years, and all the centers that have been opened in recent years, we have already said it here more than once, the Government of Feijóo may assume that he has opened one in eighteen in some cases, in four in twenty-six, and most of the competitions for the management of the centres that have been opened, in this case public centers, went to private entities, not even to social-initiative entities. What do I mean by this? For what happens to the public centers that depend directly on the Labour and Welfare Council is what happens to the rest of the welfare policy of the Government Labour Council Feijóo...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u213	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u214	...that there is a very clear ideological roadmap, to disassembly the public and to divert the attention of these people to private businesses. We have to give business to our friends. We've said so many times here. Of course, the socialists are not going to comply with this situation, we are going to demand that what has been taken from the Labour and Welfare Council, in this case to the public centers of the Labour Council, because we understand that...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u215	End, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u216	...people who attend these centers, both day centers and residences, are people who need that service, and, especially in the case of older people, they are people who must have a decent standard of living at the end of their lives, and we won't...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u217	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u218	...to conform to what the People's Party Government is doing. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u219	Thank you, Mrs Gallego. Joint Parliamentary Group. Mrs. Churches.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u220	Good afternoon. Thank you, President. Another initiative this time of the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party. Let me tell the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party my congratulations on the results in the Andalusian elections. Well, this Socialist Party initiative is made up of those that have already been presented by the other opposition groups, including the Joint Group, to try to resolve the conflict – the old conflict – which keeps Mrs Mato with the Working and Wellbeing Business Committee, because of the mismanagement of labour rights and the deterioration of user assistance. The committee repeatedly denounces – just as in this Chamber, also repeatedly, the situation is denounced – in front of the advisor's jury, that since the Council's management are imposing abusive work shifts and schedules, without respect for the rights of staff, the reconciliation of working and family life and the health of workers and users themselves. And so, they put in a collective conflict corresponding to the 2014 cartels, since, despite having recognized by sentence the right to negotiation and balanced cartels, the Labour and Welfare Council again imposes the same abusive and unbearable shifts, and they say they respect judicial decisions. It's turn – we repeat for the hundredth time – of seven days in a row, three nights in a row, all the holidays worked or just the week-end of every three. "Yes, bwuana," would be the right expression to abide by these slave labor conditions. The labour abuse that these care professionals are subjected to has its origin in the lack of qualified personnel needed to meet the care needs of these centres, which is why it is very striking, by the suspect, that in the advertised public job offer there is neither a single place for senior residences, juvenile centres and care centres for disabled persons, and that, according to the IGC union, only in the Coruña would be necessary to create 400 places in the job offer to meet the basic needs of the public welfare system. One last note is nothing more to not always repeat the same: because the infrastructure, the material and the resources, apart from the labour abuse in which the people who work in these centers are found, well, because the material and resources are damaged, they are obsolete, they are defective and scarce. We have to go back. It is that you show contempt for public services that can only be explained by your voracious privatising yearnings. They really change politics and think about citizenship and not about the economic benefit of private companies. Thank you very much, but nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u221	Thank you, Mrs Iglesias. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. Mrs. Adam.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u222	Thank you, President. Good afternoon to all and to all. As the spokespersons who preceded me in the use of the word have already commented on, this is an issue that has repeatedly arrived in the House, both in plenary and in commission, and it is – we can say – an absolutely incredible topic, because the Labour and Wellness Council rightly did what it did since the take-up of the Government Feijóo was to those and to the workers of that council, essentially those who work in direct contact with people every day, because it subject them to a regime that breaks entirely with the V Convention, adopted in 2008. It has also been explained here that, in addition to the reduction in RPT jobs, in addition to redeploying workers from the dependency area, the Risk Management Area, because it has subjected its own public centers to significant deterioration due to the lack of care. Surprise: a few days ago in the Industry Commission, the director of the Innovation Agency himself appeared and assumed in front of his appearance that one of the basic axes of European funds managed through the so-called RIS3 is innovation in the management of dependency and care for older people. The truth is, for those and those of us in the commission, it was surprising that he made that reference when we first-hand met – because they made it known to both the family members and the workers themselves, the employer's own committee of staff at the Labour and Welfare Council – the situation in which the public centres are located. Faced with that – it has already been exposed by the spokespersons who preceded me – the situation in which the private centres are located, and also in those public centers whose management is in the hands of private companies, which was one of the advisor's bets nothing more to take possession, and I think that there the data is unquestionable, and then we will also deal with them on an initiative regarding the conversion of the same Equality and Welfare Services Consortium into the Galician Welfare Agency. Given this situation, the Galician Nationalist Block is going to vote in favour of this motion, and it wants to underline so much the contradictory situation that this councillor lives, i.e., a counselor who takes in his name the title of work and that his welfare centres are submitting them to an almost-slavery regime situation, which leads to a very low level of employment, to a real job-burning situation of his workers, and who have to go to the judges, to win the sentences, and yet they get them now recently received their own Labour and Welfare Adviser. The truth is, this council is giving evidence of anything but being able to manage well-being in Galicia, having zero empathy with dependents, with people who suffer the situation of social exclusion to a greater degree, and above all with older people. That is why we hope that this initiative will also be voted on since the People's Party, although we have little hope, because it is a repeated initiative in this Parliament, and that makes it clear – as I have already said – that in the Labour and Welfare Council, after six years, its balance is really black. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u223	Thank you, Mrs. Adam. Parliamentary Group of the Left Galician Alternative. Mrs. Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u224	Thank you, President. Well, we're going to support this motion, as well as the position our group has in maintaining on this subject and the situation, the conditions of slavery to which it practically submits the Labour and Welfare Council to public workers and workers. There are several initiatives – it has been said here – initiatives that have been transferred to this House on this subject and it seems that the Government continues to welcome them with total indifference; the same indifference with which they receive them – when they receive them – workers and workers, because since 2012, since the amendment of the Fifth Collective Convention, meetings with the Administration have been useless, not taking up any of the demands of the representatives of the workers and trivializing a situation that is unfortunately very serious not only for the staff but obviously for the people who use the services. We have already denounced here on several occasions the conditions under which they develop their work the templates, for example, of the residence of Oleiros – there has been little discussion of it – for example. On 4 March, I was the one who was asking the Labour and Wellness Council about the situation there and what measures they were planning to take and why a psychosocial risk study was not conducted. We denounce the situation, the casualties that are taking place due to the highest workload in a center because, as we said earlier, he is an average age of 84-year-old residents, and 80% of them with cognitive deterioration, 57% with senile dementia, 13% with psychiatric diseases, and in which only about 6% are independent for the basic activities of daily life. And in these conditions they have a thinner template and no material means, because today, in addition to the personnel cuts – as has already been said here – they have to endure because the cuts of materials, from the most basic, from the leathers to the technical supports and aids. The absence of specific protocols, and it's not like we say it anymore, is that neither the opposition groups in general, nor the unions, nor the workers and the workers. In addition, last week a sentence was handed down that annulled a sanction against a worker of Oleiros, against whom there is no recourse, and which records the absence of sufficient staff. He says: Justice states that there is a clear lack of staff to care for residents who are the reason of two nursing assistants per forty-four residents in a very serious dependency situation. You will understand your lords that it is thus impossible to provide quality care. We don't know if the Council will take any kind of action before this judgment. And although it is true that we already know how successful the judgments are before the Council of Welfare, because, as has already been said here, two judgments won before the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia and one more recently referred to the work shifts this year and Mrs. Mato because she continues to apply the same conditions one year after another, regardless of whether workers and workers have their rights now not only recognized by their own labour rights but also backed by the judgments of the High Court of Justice. The People's Party, with the approval of Law 1/2012, which suppresses Article 19 of the V Collective Convention on Public Administration, voluntarily decided to once again attack workers and public workers and with it the public services themselves. More than 1,000 jobs have been removed between the RPT and the task accumulation posts and, in addition, all those jobs derived from the coverage of vacations, casualties, etc., etc. And, therefore, workers and workers are in a situation that we have already reported here, which is practically slavery, in which they accumulate up to nine consecutive days, in which they have to do three nights in a row, in which they only have one weekend a month – if they are lucky enough to free it – because often what the Administration does is to count their evening outings as free, which still doesn't work for the rest of the week. And so, they danced situations not only like that of Oleiros, but also like, for example, they denounced the workers and workers of the Gandaras residence, in which they said that this, coupled with their own appreciation of the situation of the dependents who are in that residence, happened that there was only in the shifts tomorrow an assistant for twenty-six senior people on the second floor and no assistant, no one in charge on the evening and evening shifts, which is extremely serious, who have to be other workers and workers in the center who move to care for them. The Observatory of Directors and Social Service Managers also warns Galicia to present one of the highest, highest-ranking government dependency waiting lists, 30%. They've got her ears. And, therefore, the welfare situation in Galicia is a disaster. It's a shame – and I'm finished now – that Mrs. Mato doesn't find out, because she practically doesn't step on any of the Wellness Council centers.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u225	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. People's Parliamentary Group. Mr. Tellado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u226	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, everyone. I have the feeling that with this initiative the Socialist Group is trying to cover the sun with a finger, right? They intend to draw attention to a specific judgment, a timely judgment on the procedure and the timing of the negotiation of the cartels of the Coruña residences, to conclude, the line followed, that this Board carries out social cuts in social services, privatizes public services. That's the speech the Socialist Party brings to us. The truth is, Mrs Gallego, this government has increased the number of squares in social centers in a decisive way over the past six years. What bothers you is that this government, from 2009 to 2015, has created 7,800 new squares in social centers. You are upset – and I deeply regret – that this government, in this period, has created 1,300 new squares in major residences. It bothers you that this government has created in this period 1,600 new squares in day centers. You're upset that this government has created 850 new squares in disability centers and 180 in centres specializing in alzeimer. And it bothers you that this government has created 3,800 new squares in children's schools, in fact, 500 in the last year, which will already be in operation in this new school. And it bothers them because this creation of squares takes place precisely at a time of budget reduction; 7,800 new squares are created at a time when the Galician Union has at its disposal EUR 2 billion less each year. That, Mrs. Gallego, is to do more with less, as much as the Socialist Party bothers you. And you are also upset that precisely the People's Party, the Government of Alberto Núñez Feijóo, has increased the social expenditure of the Galician Union in this period of budgetary restraints; 8 out of every 10 euros are allocated social policy at the moment, something that would not happen, by the way, when a supposedly progressive government ruled. And it's that when you ruled the Galician Union here the Dependency Act was dedicated to EUR 177 million of the budgets of the Galician Union. Today, in 2015, and with 2,000 million euros less each year in the budget of the Union, dependence 298 is destined; we, 298 million; you, 177. The same is true of Galician social integration income; you spent 22 million euros, we spent 48 million euros. The same goes for school lunchers; you dedicated 18 million euros, we dedicated 28 million euros. That's why we're not willing to accept this kind of demagogic lesson. In addition, there was talk of staff cutting at the Labour and Wellness Council, and what I have to say is that in this sense the Labour and Welfare Council has over 6,000 workers. And it's true there was depreciation of squares, precisely 437, but there was also creation of squares, 439; and in the Galician Consortium of Equality and Welfare, 323. There is therefore a positive balance of creating squares in the Council of Labour and Welfare of 325 new net direct jobs; this figure would also have to be added to the indirect jobs created by the Council of Labour and Welfare whenever squares are held in different centres. Workers and workers are, without a doubt, a fundamental pillar of the Labour and Welfare Council, to the extent that every day they provide a service of attention to older people, persons with disabilities and small ones. So what we regret is that you demagogy with these workers, because by saying the things that you say we understand that what you do is to miss those workers from Galicia. With regard to schedules and shifts, what I have to say is that, in any case, the number of hours worked by the staff of the Centres of the Council does not exceed 1,665 hours a year, which are those fixed by the Staff Regulations of Workers, and that breaks, both weekly and between days, are legal, according to the Staff Regulations of the Workers. You were talking about investments and that the Galician Union is spending this year EUR 700,000 on buying equipment to renew equipment in all the Council's residences. And what I have to remind you is that since 2009 and until today the Galician Union has dedicated 95 million euros to social investments. So that speech I'm sorry to tell you we don't share it. And you've done this at a time of budget reduction of 25% a year. So let's value the fact and not demagogy on these issues. As far as the sentence is concerned, I have to tell you that there is an open dialogue table by the Labour Council. Together is negotiating with workers' representatives better work for residential employees through new staff incorporations...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u227	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u228	...and other improvements in working conditions. There was a meeting between the General Secretariat of the Labour and Welfare Council on March 12th, and in the coming days the discussions will continue at this dialogue table with the representatives of the workers. So, as far as what you're proposing is already being done, we won't support your motion. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u229	Thank you, Mr. Tellado. Motion author group. Mrs. Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u230	Thank you very much, Mr. President. First of all, I would like to thank the Parliamentary Group of the Galego Nationalist Block, the Alternative Left Galaga and Mrs Iglesias, the Joint Group, for their support for this motion. And also, in particular, Mrs Iglesias, of the Joint Group, the recognition of the magnificent election result that the Socialist Party had in Andalusia. Mr. Tellado, probably in the middle of the debate, forgot to make this kind of appreciation; today he doesn't want Mr. Tellado to talk about Andalusia. [[Murmurs.]] Look, Mr. Tellado, when you come to make an intervention to talk about what the Labour and Wellbeing advisor does, I – that you are already an experienced deputy – would appreciate that, in addition to reading the argument that Mrs. Mato is having, you had been able to think a little about yourself. Because, of course, this speech that you have just said here from the rostrum, with falsehoods, you can tell it, for example, to the Centre of Care for Persons with Seriously Affected Coruña, which was the former Santiago Apostle; or in the centres of minors San Jose de Calanz, in Coruña; or the complex of care to minors of Ferrol; the assisted residence of the greatest of Oleiros; or that of Carballo; or that of the Poor of Caraminal; or that of Torrente Ballester, in Coruña; or that of Caranza, also in Ferrol; or that of the higher of the Road Door, in Santiago de Compostela; or that of the Volta do Castro, in Santiago de Compostela; or that of my previous intervention in Lugo – since my companion González Santin spoke in the past – or so many others of the province of Pontevedra and also of the province of Ourense. Public centers which Mr. Feijóo's government has abandoned, both its maintenance and the repositioning of material means, as well as destroyed jobs, between those which it amortized and those which it suppressed. And don't cheat, don't cheat. Don't come here to talk about the Galego Benestar Consortium's jobs. We're not talking about that, Mr. Tellado. We're talking about the jobs of the public centers dependent on the Council of Labour and Welfare, which was where they amortized and where the squares were deleted. Look, you don't know what I'm assuming, what kind of public squares I'm assuming, because, look, if we've been reviewing only since 2012 the adjudications of the Labour Council, we can observe that, of 28 adjudications made for the management of various centres, 18 were private companies and 10 were social-initiative entities. Mr. Tellado, at social expense, 8 points less today than when he began to rule Mr. Feijóo. I'm telling you that in these centers there's a lack of hot water, sometimes it's cold in the windows, there's humidity, the older people have to sleep on mattresses, the workers and workers have prolonged lows due to physical problems and psychological wear, because they take depression. That's what I'm talking about, Mr. Tellado, I'm not talking about propaganda and advertising. Look, and don't come up here with the Dependency Act, which you have 16,000 people waiting for, and for three years, 7,000 people who had the right to be recognized have died without being able to get the allowance for that right. Do you know what the Andalusians have done this time with Mr. Rajoy's cuts? Then replace Mr. Rajoy's cuts and don't make them pay the citizens. Do you know what you're doing, Mr. Tellado? By forcing families to pull people out of these centers, because in those centers they're not well cared for, and eventually they'll end up coming from private centers...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u231	Finish it, Mrs Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u232	...which is what you want to achieve: doing business, marketing attention to older people.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u233	Thank you, Mrs Gallego. G.P. motion. by Alternative Galaga de Left, at the initiative of Da Yolanda Díaz Pérez, on the elaboration by the Galician Council of a Galician industrial strategy and the actions to be collected
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u234	This motion was presented with an amendment to the Galician Nationalist Block.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u235	For the defense of the amendment, Mrs. Díaz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u236	Well, the truth is that we assume that, in view of the issue that we are going to deal with, and the concern that there will be in the People's Party, and even the concern that there must be in the People's Party of Ferrolrol about the profound social, economic and industrial crisis that the district of Ferrolterra is experiencing, we suppose that, after listening to the whole of the past, the Counsellor of Industry will support all groups, not only the opposition, but the majority group of the House, the motion with all and every one of the points that we have developed in it. I have to start by saying that, in fact, listening to the Councilman of Fairy in the morning, we agree on one of the things he said. He said something relevant. He said he saw the future with optimism and said – of course, and this is the only truth we will surely agree with him – that the goal of the Greek Government was to jump for financial stability and that, in addition, let's say that it could change the German Government. Indeed, this is a great truth, because this is the only sign of identity of the Government of Alberto Núñez Feijóo: to apply with rigour public deficit policies and to apply with absolute hardness the policies of austerity, which not only lead not to escape from the crisis, but to kill people and leave entire regions on the way, as is the case of the district of Ferrolterra. We are in a very serious situation, we are in a process of deindustrialization in our country, a process of deindustrialization that does not have to do with the so-called crisis. All economists and the studies we have on the table are talking about how structural it is and, in addition, it's been concealed since the People's Party in Galicia ruled. Since 2009, we've had value added to the manufacturing industry down by 21%. We're far away, we've lost two percentage points on the way. But not only that: we lost 60,000 industrial jobs, one out of every four jobs we lost are just right in the industrial sector. I don't know if you need to say here that for every industrial job you generate directly half a plus value added job or two value added jobs. I don't know if they're aware of what's going on or what's going on in our country. We are therefore completely alienated from the future of this country. Without industrialization, Galicia has no future. Without industrialization, there is no change in the production model, as the councillor of Fairy said in the morning. Without industrialization, the Feijóo Government will fail to comply with that which is so presumptuous and that we are fighting, which is precisely the agenda of the European Union, which, as you know, requires that in 2020 we devote 20% of European GDP nothing more and nothing less than to industrial policies. We fight the Government Feijóo model, which just as well goes through the back door, through the casino economy. I insist: no industry, no future in Galicia. And we are aware that there are structural imbalances in our country in the industrial model, we are aware of that, but that's why, more than ever, Alberto Núñez Feijóo and the advisor of Industry and Economics, absent, of course, would have had to do something in these more than six years that have been ruling our country. It doesn't also have to say that the countries that best have endured the so-called crisis, which is nothing more than a scam, are just the most industrialized countries. So, of course, we want to change the production model. We want substantially a new energy policy, because what the reports are pointing out is that in Galicia there are two deep loopholes in the industrial model: that we pay energy much more expensive than the rest of the state and the rest of Europe and also that financial costs are absolutely inaccessible to our country's industry. It turned economically what was going on. The labour costs, which are directly attacked by the Government of the People's Party, the call – between quotes – "wage devaluation", is not the cause of the situation in the industry we have in our country. We need, just as well, to increase the expenditure on R+D+i. You don't have to say "catastrophe" since the People's Party ruled in our country, the ranking we lost through the back door, just in this, more than 1,300 researchers and researchers who fled from our country because there was no future. It is not necessary to say that this European agenda is also pointing to us that we have to walk towards devoting 3% of GDP to nothing more and nothing less than R & D+i. You don't have to remind them that since the People's Party's rule, it's been cut and we've only spent 0.86% on such a sensitive subject. You don't have to tell them that we have development and therefore the application of ICT in our country's industrial sector. Today, teachers, teachers, students, and students are on strike, you don't need to tell them that we also need a new model of vocational training. Of course we need, exactly, all this. And we also need to leave some things clear, because finally, Mr. Alberto Núñez Feijóo told the truth, at last he recognized that when it comes to a substantial part of the industrial sector that has to do with the naval sector his policy is a real failure. Finally, we could hear it when the GDP decline data were published in relation to the state average. It's not true, as if he sold us the bike, that we're going better than the rest of the state average, no, we're going much worse. Our economy is getting smaller and smaller, not just because it's being retracted, but because the last quarter of GDP, which has been published these days, as you know, is going to mark the trend of the next year. And we're seven points away from the GDP growth of the state average. Galicia grew by 0.1% in the last quarter, while the state average was 0.7%. So, as Mr. Alberto Núñez Feijóo said, indeed, the cause of the deductiveness, that we have a smaller country, a smaller economy, is just the naval sector, indeed, and the automotive sector. It is the failure of the People's Party's politics. And we want, finally, to jump by those goals that we point out in our motion, and that I'm going to review very quickly. Some of them have to do with election promises from the People's Party, which I hope this time they vote favourably. We also want them to comply with the law of the Galician industry, which you, the People's Party, voted and approved in 2011. We agree: approve and design industry's master plan in our country, we agree on it. We'd like them to plan for us, tell us that they're going to live in industrial terms, or tell us clearly that we're going to dedicate ourselves to the casino economy, to Mr Feijóo's friends, by the way, to the bank. What do we ask for in this initiative? For something as simple as constituting a Welsh industrial institute, just to jump into the development of new public, social, private, diversification and also sustainability initiatives in industry. We call for the development of a clear strategy for the reindustrialization of our country by social agents and public institutions. We therefore want a future for Galicia. We also want the development of an industrial plan for Galicia of 60,000 jobs, I insist: posts that generate directly between 0.5 and 2 jobs that generate added value. We've lost more than 60,000 jobs in this so-called crisis. We also call for the definition of an industrial shock plan for the county of Ferrolterra, more than 33% of people in unemployment without social protection. We ask them to fulfill their promises: the construction of the floating dam, to strengthen the repair area, the wharf area, the only area of the Navantia group that is benefiting, particularly this year, 3 million euros. We also asked for a dry dam, which you also said you were in favour of it, just so that you could compete with Panama's new channel and develop large, slender ships. We asked for a comprehensive plan for Navantia Fene. There's no more excuses, there's no more veto, we can make ships, we can make oil platforms, we can diversify into offshore. We want to do what we know to do. We also want an industrial plan for the railway yards negotiated with the classroom unions, especially after the disaster in the judgement of the National Audience. We also want a research centre formed, particularly by Navantia and the university and the Ministry. We can't forget that we have nothing but industrial development in Navantia, but we also have the university of naval engineering in the city of Ferrol and the district of Ferrolterra. We want an immediate public credit line to ensure what we're reporting, so there's funding and we can develop new social and industrial economic initiatives.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u237	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u238	We want an audit independent of the bankrupt Plan Ferrol, this catastrophe we're talking about in front of the counsellor away from in the interpellation we commit. We want political responsibilities to be cleared by the catastrophe of the leadership of Navantia and Sepi. And also, justly, we want something that very well defended Mr. Tellado and his Ferrol homonyms, who went with a sign to the headquarters of Navantia in Madrid to manifest themselves. Well, we want Mr. Tellado and his comrades in the county of Ferrolterra now who accompanied him with a sign at least to this point, they give yes to the button...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u239	Finish. Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u240	...and meet the one they screamed at singing at Navantia headquarters. We want the resignation of a direction that is absolutely surpassed and doesn't know what to do with the naval sector of our land and ours, particularly our region. So, Mr. Tellado, you have the opportunity to say "yes" and be consistent.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u241	Thank you, Mrs. Díaz. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. Mrs. Adam.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u242	Thank you, President. Good afternoon again. Just like the day of the week we took the paper, we can find this kind of news. Recently: "The fall of the naval in Ferrol. They're treating us for 600 euros less. Due to the shortage of work and great unemployment, the assistants even pay the welders for 7 euros an hour." This is the new production model of what the People's Party boasts. Another headline: "The contribution of the industry to the Galician wealth comes down to ten years ago." Another headline, also a few days ago. This is the repeated situation we have seen reporting in this Parliament: a sharp fall, a free fall in the industrial sector in Galicia, not only what we could call a more classic industrial sector, where business figures, for example in the Welsh industry, have fallen by 3,4 % in 2014 compared to 2013, where – as has already been said by the proponent of this initiative – the industrial production index has also fallen by 4,9 % in the last year. The fact is that employment data is also a matter of concern in the industrial sector. We're talking about a loss of 20% of membership in this sector to Social Security in recent years. But if we take the less classic industry sector, say, how can those companies with innovation indicators, because we also have the People's Party talking about their investment in innovation, we find ourselves, according to official IGE data, companies with innovative activities, 43% less than 2008; with innovation intensity, 23% less than 2008; innovative companies, 39% less; number of companies with high-tech sectors, 4% less. But if we look at it in numbers of workers and workers, 18.8% less in companies with workers and workers in the high-tech sector. In other words, both in the industrial sector that we could call classic and in the high technology sector all indicators are in an alarm situation, and there are, there are, two laws passed by the People's Party Government, both the Galician Industrial Sector Act and the Innovation Act, and none of them shows any kind of attitude to improve this situation. We were discussing exactly one year ago an initiative put forward by the Galego Nationalist Block to modify the Igape in a Greek Institute of Credit and Investment that had two parts: on the one hand, the most classic part of funding, and on the other, the creation of a Galician industrial corporation, also to be able to enable not all companies that were in a situation of asset loss, even in a situation of loss of such companies, to be recovered from the public sector. We had a debate here, they told us that this was absolutely impossible. After a year, what we see is that all the indicators remain the same: lack of credit, lack of Igape's ability to improve the situation of the Greek companies and a clear lack of strategic planning for the Greek industries. And therefore we will support this initiative. We believe that the industrial institute is on the line of what, well, at the moment we defend and that we will soon be debating again, because it seems to us to be an important idea, which is a public industrial corporation. We believe that this is the moment of this incorporation of the public, so much so, above all, the economic and industry advisor right now. And that's why we add as an amendment to the creation of this Greek Institute of Credit and Investment. They're worth any name, because I really think the concept here is very clear. Outside and missing the Greek boxes, then it has already been debated in this plenary and I think it was very clear, after the question to the president in the previous plenary, that we now have a private bank that did business with the sale of what were the old boxes, is the Igape the instrument that is driving the Greek economy and the Greek industry? No, no, no, no. For, therefore, it is time for the Government to sit down and think: new instruments, new tools. We bet on that, which we believe is in line with the initiative that is being presented; that is to say, to think of how to keep what exists in the Welsh industry, reindustrialize into two axes: the most classic axis, where there was a good thing to do – and that should not be lost – and also in innovation, but without traps. Innovation, really with indicators and innovation betting, where it's talked about, as I said earlier in the initiative, about dependency innovation, and all the indicators that we bring about dependency and attention to older people, tell us there's no innovation. I think we have to take Galicia's industrial situation very seriously, that the alarms are very clear, and that what the Government of Beejo cannot do is just pull forward, continue as if nothing had happened, because, when we realized...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u243	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u244	...in ten years, we'll still have more girls and girls in emigration. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u245	Thank you, Mrs. Adam. Joint Parliamentary Group. Mrs. Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u246	The industrial production index has decreased in Galicia by 4.9 % in January, as a result of the fall experienced by all sectors, especially the decline in activity in the shipbuilding sector, energy production, textiles and metallurgy; that is, all sectors that have been and should continue to be the worst in the Galician industry are precisely the ones that fall. According to INE data, Galicia was also the community where industrial production was lowest in 2014, while it increased in the state as a whole. The industrial production index dropped by 4% in Galicia and increased by 1.4% at the state level, although industrial production increased last year in ten autonomous communities. Industrial prices also grew in eight autonomous communities, but one of them wasn't Galicia. Galicia was one of the five where industrial prices fell. Gross domestic product data reveal that the business of the Galician industry is low, at its lowest level since 2005. You have to refer to the year 2005 to find such a lower turnover. The gross value added was 9,130 million euros last year, 4,5 % less than in 2013 and 11,2 % below 2008. The weight of the industry on gross domestic product at market prices was more than ten years ago than one percentage point, where the sector generated 17.5% of the wealth in Greece, and today only 16.6%, that is, one less point. The march of the industrial sector that generates the better paid jobs and serves as a service tractor gives no evidence of improvement, as far as the People's Party insists that we're on recovery. For each industrial post – said the AGE spokesman – in the ferry sector of Ferrol would generate four in the service sector, because they are sectors that draw from job creation, since they are sectors with much better wages and more worthy than the service sector. We must boost the productive sectors. Navantia has to be devoted to value added jobs, such as offshore platforms, to compete at high level and not to be content with small fleets. The Union must use its powers in energy policy so that conflicts such as Alcoa, Celsa, Megasa, Ferroatlantic or SGL Carbon will not be repeated again, in search of a definitive solution that offers competitive prices to the industry. The high costs of electricity cause great uncertainty in the Welsh industry. More and more voices are calling for a stable energy framework for companies, and lately the Greek economists believe that the Government should guarantee a competitive price of energy to companies such as Alcoa or Megasa. The proposal to force trucks – another of the larger initiatives – to circulate through highways is clearly prejudiced by the Galician industry. It is clear that in the peripheral region transport will greatly enhance the product, making our less competitive industries, which are already quite so because of the taxes on hydrocarbons. The differences between the price of fuels in Galicia and the rest of the communities have not ceased to grow since June 2013 decided to raise the autonomic frame of hydrocarbons to their maximum permitted 4.8 cents. Meanwhile, at the same time that Galicia marked the maximum price for hydrocarbons, the measure had other solutions in other communities.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u247	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u248	For example, the Navarro Government eliminated the fuel rate, in Cantabria was lowered and then eliminated, this year in Castilla-Leon it also dropped to 1.6 cents, which leaves Galicia as the community with greater fiscal pressure. So – I'm done with time – I'm going to support this initiative, because it also had the industrial soil situation as it was used to satisfy mayors and not to give real solution to our country's industrial needs. Therefore, the Joint Group's support for this initiative and we hope that the People's Party, for the sake of our country, will really come up with a reindustrialization plan, because if you don't turn Galicia into a dependent country, which is the worst thing that can happen to us. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u249	Thank you very much. Socialist Group. Mr. Losada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u250	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have always considered that the polytologist and linguist Noam Chomsky was a little over-exaggerated when he said that through language he could recreate reality. But the truth is, as always, the People's Party puts me back on the limits of knowledge. Today we saw as a counselor, that of Fairy, as he was ontotologically unable to say the word "poority" and "inequality", which undoubtedly shows the very meaning of the word "ontology", right?, which is the way in which the entities that exist are related. And there are both: there is the Galician Union, there are the political decisions of the Galician Union, in this case related to the industrial sector, and, unfortunately, in this autonomous community and in the whole of Spain there is poverty and increasing inequality. The truth is, I didn't know about Mr. Martínez' structural incapacity. I already knew Mr. Conde, that he was undoubtedly aware in his speeches – and we saw him at the last interpellation, which gave rise to this motion – because again the inability to be aware that his political decisions have important economic and social consequences. Yes, there's another reality, which is the biased reality, that is taken care of very seriously. Counsellor Conde is going to sign an agreement or would sign an agreement to Ferrol with Aclunaga – which now seems to be, at last, a legal problem – and tomorrow he opens up in the Bridge Town Hall a company that has been running for two years. I think it's a sample, at last, of that ontological quality that there are realities that undoubtedly exist. There is the People's Party and elections, there is no industrial policy and poverty and inequality in this autonomous community. And in this lamentable dynamics of advertising and propaganda because undoubtedly the citizens are and the workers are, and is the calendar of mobilizations in Ferrol, where the class unions have already requested the resignation of the mayor and the resignation of Mr Feijóo, for the repeated industrial breaches in the departmental city. Again, a reality that the People's Party presents as virtual. But again, what's not virtual is the 30% unemployment rate, which has doubled since Mr Feijó ruled in this autonomous community. It is not virtual paralysing in practical terms, taking into account the production capacity of railway yards, of the naval sector, as much as the voices of the People's Party frame photographs of cutting plates two days before an election. And, of course, it is absolutely real the paralysis of the metalmechanical sector, which was a sector that was having a capacity – as it were in some way – to spread growth across the whole of Ferroterra, linked to renewable energies, which unfortunately also the policies of the People's Party because they have short-circuited. And I insist: what is real is politics, political decisions and the unemployment rate in the area of Ferrol, 30% unemployment. And in the case of the naval industry, because it's true that we also have the People's Party in a real media battle, saying that the Greek shipyards, both in Ferrol and Vigo, are virtually at the limit of their production capacity. I want to quote the latest data from the Ministry of Industry, the monthly January 2015 newsletter. In Galicia, the occupation of the naval sector is 17%. I would like the voices of the People's Party to be able to justify or explain these systematically triumphant speeches about the naval industry in Ferrol and Galicia. And against that 17% occupation in Galicia, with the same tax read, with the same European Commission, with the same Government of Spain – yes, already without Zapatero, without Tourin and without Almunia – because Asturias has 40% occupation of productive capacity and Euskadi 45%. And unfortunately, we find ourselves in this context, this absolutely advertising context, absolutely mediatic, in which we try to make the citizens of this autonomous community believe that everything starts to go well, when it is objective that everything is going as bad as it has been so far. And the problem is, when everything is as bad as it has so far, evil accumulates in economic and social terms and citizen survival situations get worse systematically. It's not the same as an unemployed person who's been unemployed for three months.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u251	Finish, please, Mr. Losada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u252	...that an unemployed person who has been unemployed for three years. It is not the same in terms of numbers, unfortunately, and above all in terms of social and economic conditions.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u253	Thank you very much, Mr. Losada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u254	I'd love it if the German Government were at least capable of saying "poverty" and "unequality." We don't ask him much anymore, because starting to say it means starting to see him.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u255	Mr. Losada, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u256	Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u257	The People's Group has the floor. Mr. Tellado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u258	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, everyone. Mr. Losada, you may like it more or less, but the fact is that this government has an industrial competitiveness path for Galicia that it has in 2020 creates 50,000 industrial jobs in that period.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u259	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u260	You may like it more, but in any case, the Government has a clear and definite roadmap. The truth is, it's hard for us to agree, because you come to talk about virtual realities and deny reality, systematically deny reality; the fleet was a lie, the BAP was a lie, everything was a lie, the sheet cutting was a virtual. [[Murmurs.]] Mr. Losada, this is the fleet that is being built in the Ferrol River This is the fleet that you can no longer deny, 500 people work daily in the construction of this fleet, the fleet that was a lie, that was small – said a member of your parliamentary group –. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u261	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u262	This is the fleet, it's not virtual reality, we don't recreate reality. We ask them to stop denying reality. There's a burden of work today. You couldn't say the same thing in the last five years of Mr. Zapatero's government, but now we can say, loud and clear, that there is a burden of work on the yards of the Ferrol River, as much as it bothers you. There are four contracts, 600 million euros billing, 3.7 million hours of workload. That they're insufficient? Of course, but there's more than when you were ruling, that they didn't do anything about the naval sector at all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u263	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u264	That's true, it's true, Mr. Gallego Lumba, they did something: try to sink it. But I have to tell you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u265	Mr. Gallego!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u266	...that they couldn't, they couldn't. This year Navantia Ferrol will simultaneous the construction of the fleet for Pemex, the ship of maritime action, the design of the LHD for the Turkish Navy and the 29 jackets for Iberdrola. Therefore, Mrs. Díaz, we can discuss whether the glass is half full or half empty, I say it is half full, but it is that when they ruled the previous ones you shared with the municipal government in Ferrol the glass was simply empty or simply there was no glass. The unemployment has, by the way, fallen by 5.7% in Ferrol in the last year.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u267	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u268	I'm sorry you're not happy. The truth is that this opposition is permanently installed in an interested pessimism, in an opportunistic pessimism that is installed in the worst, the better; that's the situation in which you are. [[Murmurs.]] I was asked, by the way, to congratulate the Socialist Party...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u269	Mrs. Quintas, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u270	...for the results in Andalusia. Well, if you think we should congratulate you on getting 35% of your votes, we congratulate you. In 2005 we achieved 45% of the Galician People's Party and you didn't let us rule. That's the difference between Democrats and those who lose their elections and believe we win them. [[Applause]] That's right, if you want me to congratulate you because today the Civil Guard has arrested 16 former leaders of the Andalusian Board for ERE fraud, we also congratulate you. [[Murmurs.]] If you want us to congratulate you on the thousands of defendants from the Andalusian Board, we also congratulate you, for a 6 billion-euro fraud from the Socialist Party in Andalusia. [[Applause]] [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u271	Mr. Gallego, you have a call to order.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u272	And I understand the role of Left Unity, which sincerely renounces seeing reality, don't I?, perhaps because, well, the fact is that at the time there were no contracts Left Unity was silent in Ferrol County, and perhaps that's why they now give up their own acronyms to contest the next municipal elections of May 24, they give up their acronyms, they're looking for others in which to mask themselves, and that citizens vote without knowing who they vote. We, who have contributed to filling the ship's cargo vessel in the Ferrol River, are going to introduce ourselves to the next municipalities with our acronyms, in the following as well as in the following. That's what makes us different from each other. [[Applause]] And I understand that you give up your words, because you really are responsible for the conversion of 2005, where you sent 1,400 workers and 2,000 in the auxiliary industry. That's the reality. Mrs. Díaz, tell us about an industrial plan. But what is the industrial plan of United Left, AGE, or what do you want to call yourself, for the district of Ferrolterra? I'm just going to say: close the gas plant...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u273	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u274	...in which 65 workers and 100 indirect jobs work. You also want to close the thermal center of the bridges, of Endesa, where you work 297 people, 500 indirect jobs. You want to paralyze the railway project, the external port of Ferrol, which depends 5,000 jobs between direct and indirect. You're also against the Gestan for Ferrol project, which actually meant industrial diversification. Now they're also against the Iberdrola contract, out of the 29 jackets.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u275	Finish, Mr. Tellado, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u276	They also want to paralyze the sanitation of the Ferrol creek. In short, Mrs. Díaz, you are against everything and for nothing, and that's why I understand you're looking for different symbols for the election appointment next May 24. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u277	Thank you very much, Mr. Tellado. Parliamentary group responsible for the motion. You have a word for Mrs. Díaz Pérez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u278	Mr. Tellado, I quite like contemporary art, I am a strange woman – as you know – but of course, as much as Mr. Puy and you repeat it, the glass of water is quite low in the district of Ferrolterra. It's embarrassing, it's embarrassing that you, who live there and walk the quiet streets of Ferrol, as I do, say what you just said here. The only reality in the Ferrolterra naval sector is that we lost 4,500 jobs, that we have the empty grades, that we have Navantia Fene without the burden of work, that we have no future and that we are starving, Mr Tellado. Tell me if you're gonna do the ridiculous thing again by singing with the banner at Navantia headquarters in Madrid. [[Murmurs.]] Tell me if you're going to vote in favour here, when we now request the resignation of an address that is incapable and that will literally charge the public naval sector, with the purchase of the mayor of Ferrol and with the approval of Senator Juan Juncal and the entire staff of the People's Party. That's the reality, Mr. Tellado, and that you have the shame...! You have principles, at least you who live there, who have children there, who have no future, which is what Mr. Losada said: that we have long-term stops, that we do not see the light, Mr. Tellado, we do not see the light. 4,500 jobs since you rule, and there's no future. And not only that, they have no excuses. There's no floating dam, they campaigned with the floating dam. There's no dry matter, there's no workload, no improvements to careers. There's nothing, and we have the world's best shipyard, which is Navantia Fene, which is Astano, and he's going to make jackets, jackets, Mr. Tellado. That's your industrial model.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u279	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u280	...it's not ours, Mr. Tellado, it's not ours. And look, Mr. Tellado, the only reality we have is unemployment, people who don't have to eat. Go on, Mr. Tellado, they'll end up doing something to him, frankly, and with all the pain, uh, through the streets of Ferrol. You have no shame, you have no shame-seeing, Mr. Tellado, none.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u281	Mrs. Díaz... Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u282	And look, I'd also like to tell us, Mr. Tellado, if you agree to comply with the industry law you made. Do you agree? We want them to comply with what's published, put a master plan on the table, tell us what we're going to do. And, Mrs. Adam, of course, of course we are going to accept your amendment, because, as it is obvious, without credit, there is no industrial activity; therefore, of course we are going to accept your amendment. But, Mr. Tellado, look, do you know what your policy is, that you defend with so much virulence? His policy is the one that comes out today in a newspaper, literally: "The German Government trusts..." [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u283	Quiet, please. Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u284	...and finish, Mr. President- "in that Navantia meets the deadlines and gets more work." "Trust," that's what the Greek Government does: believing in God and thinking that jobs rain from the air.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u285	Thank you very much, Mrs. Díaz, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u286	Mr Tellado, you have been portrayed, you have voted in favour and you are consistent with this initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u287	Thank you very much. Motions vote
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u288	We passed the motions. We voted on the motion by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr Pablo García, who said that he accepted the amendment of the Joint Group. We therefore vote on the motion with the amendment. We vote. Text vote on the G.P. Motion. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr Pablo García García, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in relation to the dairy sector The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u289	We voted on the motion by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mrs Gallego, to which no amendments have been tabled. We vote. G.P. Motion vote. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da María Carmen Gallego Calvar, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in relation to the employment situation of the staff of public care centres for persons with disabilities and the provision of comprehensive and quality care for users The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u290	Finally, we voted on the motion by the Parliamentary Group on Alternative Glaga de Left, at the initiative of Mrs Díaz Pérez, who said that he accepted the amendment to the Nationalist Block Galego. We vote. Text vote on the G.P. Motion. by Alternative Galaga de Left, at the initiative of Da Yolanda Díaz Pérez, on the elaboration by the Galician Council of a Galician industrial strategy and the actions to be collected The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected. Agenda amendment and modification
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u291	Before continuing with the development of the agenda, please comment on a number of questions concerning the agenda, which I have already been commenting on by the various spokesmen, but, as they ask me, so that everyone knows. PNL numbers 4.3 and 4.7 will be consolidated. For interpellation number 32881 of the Nationalist Block Galego, which was to be substanceized today at the last hour of the afternoon, it was asked to approve for surviving reasons; I believe that even the counselor herself spoke to the spokesperson of the BNG on this matter. And even the oral question will be welcomed in plenary issue 31892 of the People's Group, which would also answer the same advisor. And finally, the questions to the President of the Board, as I have already been commenting on, will be substanceed after the vote on the GNP. To say that there is an advance to the Government of Spain's decree of mourning, where we are asked to institutions to have a minute of silence tomorrow at noon. So, if things don't change and if there's no opinion added, I'll inform the House plenary, we'll start again tomorrow morning and at noon we could make that minute of silence from where they decide their lordships, in principle from the stairways of Parliament. So right now we'd continue to develop the agenda, with point 4 of non-law proposals. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. The people of Galicia, at the initiative of Da Paula Prado del Río and seven other Members, on the realization by the Italian Government of the management necessary to advance the implementation of the telematic presentation of judicial demands and communications
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u292	This proposal was amended by the Joint Group, the Socialist Group and the Nationalist Block of Wales. [[(G.P. Together, through its honourable Member and spokesman, Consuelo Martínez García, in the light of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the House, submits the following amendment to this non-law proposal, No. 32524 (09/PNP-002374).Replace the resolution, which will be drafted as follows:"1. Perform the necessary management to modify the Lexnet platform within 3 months so that it complies with the legal obligation of interoperability and security with the same ease for users of the various computer operating systems.2. After meeting the expected claim from the previous point, perform the necessary management to advance the implementation of the telematic submission of judicial claims, as well as other judicial communications for both professionals and other public administrations, avoiding unnecessary costs and displacements to citizens and professionals in their relations with the Administration of Justice."]] [[(G.P. the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mrs Beatriz Sestayo Doce, through the spokesman and the author of the provisions of Article 161.2 of the Rules of Procedure of the House, submit to this table the following amendment to this non-legislative proposal (Doc. # 32524).Additional amendment.In the resolution part of the initiative, new paragraphs should be added, which will have the following content:"The Parliament of Galicia urges the Government of Greece to:First paragraph bis)]] Develop an urgent plan for the implementation of the Judicial Office in Galicia. First paragraph (a) Proceeds to the immediate coverage of vacancies for different causes in the courts and courts of Galicia. First paragraph quater) If you address the Government of the State in order to maintain the civil records in the issue of the courts and tribunals."
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u293	To formulate this non-law proposition has the word Mr. Jacobo Moreira Ferro.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u294	Good afternoon. Thank you, Madam President. Lexnet is a secure online exchange platform that enables telematics presentation of letters and notifications and two-way communication of the judicial offices with the various operators. This implies an increase in the flexibility in processing and reliability of notifications, while it actually reports an important saving of time and costs, both of paper, printing, of shiftment of professionals from justice to judicial offices, etc. This system works in a similar way to email, but guaranteeing basic security assumptions, which are the ones that overcome fears when using this system. First, authentication, that is, the document's issuer is really who it says it is, because it requires the use of an electronic signature card. Privacy is another feature of this system; only the recipient can read the contents of the document. Integrity, which means the content cannot be changed during its transmission. Do not repudiate, which means that the legal operator or the document issuer cannot deny the sending of the document. And the date, which sets the order of arrival of the writings in a reliable way. The use of this tool is based on Royal Decree 84/2007 of 26 January on the implementation in the Administration of Justice of Lexnet's computer communications system for the submission of letters and documents, for the transfer of copies and for the conduct of process communication acts by telematic means. It's also based, as is logical, on the Civil Settlement Act, with regard to the presentation of writings, the conduct of acts of communication, times of communication and its legal effects. Galicia has implemented this secure electronic communications tool into all judicial and fiscal organs. The Lexnet system provides for three types of transfers in its use: firstly, notifications from judicial bodies to judicial operators; secondly, the route of affairs between judicial bodies and the Prosecutor's Office; and thirdly, the submission of letters from judicial operators to judicial bodies. Well, over the past four years, Lexnet in Galicia has had more than 11 million communications – most of it, reports of judicial resolutions by the judges – and has been involving for the present fifteen different collectives, besides prosecutors, such as the State Counsel, the Legal Counsel, the Fogasa, the Insurance Compensation Consortium, the State Tax Administration Agency and one and a half-hundredth of administrations. In addition, the platform is being used to route matters between the computer applications of the judges and the prosecutor's office – the judges use the Minerva program and the Prosecutor's office, the Fortuny program – mainly between the bodies, the guards and the prosecutor's office, in which Galicia – it has been said – was one of the pioneer territories and today nearly 200,000 itineraries have been made between the two computer programs. As for the presentation of writings, Galicia was a pioneer in enabling a telematic presentation of demands, but through the website created by the Galician Union, on a portal of the Galician Union in the cases of those affected by the preferred participations, which concentrated – as it is known – on the specific trials that were created in Vigo and in Coruña to process these procedures. This experience in preference was done immediately without the competition, without the use of the Lexnet platform and was limited to certain documents. Currently, since the end of last year, it has been promoting in the Judiciary parties of the Coruña and Pontevedra the possibility of telematic presentation of demands through the Lexnet platform, as well as the presentation of intermediate writings in the process phase, that is, those that are presented after presenting the demand in a judicial procedure to be incorporated into the procedure. Galicia thus becomes one of the first communities to activate this new Lexnet system service within the actions defined in the Path Plan for the Integration of ICT in Justice and which is developing – as is known – also the Galician Union. For this implementation it was necessary for the Government Secretariat of the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia to dictate the corresponding protocol of action for the telematic presentation of initiators and non-initiators, documents and telematic transfer of copies between prosecutors in the province of Coruña and Pontevedra. The protocol gives detailed instructions to the judges and the professionals of justice to ensure the system's functioning. Well, today it is going to consolidate the system, as evidenced by the more than 400 demands and 7,000 written submissions, and solving certain issues that are undeniable that need to be improved, as is logical in any pilot experience. And the experience gained in the trials of Coruña and Pontevedra, which were the first to incorporate this feature, will allow us to perfect the technical requirements – the ability of the documents reached, the installation of the so-called viewer to avoid printing on paper, among other requirements –. As a future step, what is now needed will be to consolidate this experience and extend it to the other judicial bodies of Galicia in a progressive manner. That's why this LNP is why. We want to urge Junta to carry out the necessary management so that it progresses in the implementation of the telematic presentation of judicial demands, as well as in the rest of the judicial communications, both for professionals and for other public administrations, thus avoiding important savings and avoiding unnecessary costs and displacements to citizens and professionals in their relations with the Administration of Justice. Amendments have been tabled by the Joint Group, the Group of the BNG and the Socialist Group. With respect to the Group of Mixto, you are told that this amendment introduces as an addendum to urge Joine to perform the necessary management to modify the Lexnet platform within three months so as to comply with the legal obligation of interoperability and security with the same ease for users of the different operating systems. We're not going to accept this amendment. Interoperability – I just commented on itineration – is already being guaranteed, and the Lexnet system must also be taken into account that it is a state platform and cannot unilaterally modify it at the Galician Union. Lexnet, in addition, is a safe and so interoperable channel that it integrates not only with the different systems and processing platforms of the judges – such as Minerva for Galicia, Ministry territory, Asturias, Navarra and La Rioja – but also with different systems like Minerva and the RedAbogacia platform, which is that of the lawyers and prosecutors. Therefore, interoperability is already being guaranteed. As for the amendment of the BNG, I don't know if they were confused on their own initiative in presenting the amendment, since little or no relationship has to do with the meaning of the GNP we just presented and I am defending right now. And as for the Socialist Group, I also don't know if they were confused on their own when presenting this amendment, because they demand the implementation of the judicial office, the coverage of vacancies and the maintenance of civil records in the field of courts and courts. This, frankly, has nothing to do with asking the Board to continue to bet on the implementation and extension of telematic communications in the field of justice. So we're going to reject those three amendments that have been tabled. I therefore call for the support of all parliamentary groups for this initiative to continue to ensure that we are pioneers in computerizing communication in the field of justice. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u295	Thank you very much. Parliamentary groups. Mrs. Martínez. Joint Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u296	Well, it's really a pity that we don't accept the amendment that we tabled, which shows that we are again facing a proposal that is not auto-bomb law, again propaganda, propaganda without commitments. We should among all of us look for a name for these non-law proposals that the People's Party presents. I don't know if it could be called a propaganda proposition by the Government, or if it could be called a proposition of applause by the Government or of encouragement to the Government, but of course not a non-law proposition. In any case, this proposal of spirit or propaganda has much more enthusiasm than knowledge of the subject. I'm fed up with the People's Party that any allusion to justice involves them in some summary, or I'm taking the colors out of drowning as judges drown without the means to fight against the corruption of the People's Party, someone has signalled to you the opportunity to praise the Union for something that has to do with justice. And there they were able to sing Lexnet's excellences, which say it's a safe information exchange platform among law enforcement officers. It's true that it's a secure information exchange platform, but less secure than the ad says. You should know that the implementation of Lexnet's Computer Justice Administration for the submission of writings and documents, the transfer and copies and the conduct of process communications by telematic means was regulated in Royal Decree 84/2007. And they should ask themselves and see if what they so much praise meets the one set out in the actual decree as to interoperability and security, something especially important when it comes to such sensitive information. They should also check, before they start praising Galician Union, if Lexnet complies with the so-called judicial interoperability and security scheme, if it complies with national interoperability and security systems and with Law 11/2007, on which the development of the judicial system of interoperability and security is based. It's true that all of this will sound Chinese to you, and so will I. That's why I couldn't check anything, but when you don't know what best you can do is ask, it's to consult who you know, talk to experts, and in Galicia we have great experts within the administration itself. To understand ourselves, what happens is that Lexnet incorporated Windows components that do not work on other platforms such as Mac or Linux. Later fixtures continue to present problems, so most users are forced to use Windows, with the result of lots of license revenues for Microsoft, and they manage a machine where only Microsoft can know what it does. It is the same thing that happens with the computer tools of this Parliament, which are not available outside the computer tools of the monopoly which has been fined multimillionairely by the European competition authorities. And the one about insecurity I don't tell you, the experts -- I suppose they call them Snowden or Assange -- and the massive espionage of U.S. agencies. To conclude, Lexnet is not the wonder that you suppose. It is not difficult to find online complaints from lawyers and other professionals after they have published that Lexnet is compatible with Windows, Mac, and Linux. When requesting help to use the Linux platform, the answer they received was that they removed Linux from the website. To finish by developing the electronic administration, I presented a replacement amendment, which I already see is not accepted, but that it really maintained the literality of the People's Party's resolution, only that it anticipated or anticipated measures that...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u297	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u298	...–Finished, President– they have ensured that precisely this amendment, this non-law proposal can be brought forward. Obviously, by rejecting this amendment, what you just made sure is that this remains, as always, in pure propaganda. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u299	Thank you very much. Group of the Galician Nationalist Block. Mrs. Paz Franco.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u300	Thank you, Madam President. The non-legislative proposal presented by the People's Parliamentary Group on the implementation or extension of the Lexnet system in the field of the Administration of Justice could be summarized in which it is the propaganda of the most barbarous. I, Mr. Moreira – you are an intermittent Member – have certainly heard from this Parliament since 2009 on many occasions the propaganda that has been made by your Government, Mr. Rueda, the Head of the Technology Modernization Agency (formerly the Secretary-General for Technological Modernization) in relation to the numerous and enormous investments of the Galician Union since 2009 in the technological modernization of the Administration. I've already lost the bill, because every year it's 4 million here, 6 over there, 15 over there... I swear to them frankly that I've lost my investment account, both on recording equipment in the rooms, on video conferences, in the implementation of Plan Senda, in the implementation of Lexnet, in the improvement of Minerva, Fortuny... well, we're a marvel. In any case, I believe that the People's Party, on many occasions, with these initiatives that are so modern, which have to do with the implementation of new technologies and the use of new technologies in the field of administration – in this case of the Administration of Justice – is to really cover up the real problems that users have from the perspective of the Administration of Justice. Because, in fact, you did here a description of the applications that the Lexnet program has, of how it makes life easier – we can say – to professionals of the Administration of Justice, but really – and I assure you that something like this about the internal functioning of the judges still reminds me – of course, from the perspective of improving the provision of service to citizens, does not contribute anything particularly substantial either. And yet there are other issues related to the Administration of Justice that are causing a lot of concern today in much of citizenship and that you intend to hide from these initiatives. For example, Mr. Moreiras, you know that the Government of the State has approved, through Royal Decree 8/2014, the privatization of civil records, that in practice it will not only assume that privatization, that from now on the commercial registrants will be profited, we could even say of obligations that we are subject to citizens in relation to the registration of several vital events, but that in most judicial parties it will assume the disappearance of a new service, since this real decree says specifically that the commercial property registrants will be entrusted to them, that they have commissioned commercial functions, that in Galicia are exactly five, one by each province capital plus Santiago; the rest of the land registrants have no competence in the territory, therefore, will not have competence in the Civil Register. A new service that disappears from the comarcas and disappears from the territory. Just like for almost a year now that Mr. Gallardón has been committed to changing the drafting of the draft legal law of the judiciary to ensure the permanence of the judicial parties with...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u301	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u302	...jurisdictional function, nothing else we know about that. Or, also in the field of computerization of judges, why, after more than 20 years, 20 years of transfer of the material resources of the Administration of Justice, do we not yet have a program that allows the use of the Greek language in the Administration of Justice, but rather, a program that hinders? And finally, you are the biggest obstacle to the proper functioning of justice in this country. And this week two alarming news came up: "Glew justice receives less prices than the average, but it's the fifth most collapsed." And another: "The Board again withdraws staff from support for Pokémon's instructor." On this subject you dance to yenka, today take it off...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u303	Finish it, Mrs. Paz, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u304	...tomorrow put it on. You really don't want the administration of justice to function properly, and that's why they bring these initiatives, very modern, but they're nothing more than smoke. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u305	Thank you very much. Socialist Parliamentary Group. You have the floor to Mrs. Sestayo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u306	Thank you, President. Speaking of justice, and as before it seemed that there were wrong data, I don't know if the People's Parliamentary Group is aware that Judge Ruz believes that the People's Party has been illegally financed for 18 years. It's probably a fact that he didn't know the previous spokesman, and he doesn't know that the history of the People's Party seems to be linked to illegal funding, to envelopes B, and, well, because the Bárcens, Laporta, gifts of sacrifice, Cospedal, Correa, Crespo, etc., of long summaries. This probably didn't know the previous spokesman when he spoke. Initiative that we continue with justice, right, Mr. Jacobo? With all due respect. What you are presenting is an initiative to urge the Government that supports most of the People's Party to continue doing something that is supposed to be doing, by the way, after being interrupted by the People's Party itself, an issue that was already being implemented by the Socialist Party. The initiative really has a question. In fact, Lexnet is a system that appears regulated not from 2009 – it was surely a mistake of its own, and that we all commit – it is through a real decree, 84/2007, which establishes the Lexnet system, a communication system, not between citizens – as you said – but a telematic communication system between professionals and judges. In fact, it favors justice without papers, that justice so criticized by Michavila and Acebes, and that the Government of José Luis Rodríguez Zapatero, with its various ministers of Justice, decided to push forward despite the criticisms of the People's Party. In fact, they gradually went using the operations through Lexnet, so they multiply. For example, from the Red Minister, operation 300,000, to 2 million operations when Mr. Francisco Caamaño – which they so much like to appoint – as Minister of Justice. And you're interrupted on one date, those operations that you're so proud of, have a date where they're paralyzed; they're paralyzed when Mariano Rajoy's government arrives and a minister called Gallardón appears, who has paralyzed the Lexnet system. Indeed, the cuts in telematics systems make different legal operators complain from back to back with papers and understand that this is not the way to speed up the media. That is why this Socialist Parliamentary Group – you believe that initiatives have nothing to do with the agility of justice, Mr. Jacobo Moreira – the General Council of the Judiciary – not this Member – says that one of the actors who best influences the operation of the justice system, in greater efficiency, is the judicial office system. Interestingly, in the judicial office, where they have competence, they follow – the truth is, they could make an effort, see that we denounce them – placed in the penultimate place – Galicia – of the report of the General Council of the Judiciary regarding the implementation of the judicial office, which says, among other things, that telematics must be accelerated for the agility of justice. That's why the Socialist Parliamentary Group is not pleased that you urge your Government to comply with what has already been done by the Socialist Government. It is very good that they encourage themselves – and I am delighted – but, in addition, it would be good to encourage them in what they have in addition to their competences, how to develop an urgent plan and the implementation of the judicial office. But besides – I suppose you'll have something to do with the agility of the judges as well – believe that, in addition, it's collected in different reports – and I think you might ask the Director General of Justice; you should be more communicated, I don't know if by Lexnet, but probably by a mere email – that they say that the vacancies that are taking place in justice, no doubt, as the common sense does, produce greater effectiveness of the operating system in justice. Well, you're not covering them, they know there's ongoing complaints. Well, that's the reason for the amendment. And thirdly, to address the Government of the State, because if there is anything that has been invested in, in addition, Mr. honourable Member, it is in the civil records, precisely in the digitization of civil records, in the computerization of civil records, that process of investment would cost millions at the cost of the public resources that you now want to give to the registrants, and that is why we ask you to address the Government of the State in order to keep the civil records in mind...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u307	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u308	...of the courts and courts. As my co-worker now told me, indeed, that is a turning door of Mariano Rajoy, for the whole family, of registrants, Mr. So accept the amendments of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, and if you are self-sustaining to...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u309	Thank you very much, Mrs. Sestayo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u310	...to continue the implementation of Lexnet made by the Government of José Luis Rodríguez Zapatero, because I feel!, but that was already working. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u311	Parliamentary Group of the Left Galician Alternative. Mrs. Díaz Pérez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u312	Mr. Moreira, we do not present any amendment – I suppose you will be aware – because we do not share the text that you formulate, and much less share the balance that can be made on the mismanagement of the People's Party in the field of modernizing the Administration of Justice and incorporating new technologies into it. I'm telling you this because, in short, it's going exactly the same as the naval sector. You know that I have had enough – this voicer – of presenting initiatives that had to do with this, which in a collateral way, only in a collateral way, you defend here today. And the truth is, the result knows it's none. To tell you, for example, that one of the exclusive motions for resolutions that was admitted by the People's Party in the debate of the nation's state was exactly what it had to do with the incorporation of the modernization of the Administration of Justice, the incorporation of the digital file, and all the new technologies. But the balance – I insist – is absolutely negative. And it's not like I'm saying it. It's what Plan Senda says. If you look at the Plan Senda balance, run globally since 2009, 66.99% of the budget. But if you look at the lines of action, I was amazed when I told Mrs. Sestayo that it had nothing to do with the implementation of the new judicial office with the new technologies and the electronic file. I was amazed, because you -- I'm sorry to say -- don't know what's going on. Or you don't know about Plan Senda itself, that I've made it to you to read it, because really the first point of Plan Senda, just to necessarily develop the electronic file and the implementation of the new judicial office, go hand in hand, Mr. Moreira. I'm telling you, read it, which is here, is the first point of action: implementation of the judicial office; second point: strategic plan for the modernization of justice. But more things. With regard to the node called technology 1 of Plan Senda, Mr. Moreira – we have also discussed it in committee – I have made a catastrophic balance: they have been doing nothing for six years, although they have left the budget unimplemented. I mean, they had public resources, but they were incapable or they didn't want to do it, that I support this thesis, because then we're going to talk about the telematic presentation, the pilot experiences of the demands. So, first, node 1, technological node and implementation of judicial file, zero scrapper, which Mr. Aznar would say, zero scrapper. And not because they can't, but because they don't want to. We have the experience of the demands of the preferences, which there were no problems, despite being absolutely long and with lots of documents, there is no problem; the question is of political will, and you are not interested in the functioning of the Administration of Justice, Mr Moreira; this is the problem. But look, in this Path Plan, and the modernization of justice, telematic incorporation, there are very interesting things. Itineration of data, of which you talk side by side in the explanatory statement. Look at the balance that the Landing Plan makes, that is, not to intercommunicate Minerva, Fortuny, Immelga, Lexnet, even if what happens in Lugo's trial, I don't know if you know it, Mr. Moreira; not only do you give permission to the judge of Pokémon, but I don't know if you know that from the Lugo trial to the Provincial Court of Lugo you have to throw back all the data, Mr. Moreira; please, that this is the reality of justice. I'm not talking about how they're in Viveiro, I'm not talking about how they're in Viveiro. Therefore, with this initiative, it seems that we are taken – with absolute respect – a little bit of pussy, and to professionals of justice, absolutely. Mr. Moreira – I insist – a lot of public resources, 32 million, more than 32 million euros, executed at 66%. It's not because they don't have the means, it's because they don't want to. But look, I'm going to tell you another tool that I'd like you to talk about: the portal of access to citizenship, e-justice. Well, it's true that you can, for example, download and print the free justice access form, Mr. Moreira, but it's not about that, it's about that one from the house can telematically formulate the management of free justice; this is unthinkable. And look, with respect to this initiative that incorporates us, it's very interesting what has been said here in the Civil Registry, Mr. Moreira. It's no less what's going on. We made an investment in Galicia of 128 million euros, despite the fact that the Senda Plan and all the development, which was digitized there, which cost 128 million euros, the Civil Registry online, so that, in fact, we went from having civil records in forty-five judicial parties and in all the municipalities practically of Galicia, to now have it only in five, and also paying for a modical price, and paying for a lot of acts that were not yet planned; therefore, privatizing a public service...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u313	Finish it, Mrs. Díaz, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u314	...fundamental. And I'm done. Mr. Moreira, you know, like me, because we've already discussed it, that the only problem for piloting telematic demands is a mega and security problem on the part of the prosecutor. They don't even...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u315	Finish, please. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u316	...in line with this initiative. So, Mr. Moreiras, I'm very sorry, we're going to vote against it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u317	Group author of the non-law proposal. Mr. Moreira. Give Mr. Moreira a voice, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u318	Thank you, Madam President, very late. Well, with regard to the statement by the representative of the Joint Group – better said, of 50% of the Joint Group –, let us know that we are advertising. A lot of propaganda shouldn't be, when you in your amendment include the text of our PNL; that is, you're including your own propaganda. In any case, we regret that we do not want to join the advance in the telematic deployment of judicial communications. As for the amendment of the BNG, I insist: I don't know if they were confused when presenting the initiative. I say what you and the other groups are raising are issues that don't have to do with this initiative. Any relationship to justice? Man, yes, of course. Related to justice in a very broad term, some relationship, indeed, has; as if to tell me about the judicial agents, something has to do with it. But we're talking right now about the implementation of telematic communications. You even talk about issues that have nothing to do with this, such as the Civil Registry, an amendment to the Civil Registry that was approved by a government of the Socialist Party, reform in which all political groups have agreed, parliamentary groups... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u319	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u320	...in Congress of Deputies. They seem to want to deny the biggest now, but that's the reality. And I would recommend that they read the 20th additional provision, which makes it clear that the provision of public service that constitutes the Civil Registry will continue to be free. I don't know if it's this disposition that you want to derogate. I don't want to deny it, because it is precisely the guarantee that the Civil Registry will continue to be free for all the Greeks. As for the intervention, Mrs. Díaz, I know the custom of your parliamentary group of sometimes not coming to class, don't you, but the whole thing is not to come to class and, when you come, don't do your homework. Because when I don't agree with an LNP, what I'm trying to do is make an amendment; you haven't made a amendment and keep them disagree, because do something. What's going on is that you have to come to class doing your homework, Mrs. Díaz, that's the reality. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Murmurs.]] In any case, as far as concepts are concerned...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u321	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u322	When the budgets are debated, Mrs. Díaz, you are always asking to withdraw shares from the Amtega. Of course, it's hard to ask for more telematic communication to be implanted...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u323	Quiet, Mrs. Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u324	...and at the same time, to ask that Amtega's funds remain, which is the body responsible for working with the Administration of Justice on this issue. And to the Socialist Party I want to say – I insist – that, if it was already working, Lexnet in Galicia was not being noticed, because Pontevedra had just been implanted recently, in the Coruña it is being implemented recently, and we are in favour of it being progressively implemented.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u325	It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u326	You don't seem to agree that there is a lighter administration with less paper and more communicative between citizens and legal operators. And the reality is, you see, the tax administration today works telematically, that of social security, too, even banks operate telematically and justice doesn't. I think we have to make an effort for modernization, but that's incompatible with asking, at the same time,... [[Mrs. Díaz Pérez speaks words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u327	Quiet, Mrs. Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u328	...the deduction of funds from the Amtega. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u329	Thank you very much, Mr. Moreira. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. People of Galicia, on the events to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in connection with the celebration of the Galleges Letter Day
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u330	This motion for a non-law amendment was tabled by the Joint Group, the Socialist Group and the Nationalist Block of Wales.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u331	You have the floor to make your proposal Mr. Baamonde Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u332	Thank you very much, Madam President. Greetings, ladies and gentlemen. Greetings, too, Counsellor for Culture and Education. Ladies and gentlemen, since 1963 53 dates have been on the Galleges Day. 53 years old, 53 editions, 53 authors. Known and poorly known authors. Men and women. Poetry, prose, theatre. Deliberately ignored or forgotten authors. 53 years ago today, the Galagas Day is set up as a date of celebration, promotion and dissemination of Galician culture and language. It is necessary to refer to the birth of the Gallege Letter Day celebration to make it clear where it was born and its significance. Although I'm talking about known things, it's known that Galagas Letter Day was born in the bosom of the Royal Galaga Academy in complex circumstances, at those moments when the pressure of the dictatorship made our identity dangerous to be assimilated and disappeared. Despite the overwhelming situation of the moment, even though circumstances made it difficult to organize intellectual and cultural sectors as well as politicians, the truth is that many individuals with determination and intense activity came to work, within the difficulties that imposed censorship and other connotations of the regime at that time, for the recovery of our identity. In this context, three academics from the Royal Galician Academy – Manuel Gómez Román, Jesus Ferro Couselo and Francisco Fernández del Riego – made a historic proposal on March 20, 1963. Taking advantage of the 100th anniversary of the publication of the Gallegos songs of Rosalía and taking into account, as explained in their explanatory statement, that the Rosalian book was the first masterpiece of contemporary Greek literature and also what, from its publication, had given prestige to the Greek language as an element of artistic creation, also constituting a decisive milestone in Galician cultural renaissance, made a historic proposal: that on May 17th of each year had been celebrated as Gallegas Day to collect the material latex of Galicia's intellectual activity. It was proposed on May 17 because, when the date of publication of the Cantars was unknown, that was the date that appeared in the dedication that Rosalía made herself to the poet Fernán Caballero as well. The Royal Academy, on April 28, approved this celebration. And, ladies and gentlemen, from that very moment on, perhaps because there was an idea of Rosaly, an image of Rosaly itself which symbolically grouped all of the Greeks and Greeks, the efemeride surpassed the limits of pure academicism to become an element of affirmation of our collective identity. From that moment on, Galagas Day helps to see and disseminate the conception of Greek culture as a wealth of collective construction made, elaborate, through a long process of historical decantation. Thanks to the work of these 53 authors and authors, from Rosalía de Castro in the first edition to Filgueira Valverde who is dedicated to this 2015 edition, our identity has advanced and continues to advance towards its affirmation. Baltasar Gracian said what those who honor their friends honor themselves. Well, honoring the memory of those who were integral figures of Galicia's culture and literature is a way of honoring ourselves, is also a way of working on the affirmation of Galicia's collective memory. So spreading and recognizing his work and his work is a collective tradition of strong social roots on our land, our country. But it is true that, in recent times, a noisy echo of rumors of discord seems to want to break the tradition of respect, the tradition of joy and the tradition of honor surrounding the celebration of the Galagas Letter Day, replacing the pride of the good and generous by the voices of timelessness and intolerance. To deal with this pretension, we bring the collation and debate to this initiative, which is a carefully drafted initiative not to harm the susceptibility of anyone, but it is an initiative of clear and firm commitment and of clear and firm determination. Concordance initiative, union initiative, but commitment initiative towards two objectives that I believe are irrevocable: on the one hand, reaffirming the spirit with which Gomez Román, Ferro Couselo or Fernández del Riego have alluded and given life to the Day of the Galagas Letters, who have impressed him and given him life precisely as a celebration of the affirmation of our collective identity by uniting people, culture and identity in the same celebration; and also as a duty of gratitude that we have with respect to those people, those 53 authors who throughout history have grown our history, our culture and our literature. It is worth renewing the joint support of this efemeride and strengthening the collaboration of all and all in defense of our culture and our language, especially to close the passage to the voices of intolerance, to close the passage to those who, instead of celebrating the Galleges Day as a party of collective affirmation, prefer to use the Galleges Letters as an element of discord. That is why we are debating this initiative, which I hope you will count on the collaboration and support of the parliamentary groups. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u333	Thank you very much, Mr. Baamonde. Intervention of parliamentary groups. The Joint Group has the floor to Mrs. Iglesias Sueiro.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u334	Thank you, President. It hides the People's Party that the sense of the celebration of Galleges' Day is not to honor a writer or writer – writers only three, we will speak of it. This celebration was the instrument that allowed the dictatorship to claim the normalization of our language. During the long night of stone – making poetic allusions, as the previous speaker did – it was necessary to give this appearance to which for all it was a day of demand for language and culture. In the 1980s, this date has reached a considerable height in the Greek society, becoming an extraordinary agent of galeguization and socialization of the values of our language. It was – better said, we were – the Greek teachers that we involved in this work of dissemination, dynamization and normalization of language and culture. And I want to render, as belonging to this body, an homage from this rostrum to this body of teachers who kept that spirit of keeping the language of Galicia alive. This proposal calls for support for those activities that are of relevance to the author – and I do well to speak in masculine because of 53, 50 men – designated by the Royal Galaga Academy. The selection of José Filgueira Valverde, debugger, franchisor mayor, counsellor with Don Manuel Fraga Iribarne and himself, also illustrious polygraph, about Don Ricardo Carballo Calero for the 2015 Galaga Letters produced a manifest delegitimity of the Royal Galaga Academy among broad sectors of the world of culture and education. Now if you make sense of your proposal, ladies and gentlemen, we can now understand why this proposal is not a law. The position of the Joint Group is to vote in favour of this non-law proposal, as long as our amendment is accepted. On the other hand, I want to point out – and I do not want to miss the opportunity – that after 1963 we actually took 53 people, of these 53 people only 3 are women. I think that to correct this inequality, it's important that the honoured figures over the next five years, at least be women. We have just published a note called Writers in Galicia in the 19th century, which is a volume presented by the Higher Council of Scientific Research and which brings together, gentlemen, a bibliographic repertoire of more than 150 writers, now speaking in women, of the 19th century. For example: Filomena Murual Data, nothing in Ourense – the Welsh Athens –, members of the Royal Academy in 1906 and author of a book of feminist poems, Follatos. Ramona de la Peña Salvador, who, being in Argentina in exile, wrote in Greek collaborations in the Argentine press that are collected in a tomb called German. Another, Clara Corral Aller, who was also the goldsmith and who was the second woman to publish a text in the English language, author of The Good of the Earth and Far is my joy. There are more: Hypolita Muiño Lago, nothing in Ferrol and also members of the Royal Academy – How does the Royal Galicia Academy ignore the women who passed by! It's just a scandal, author of Alus in the – not the – Candile and My Earth Accounts. These women have a lot of merit because they were able to give visibility to the female and the English language in literature at a time when they would have two, the female and the Greek language, found themselves in marginality and disbelief. Let us not, in the 21st century, continue with none and the invisibility of those who have been victims since the night of the times, these precursors for the struggle of equality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u335	Thank you, Mrs Iglesias. Parliamentary Group of the Galician Nationalist Block, Mrs Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u336	Good evening. I wanted to start by remembering, because I think it is important to contextualize this initiative, which, indeed, the Day of Letters has been commemorating in our country for more than half a century. If my calculations aren't bad, it's 52 years, but at last, we're not going to discuss a mathematical issue. In any case, it is true that this date is set in motion by an initiative of the Royal Galaga Academy at a stage – the franchise – where there was a severe repression against everything that meant being Greek, being Basque, being Catalan; that is, against the imposition of a language, the imposition of a culture that was made harshly against the Greek and about which many of the prejudices that were sown in Francoquism. Some of these prejudices towards our language have even been heard recently in this House, comparing the use of Greek with rural; that is, we continue to see how those prejudices, far from being eradicated, seem to be very rooted in our country. Well, despite the fact that this date has been official since 1991, I've looked a little, perhaps I haven't seen everything, so I don't know, but I do believe that, at least in the last 10 years, the People's Party has never presented any initiative in this Parliament linked to the need for the Union to have greater support for the celebration of the Day of Letters. So if we were innocent, we could think that PP is worried because Junta isn't supporting Letter Day. So the current Councillor of Culture, who I think the other day made a press round on this matter, because we could think that the PP seems insufficient the support it is providing to the Council of Galicia for this statement and that he therefore wants us to push something, which is what non-legislative proposals are for. But this is not a proposal for a law of impulse for the Galician Union, this is a non-law proposition in which the People's Party, in fact, acts as a sniper against the opposition and in which it comes here, also clearly, trying to appropriate a polemic that has been created between the whole cultural association and in the Royal Galaga Academy itself, in relation to the figure this year is honored by the Royal Galaga Academy. Because I suppose the People's Party itself is aware that many voices from the Royal Academy are upset with this choice, that there are many associations and entities in the cultural field that do not agree with this choice either. At the same time, I think it also makes it very weak in favor of the Academy, because in a context in which it was publicly said that this decision was interfered with by the People's Party, the fact that you come here trying to make this use of this controversy, the only thing it does is to reinforce the interference made in this choice in the Academy itself, or at least the appropriation that you make of that fact. Which I don't know if PP does a favor, since then to the Royal Academy, no. I also want to make it very clear that in the BNG we believe in freedom of expression and that we will continue to exercise it freely, even if you do not like it in this Parliament and even if you intend to criminalize the right to discrepancy. It doesn't seem to us that the choice made by the Royal Galaga Academy, we said publicly. We believe that the Frankish past of a character is not an anecdote in a democratic society that still has much to do with repairing the victims of franchiseism, because yet the state has not really recognized them or noticed them in that field.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u337	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u338	And there is in Greek culture, of course, yes, a very important baggage of people, of people who have worked for culture, for the dignity of this country, and who have done so without that weight that, indeed, we believe it is not appropriate right now. In any case, this is not an initiative of agreement, it is an initiative of discord. This is the initiative that demonstrates how the People's Party is very interested in sacralizing those figures that represent the least edifying for a culture from a political point of view and where, indeed, what you want is to honour the linguistic policy of the People's Party in recent years. They're very clear that they won't count on us for that. What we're saying in our amendment is, if you want to pay tribute to the Greek language, stop attacking it, stop tearing it down and...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u339	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u340	...they're really going to lay the foundations that make us that in a thousand years we don't have to celebrate Galagas Letter Day, because our lyrics are already normalized. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u341	Thank you very much, Mr. Pontón. Socialist Group, Mr. Caamaño.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u342	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, as you well know, in recent times there are many citizens, men and women from Spain – from other parts of Europe as well, but uniquely in Spain and also in Galicia – who consider that parliaments, that we work little, that we do not do anything, that we are wasting our time, that we do not represent them and, of course, I think it is an exaggerated public opinion. However, there are initiatives presented in Parliament that give reason to people who think so. I'm going to read one of those initiatives that says: "The Galician Parliament urges Together, in collaboration with local administrations, associations and various entities, to support and revitalize the celebration of the Galician Letters Day through the promotion of activities and actions that highlight the trajectory and relevance..." etc. Truly amazing. The Galician Parliament asks the Galician Council – without anyone having questioned it in Galician society – to do what it has to do. This is what we are going to do here today. There will be many citizens who mistakenly think that you are right who tries to reduce the number of Members of this House. But in the polls what will happen is that, with initiatives like this one, what needs to be reduced is the number of members of the parliamentary groups who present initiatives of this caste, especially when it is the parliamentary groups that support a government that has real powers, that has budget, that has recognized legal capacities to do things and not to remind us from this forum that in 1963 three members of the Academy had an idea and that, over time, it has been repeating itself, over the past – and I am not going to enter the debate – 50 years. Because that's what Galicia knows all about, whoever knows at least that's Gallegous Letter Day, knows anyone who wants to read Wikipedia. That is why you are not in Parliament, you are in Parliament – as you have just said – to seek impetus from a Government, a Government that has a very great challenge ahead of you in the face of a delicate situation of our language and culture. And in view of that, you forget, because you have no idea – absolutely no – what we have to celebrate the Day of the Galleges Letters. To celebrate, not that we are going to do, of course, but to ask the Board to cooperate. That's where we could be! If the Union does not cooperate, it will be failing to fulfil basic mandates given to it by citizens of this country on the day of democratic elections, of course. So we can't continue to bring campaign initiatives into culture. That's good! They're all bells! When will we have a serious plan, minimally crafted and founded, about the future of our culture and our language and can we discuss it in this plenary or in the corresponding parliamentary committees? Until when should we wait? That's the question. When are we going to have a majority parliamentary group in the field of culture that really bothers us with real culture and its situation, and not with telling us an interesting, interesting, 50 years ago story? Those are the questions that we should ask ourselves here today, in 2015, in view of the reality that Galicia is living. Far from it, we've just seen an absolutely empty initiative. "Collaborate," how, in what way?, with what budgets?, with what commitment? No, it's "colaborate." Look, it's understood that you're going to collaborate with the Royal Academy, that you're going to collaborate with the associations, with the villages, with the municipalities...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u343	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u344	...who will celebrate Galagas Day of Letters, understand! Or didn't he plan to collaborate and he has to be the People's Parliamentary Group who says, "Please collaborate"? I don't think that's the argument. It is therefore time for parliamentary hours to cover them with truly parliamentary reflections, with substantive reflections on the reality of our country's language and culture, which is already worrying enough to continue wasting time on initiatives of this kind. We have amended it with the only objective – the same as other groups – to give it some content. At least we take advantage of this long afternoon to do something about the language and culture of Galicia and, in addition to saying that we collaborate and support, we have some true content. They reflect on the amendments tabled by the other groups on this initiative. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u345	Thank you, Mr. Caamaño. Parliamentary Group of Alternative Left Gallega. Mr. Ron Fernández has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u346	Well, good afternoon to all and to all. We're facing an initiative that offers two face-to-faces that are clear and face-to-face. A liquid façade that falls in the obvious – it has been said – that does not solve anything because it is absolutely not a proposal not of law, nor of impulse and that does not contain facts that no longer exist, does not contain in itself any arguments of improvement in addition to the fact that it is intended to speak of Gallagian Letter Day. Because every year since the Royal Galaga Academy appoints the person who will be the fruit of the most important symbolic and cultural homage of the year from the point of view of amparo, relief and dissemination, all the cultural gears of the country are being launched: projects, editions, courses, congresses, seminars. All for a process of memorial review which, at times, does not distance itself from cultural vampireization and from excessive institutionalization. Therefore, in the face of this initiative emerges a façade which Mr. Baamonde – the spokesman – wished to hide under the clothes of rhetoric. It is the face of controversy, the face of discord, the face of wanting to take advantage of the dominant role of the majority group in order to generate a certain way of living the culture reality of Galicia, which will be considered more appropriate and better than the opponents, simple exponents of the non. But, for us, this machiavel intent does not withstand the argumentative confrontation of dialectics. It is essential to answer the question of why a certain character is chosen to be honored. It's not only about revitalizing the editorial panorama, recovering from forgetfulness and dismantling the vicissitudes of that character, but rather that character will be elevated to the symbol because it brings together the ethical values of exemplaryness, inherent to the decision that caused his choice. You can't bring here an exercise of asynchrony, a strategy of limitation between science and essay production, and ideology. We must not forget that ideology seeks to legitimize itself in science, nor do we ignore that every political system takes great care of the sphere producing knowledge, and that this production powerfully influences the ideological bases of the regime. You are, therefore, what you are doing, because behind a symbol there is a form of self-representation. The risk is that, behind this initiative, if you are saying that the ideological and scientific acts of the honoured person are worthy to represent the feeling of the Greek people for settling in ethical principles that make them model and example for the present generations. That's the danger. Let us not forget that, in the face of a given situation, there are, in principle, three behaviors: accession, rejection or indifference. The appearance of vital facts makes it possible to suspend the character of exemplaryness that is intended to be granted to the homage this year. Being mayor of a council within a system such as standing by the coupist military Francisco Franco – who has prevented the existence of political parties, who exercised the Government through dictatorship – means adherence to its principles. In front of it? We had the people who fought for the restoration of Republican legality and who did not recognize the validity of this franchise system, and they knew about repression, imprisonment, torture, death, exile... I'm the rejection. The danger for us is not to study the episthetic validity of the approaches of the homage that enabled us to consolidate the Greek literary system, there will have to study it. The danger is to make your person, who is made up of ideology and science, as an example. We could think of what happened, for example, with the Schwarze Hefte – Martin Heidegger's Black Cadernos – when they met and how they convulsed the landscape of philosophy. Heidegger will continue to be studied from a philosophical point of view, but one cannot learn from the approach of the Black Caders, when we know how he permeated the philosophy of Nazi national supremacy – let’s say –...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u347	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u348	...–huh? Yes, there's a minute left. Yes, yes, yes.– as influenced. So we don't serve the justification for the so-called autonomy between science and ideology that aims to bring us here, Agustín Baamonde, because the symbol called Gallega Letter Day is self-representation of the Greek people, and I can't feel self-represented by that person as an epileptic. So we understand the relationships of civil society, which is waiting for the name of the honored person. The fact that there are alternative acts against the institutional vision, better than better; cultural wealth, challenge and dynamism, which we lack. And if you want the dominant group to transform the current drift that suffers on Galagas Letter Day, you should think that there are possible other landmarks that actually make our language and culture the protagonist of homage. For this, of course, it is necessary to transform the political and ideological vision that you have of culture. And that's what's behind this initiative: to put in a certain ideological view...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u349	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u350	...of the Greek cultural literary fact. And that's why you won't count on our support.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u351	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u352	Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u353	Parliamentary group which is the author of the non-legislation proposal. Mr. Baamonde has the floor. Please give a voice to Mr. Baamonde's chair.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u354	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Caamaño said this was a belligerent initiative. Mr. Caamaño, you know the bells have different bells. They say of joy, which is what we wanted from each other with our initiative; I rejoice at a consensus initiative around an element of affirmation of our identity. But in the end, they have to double their grief, which you know is a grave touch and serious touch. They have to bend with regret because you, instead of joining the consensus around the English letters, prefer to follow the path of the murmurs of intolerance and discord. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, let me refer very quickly to the amendments tabled – because I am required to speak on them – and we cannot accept them. As far as the Joint Group is concerned, I am grateful, however, for Mrs Iglesias' intervention, but we cannot accept her amendment because it denies the competition, the indisputable universal authority of the Royal Galaga Academy in proposing the person to whom the Galician Letters are dedicated; there was dedication, and we understand that there must be roots. Do you imagine what it would be if we proposed to remove that competition from the Royal Academy? I imagine a little less than the Trojan War. Besides, Mrs Iglesias, you propose a sort of assembly regime; now there are fifty-three years and fifty-three authors. If you follow that system, within fifty-three years we'll be discussing who's being given the next Gallege Letter Day. With regard to the BNG, of course, we do not share the initiative of Mrs Pontón, who acted here as a skilled sophist, not in the search for truth, but in trying to convince the audience. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I take your argument: if you think there's little support for Galagas Letter Day, that's exactly why you bring the initiative and you support it. But no, Mrs. Pontón, you know perfectly well that you resort to sophistication; by means of half truth you end up putting on the table what interests you: the theme of turning the language into a confrontational element. We know they don't like consensus, we never think they were able to destroy consensus around the Galleges Day. And look, Mr. Caamaño, I see it bothers you with any initiative, especially those initiatives that force you to position yourself on something. Because I think you have no idea at all about what are identity themes and what are language themes. Let's reflect, one day they bring their own initiative on this subject that is not a reflection of what the Nationalist Block says. In Pontevedra the Socialist Party if you have positioned yourself on this subject, here you, modern and peaceful, intend to leave the tangent and the amendment they present is just a copy of what the Joint Group presents with regard to the Royal Academy...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u355	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u356	...as with the Block with regard to the language. And finished, Madam President. We can't accept your initiative, Mr. Caamaño, because it's a copy, and if we don't accept the originals, we can much less accept the copies that are presented to us in this respect.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u357	Thank you very much. Cumulative discussion of G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galician Socialists, the initiative of Mr. Val Alonso, and of the non-law proposition of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, the initiative of Mr. Rodas Chapela. Non-legislative proposal by the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the action to be taken by the Government of Greece in relation to the proposal sent by the Central Government to the research sector concerning the allocation of fishing opportunities for the yard by 2015 G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of D. Daniel Rodas Chapela, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in relation to the current model of distribution of catch quotas for pelagic species
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u358	The non-legislative proposal of the Socialist Group presented an amendment by the Joint Group, and the non-legislative proposal of the Galician Nationalist Block no amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u359	To formulate non-law proposals, first of all by the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr. Val Alonso.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u360	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good afternoon to all and to all. Well, today again from the Socialist Parliamentary Group we bring to this House an initiative to talk about one of the hundreds of problems you have or are going through the fishing sector in Galicia. A few days ago, from this very rostrum, we called on the Middle Rural and the Sea Councillor to speak in the same sense as we do today through this non-law proposal. Well, it's true that the outcome of that interrogation was rather hopeful for the professionals of the sea. What we want to talk about today is the distribution of fishing opportunities for pelagic species, which mainly affects the fleet of the fence. It's not a new problem, we'll all remember that last year the inoperation of the Government of Greece, the inoperation of the People's Party, was about to convert and make a management problem become or derive from a problem of public order. But if last year the situation was worrying to our professionals, this year is already practically unsustainable. And you'll be asked why. Well, for different reasons: First, because one of the objective species of this fleet, the fleet of the siege, is subject to a management plan; with all that it means in relation to fishing limitations, instead of periods of sealing and impossibility of access to the resource. Second, because in the distribution of the jurel – another of the target species of this fleet – we lost fishing opportunities for other years. And even though last year we haven't run out of quota and we've got tons left to fish, this year we've sanctioned a part of the fleet that makes the joint management of this species with 1,554,000 kilograms, which are supposed to have been overfished and will be deducted from the quota this year. And third, because in the distribution, in this fabulous distribution of the garden, in addition to having 15 per cent less than the previous year, that individual distribution that takes place this year by boat based on historical criteria is clearly discriminatory to more than 80 per cent of our fleet of siege. From the final list, which a few days ago was sent to the ministry, of distribution of fishing opportunities for the garden – which I have here – in that distribution of the ministry, I'm going to tell you some figure: there are seventy-three fence ships that have less than 15,000 kilograms of this kind of garden for the whole year, less than 15,000; thirty ships that have between 15,000 and 25,000 kilograms of this kind of yard for the whole year; and the rest, about thirty, with some things bigger, in some cases around 50,000 kilograms, which in any case does not cease to be a real misery. And this is so as long as we can see how in this same list there are Basque ships that have an average of 120,000 to 140,000 kilograms of yard, and there's even a case in which the 200,000 kilograms are exceeded. So you'll tell me, what does this mean? We, from the Socialist Parliamentary Group, have made it clear that with this model there are clearly a number of vessels benefiting and that they are not exactly the fleet of the Greek siege. And in the face of all this, what does the German Government do? For what has been customary in recent times: leaving the sector aside, not supporting it in its demands and even having boldness on many occasions – never again – to insult the sector itself by saying that there are four exalted ones who are leading the protests they are making. This is the management that the Government is doing. And we from the Socialist Parliamentary Group believe that sometimes it is best to put ourselves in the skin of a shipowner in the siege, of a vessel owner in the Greek siege, and to exercise such an exercise that they are so in mode of economic viability, to see if it's possible the profitability of a fishing company with ten or eleven crew members on board during this period, during this year 2015. And I'm going to give you an example of any one, of those that appear in this list, and I'm not going to do that of the few that have, but of a ship that are probably the most fortunate that we have: a ship that has 83,000 kilograms of interest this year and 60,000 of Jarda; this is one of the ships that stops best comes out in this assignment. Well, you'll tell me if it can be viable a boat with these quantities or these fishing possibilities for the whole year. And this is one of the best, because 80% of those boats on the list have a lot less fishing opportunities. I repeat: seventy-three of these ships have less than 15,000 kilograms of garden for the whole year. And I'm sure the representative of the People's Party will come here and tell us how often they've increased their fishing quotas in very high numbers since the People's Party in Galicia ruled. But the truth is that reality is quite different, and you can check through the lists that the ministry sends to its own ships and associated entities in the sector. We, from the Socialist Parliamentary Group, believe that we need to work on changing the criteria for the distribution of fishing opportunities for pelagic species, because it makes no sense that while some can fish, most of the Greek ships are doomed to poverty and ruin. And of course it's possible to have another distribution model, where other criteria that have nothing to do with those so-called "historical rights." Because, look, it is true that the State's Maritime Fisheries Act, through its Article 27, sets out the criteria for allocating fishing opportunities, and it is true that it speaks of historical criteria. But at no point is it established that the weight of historical rights has to be 70% above other issues, such as the number of crew members or criteria of a socio-economic nature. This is a political decision made since the ministry in Madrid and with the absolute and absolute convolence of the Government of Galicia. This is the reality: nowhere in this Law on Maritime Fisheries of the State, in article 27, is the weight that has to have historical rights; it is a political decision by the Government of the People's Party in Madrid and supported by the Government of Galicia in Galicia. So we believe that another model is possible and what is needed is only political will on the part of those who are in government and not being a puppet of what they tell us in Madrid. I think someone should explain one day how it may be possible for the Government of Greece to be defending this distribution model which condemns the total ruin of the Greek siege and which favors mainly the ships and other fleets of communities that have nothing to do with the Galician. We're not asking for impossible, we're talking about setting a political position. We're not talking about implementing resources or spending money, just that the Greek Government must set a political position that is favourable to our fleet, which defends what is beneficial to the country, which defends our productive economy, to be able to fix population in coastal villages, to be able to maintain fishing activity. We're not asking for an impossible one, Mr. Balsairo, simply to set a political position according to and adjusted to what you've been claiming for more than a year in the siege sector in Galicia. And what is needed is for the People's Party to join the men and women of the sea, who want nothing but to work on equal terms than the rest of the fleets of the state. That's why we put forward a proposal for minimums, a proposal for agreement, which is what the sector has been claiming for over a year now: asking the Government of Greece for its support to demand a linear breakdown by number of crew members. We do not understand how it could not be possible even today to have fixed that position, Mr. Balsairo. We don't understand how it had to be the sector itself, through its associations, what it had to resort to in front of the courts this management model. It had to be the very entities of the sector who resorted to the courts for the inoperation of the German Government. We do not understand how the German Government is unable to walk by the hand of the sector and claim and claim what we all consider fair and necessary for the viability of a sector that is wounded in death. And we do not understand as well as the People's Party, that in all its public interventions it is able to self-proclaim itself as the voice of the sector, and even it brings initiatives to this House to solemnize the obvious – we all remember those to assume as their own the demands of the sector – and it has not yet been able to request a change of criteria for distribution, and only prays to defend what the ministry says.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u361	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u362	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party – already finished – we are still in time to set a common position. A few days ago, the courts just took over the North-West Cantabrian Management Plan. Irremiably there's going to have to be a new one. I think it's time for all parliamentary groups in this House to be able to establish a common position, which has been demanding the sector for a long time, and we assume their demands so that we work in a linear division where all the fishermen in the Northwest Cantabrian can have the same possibilities of access to the resource. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u363	Thank you very much, Mr. Val. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. Mr. Rodas Chapel has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u364	Good afternoon. First of all, transfer our condolences to the families of the two drowned on Soesto Beach, in the municipality of Laxe. They go there this year and half twenty-two drownings, and the truth from the BNG can't resist that this is a normal matter, that these kinds of accidents continue to happen. Something you'll have to see about these tragic events with the scarce income of sea workers or the ridiculous quotas that we're debating here. Nor can I accept the change that the president has made and that makes it possible for the two non-law proposals to accumulate, because, although I can understand that for her everything is fish, they gave us the opportunity for one side to analyse in depth what is an important species as is that of the map, how it is divided into different segments, how it is carried out in NEAFC its distribution and how a small island, like the Faroe Islands, is going from 4.6 % to 12.6 – that is, last year they had the right to fish anything more and nothing less than 156,000 tons and how this year they were 133,000–, how this agreement does not count on the advice of the ICES, or how this agreement that last year was made counts with the criticism and rejection of fishing countries like Scotland, which curiously within the distribution corresponds to 42% of what is due to the European Union, that is, 210,000 tons. They compare this with the allocation made by the European Union, which corresponds to 7 % to the Spanish State, or compare the overfishing criteria used against the Spanish State and which have been used against a state like the Islands, when they have been failing all kinds of agreements for the last few years. Or we could also begin to analyze how the distribution within the Spanish state is carried out, how we were naïve with that Olympic fishing criterion, which always opened up by the cantabrian or bathtub communities, and when we got here it turns out that we had no more quota. Or since we were again discriminated against this division based on the supposed historical quotas and how at the end they perform an individual division that happens – something said the representative of the PSOE – of a division of 7,000, 6,000, 10,000 kilos a day to a division that we divide away and we get a measure of 19,500 kilos per vessel from Galicia, while a gipuscoan, for example, comes out of nothing more and nothing less than 107,000. But – as it was – our initiative does not speak of a concrete art, nor does it even speak of a specific species like the garden, but it speaks of a model of distribution that brings our fleet to its disposal. Because if it comes from a fundamental premise, which is that the People's Party assumes that the fleet will be left and that some of it must be dismantled. With this premise, the distribution migales established by Europe or by NEAFC will be accepted. A division, by the way, where socio-economic criteria are used is false. Mr Maneiro said this in the previous committee: this requirement for annual distribution has never been introduced by the European Commission. We totally agree. Neither maintenance of activity, nor employment, nor sustainability, is divided solely by the political weight of each state, and Galicia does not exist there. The interests of the Greeks, of our fleet, are not in Community fisheries policy, but are not in Mr Feijóo's political agenda either. Therefore, the BNG with this initiative aims to stage that in the day-to-day distribution within the Spanish State differs between the different segments of the fleet, between the species, between the autonomous communities themselves, and it is clear from time to time that our president does not have political weight in Madrid either. So when we have to split up, though dealing with the Gulf of Cadiz, we see how they got 98.86 percent of the quota of the mouth, and when it touches the yard, they touch us 25%. And let's see them in the different segments of the fleet. We see them on the trawl, as in fact, two fleets fishing in the same barn, in the yellow alley, we see how the Portuguese fleet has a quota, is arguing if a quota of 40-50 tons is imposed a week, while the Welsh fleet only has an 80-ton fleet a year. We can see him in the siege – as he said – because the model is changed: from a daily quota to a quota for the whole year. But we also see it in different species. We see it in the yard, where the problem is not that there is no fish, but that the model is how the fish is distributed, how the 519,000 tonnes of the European Union are distributed and how the Spanish State corresponds to 30,000, and how the fleet of the siege corresponds to 4,500 tons. This is dramatism. But we see it also in the jury or we see it also in the sardine or the mouth, which – as I said before – of 4,618 tons to us corresponds to the miserable amount of 53 tons, which in the first month of the year has already been exhausted and we have no right to be able to fish it, when in 2012 this amount consisted of 10,000 kilograms per boat. This individual model tries to transfer it to other arts other than the drag and siege, which also bring a despondent distribution. Let's see what the kind of garden is. The Basque Country is 5,240 tons, while Galicia is 2,650 tons. But if you see it on the boats, you see it's 104 Basque boats, while it's 229 yellow boats. So we see that the situation is highly discriminatory in other different arts as well as in drag and siege. But also in the other arts, for which 15% of the total quota is reserved, we see that it can be given and if it's giving the situation that when the fish arrives here we find that the arts of vetoes, mine, clumsies, claws... we see how they kill the fish and they have to throw it into the sea because it turns out we don't have quota anymore, although this fishing that takes place is completely insignificant. And we also see it in boats and in traditional activities like the way, which is given 200 tons, that if any shares between the number of boats and the number of days we see that gives the hallucinating amount of 6.28 kilograms per boat and day. Therefore, we are faced with an anarchic model which does not guarantee the viability of the activity and the maintenance of the jobs, and which leads our fleet to the disposal and imposition of the famous...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u365	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u366	...ITQ. So we don't have a future. And if we add to these other measures of control and inspection, where we are accused of making traps, of being criminals, there is nothing left of us but abandoning our activity, handing our ship over to the disposal, desertification of the coastal peoples, while our fishing rights are concentrating on large boats. If not, see the lists of the fleets of the trawler and the siege. In order to avoid this, it is therefore necessary to address the current model of distribution and to claim the increase in quota in those sufficient species such as garden, but also to change the criteria for distribution of the State, not according to the interests of the autonomous communities, nor historical catches, nor the size of the boat, but on the basis of socio-economic criteria, such as the number of crew members, which guarantee the economic activity of coastal communities and, above all, which guarantee...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u367	Finish, please, Mr. Rhodes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u368	...the job. We therefore demand a sustainable fishing managed for the sailors and not for the companies in command.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u369	Thank you very much. Intervention by non-proposing parliamentary groups. Joint Group, Mrs. Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u370	Thank you, President. In a recurring way, the problem of our fleet is growing in the debate of the House, but in my view this debate must go one step further and must pass a conjunctural approach to debate the structural problem of our fleet. We are debating the form of division, but I wonder: what should be shared? The taxing of TAC opened a commercial war that left the Welsh fleet and that of the entire Cantabria sold by the inoperation of the various governments of the state and the abandonment of the Unity of Galicia. As a result, the only thing we have to share now is misery. And poverty has a very bad breakdown, so it's necessary to attack the problem from the root. The advisor, with the inoperations, can only keep the sector faced and divided. Recognizing the problem in the amount of fishing, one of the most important components of fleet profitability should not be lost: the price of fishing. That's where the Council and the Central Government play their best role in the destruction of the fleet. When we talk about the price, we say it with all the consequences so that we don't get an idea of the situation and act accordingly in the search for solutions for the sector. The evolution of the price of the garden was the following and alarming: in 2011, the yard was sold between 90 cents and 1.20 euros per kilo; in 2012 it dropped at a price between 70 and 90 cents; in 2013 it continued to fall to 80 cents; in 2014 it was located between 70 and 80 cents; and in 2015 it is selling for 66 cents per kilo. But also in Sardinia, where the price that is being achieved at a time of very little discharge, around 300 kilograms, is between 57 cents and 66 cents of euro. Obviously, at these prices our fleet cannot survive. It's not just a matter of capture, it's also a matter of what price we're selling our fishing. This price evolution must move us to propose other solutions. Something happens that there is no greater participation of our fishermen in the final price of our fishing. As for, for example, Sardinian fishing, last year's aid almost no one could accommodate them, they came out late and caused great confusion in the sector due to the lack of agility, as well as discrimination in the elaboration of the lists of dependents who resorted to the exclusion. On the other hand, the caramel of the grant of the stop, in addition to scarce in the county and the delay, many of the boats would have to give up on the stop to fishing for other species and therefore exhaust the scarce TAC of the jury. It is necessary to take structural measures, with the effect of improving the position of the fleet of the Greek siege in search of its viability and profitability. We propose a two-level actuation: one more TAC level, in collaboration with Asturias, Cantabria and Euscadi, and another, with the development of a plan for the viability of the fleet of the Greek siege. From there our amendment of addition. And even if this amendment is accepted or not accepted, we're going to support this non-legislative proposal of the Socialist Party. Our amendment says: "To urge the Union to call upon the Central Government to renegotiate the fine imposed by the European Union, and to respond only to the interests of other countries of the Union and outside the Union, and not to a stock problem, requesting that the TAC be increased for the Spanish State, thus favouring the position of the Greek fishermen." And "to present, within one month, in this Parliament, for its debate in the Committee on Fisheries, a plan for the viability of the fleet of the Greek siege, in which the whole sector will be heard". We hope that this initiative will be supported by the People's Party, not by any kind of opposition ego, but because either we take the structural problem of our fleet seriously or we're condemning it to disappearance. The farm was condemned, the dairy sector condemned, fishing condemned, and today we were talking about industry disappearing in our country. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, they rule the country for Galicia, they don't rule for Madrid. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u371	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. Parliamentary Group of the Alternative Left Gallega, Mr Fajardo Recouso.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u372	The truth is to begin today with an intervention saying good night is a little counterproductive, because the reality is that we are facing one of the most terrible days and therefore the first thing I want to do is to move the condolences of our group to the family of the deceased sailors, and to agree with what was also said from this rostrum, that the very high number of accidents, of accidents in our sea cannot be the result of chance. Our group misses a serious investigation and a treatment of this situation that already seems like a plague. But it's not a casual plague, but in many cases it has to do with the difficulty our sailors have to arrive at the end of the month and to bring forward their companies, their ships. And that's why I think we have to take a situation seriously that already has very worrying figures in our country. The second question is that from Alternative Gaga we will support the two initiatives presented here today by the groups of the PSdeG and the BNG, because we agree on what is being discussed. And we've been saying there's a problem here about quotas. And the problem with the sector in Galicia is that the People's Party and those who serve the People's Party are trying to make an important part of our fleet disappear and that many of our fishermen and the people who live at sea leave that activity, to give rise to those activities that are industrially more beneficial and that bring more benefit to the private company. There is a clear and strong goal of changing our model of sea use to change it by another model, where intensive aquaculture is predominant. So they want to end fishing for wild species and also for our shellfish. And data on job destruction in the sector shows that this unfortunately goal is being achieved. And we believe that we must fight against that reality. And the Galician fishing sector has two problems: One has to do with the fishing opportunities that are granted from the European Union; those definitive targets of quotas for which from the state and from Galicia have not been proposed a struggle to improve those quotas. This is so much so that in the decrees and European Regulation 1382/2013 we are not aware that the People's Party is opposed to that regulation. And that regulation enshrines the principles of relative stability which condemn our fleet, but it also states that allocation criteria can be used that run counter to the interests of the Galician fleet. And in view of this regulation, the People's Party, which is part of the majority group of the European Parliament, did not do what it had to do, which is to defend the interests of the Galician fleet. And the second question is internal division; that internal division where the Welsh fleet always ends up paying the duck for – let's say – political benefits the People's Party with its negotiation with other communities, as is the case with the benefits that in the yard they get communities like Cantabria or the Basque Country. That is why there is a response from the new Commissioner for Fisheries in which he suggests that a part of Article 17 is not being complied with in respect of European Regulation 1380/2013, which sets out the criteria for distribution, and where the need for these criteria to contribute to the local economy is raised. In our country, in Galicia, the situation of our fleet is fundamental to the local economy, so that the coastal population doesn't disappear. And, therefore, the European Commissioner himself suggests in that response to our group that the internal criteria of the Spanish State go against these needs. They are absolutely insufficient distributions for the number of people who must live in Galicia in that sector. But they don't even have to pay attention to their own European fisheries policy, because nobody can tell us that quota allocation in many cases has to do with criteria for resource sustainability, for example, in the case of garden, but they are political decisions that demonstrate that Galicia is always at the forefront of the interests that the People's Party defends. And that is why we believe that it is time to demand in a forceful and unitary way that the criteria are per crew member, or, in any case, that criterion that benefits the social benefits per tonne downloaded, which are proposals that make the European Union itself. So we must set up an internal division and defend an internal division that is able to share the benefits that fishing can bring in the country. In view of this, we are taking a decision that goes against our interests and favours specific companies in the Basque Country and Cantabria. That's why I ask the People's Party to exercise empathy with the fleet, with those workers who come day by day with the impossibility of maintaining their businesses and hence the employment of their ships. And empathy means that you know clearly that with these fishing possibilities it is absolutely impossible to maintain exploitation and work decently for your workers. And I want to finish with a little question to the Government. During last week's commission – we talked about these issues in the committee – it was defended by those who spoke on the part of the People's Party who had an agreement with the workers, the shipowners of the siege for the distribution of these quotas, and who had to speak to the other side of those shipowners who were not part of that supposed commission or, in any case, that organization. But the days pass and the shipowners claim that if they know what the outcome of these negotiations is, or even if they've begun. It doesn't seem that way. And once again, the People's Party is leaving the sector orphaned and trying to make time to just...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u373	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u374	...to bring forward a proposal that is absolutely disastrous for our fleet. And, therefore, we will support both the PSOE and the BNG proposals and we will consider the need for the social benefits per tonne of those who have the criteria of internal distribution as a priority. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u375	Thank you very much, Mr. Fajardo. People's Parliamentary Group, Mr. Balseiro Orol has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u376	Thank you very much, Madam President. Today I want to start by saying it's a sad day, saying it's a sad day at the national level and it's a sad day for Galicia. And also from here we want to transfer our condolences to the families of the two sailors who died today on the shores of Laxe. And I have to say this, ladies and gentlemen, that the current government is listening to this sector. We know that there is space and that things can be improved. Besides, there's a saying in my land that says people talking is how best you understand. And that's why we would like to express the popular group's satisfaction at the fruitful outcome of the meeting that on the 16th held representatives of the Association of Shipowners of the Circle of Galicia with the Sea Councillor Rosa Quintana, and with the Secretary General for Fisheries of the Ministry, Andrés Hermida. We very much appreciate the willingness of all parties to negotiate to seek alternatives and to seek solutions, in particular to study with the sector, and within the framework of the Committee on the Galician Fisheries Council, improvements in the marketing system that make it possible for fisheries to be more profitable over time. And it would have to be at this point, ladies and gentlemen, where we were able to match all groups of this House. And we invite the opposition, too, you, to make constructive contributions, not to make demagogy. And I want to warn you of one thing: care to renegotiate the distribution by crewman. We could lose even in the garden, the Andalusian siege of the Gulf of Cadiz would enter, as the TAC is a joint. When you're talking about a community having more division, than a Basque country boat has more quota, the TAC is set, gentlemen; if fishing more will end the quota before. You don't confuse, you don't confuse commercial measures with quotas or fishing TACs. And where we already have right now, where we have a breakdown that gives us 25.9 percent of the quota against 21% that gives us the history. That's why I'm telling you to take care of renegotiating the distribution by crewman. We could lose the jury too, ladies and gentlemen, with that deal. Would we make something? In zone VIIIc, in area VIIIc we would earn something. We would have to divide the quota into zone IXa, where Galicia has 97.9 % of the quota, where we have most fished in that area in recent years and where we have risen to 70% of the quota this year. And they'd give us more quota in the jury, actually with the distribution that you say, in zone VIIIb, where much of our fleet can't reach for lack of port. You want the quota where our fleet can't reach. And we could even lose, ladies and gentlemen, in the case of the sardine division. For historians we have more than a crew member. Those are the accounts you're making. And we could win with that distribution something on the anchor, you do it!, without being able to fish it; we could win without being able to fish it in the Cantabria because of lack of the size of our ships. And also not able to fish in zone IXa if it doesn't appear as it hasn't appeared since 2009 to the year 2013. Those are the accounts you're making, but the reality is very different. I mean, to earn a little we lost a lot and we couldn't fish much of what they would give us in this case as to choose. And to us, Mr. Val and gentlemen of the opposition, we don't have to convince you. The People's Party always defends that fishing quotas are insufficient, and we continue to defend them. Of course, fishing quotas are insufficient! To assign fishing possibilities below the capacity of our fleet? Yes. And we were the first to bring initiatives to this Parliament. Now, uh, let's explain these reasons, let's not be mistaken. Because here were some gentlemen, who were not from the People's Party, who when they negotiated entry into the European Union accepted foreign conditions for our fleet, pilgrims for our fleet! Spain, which is one of the great European fishing powers, which accounts for 12.9 % of the total European fleet, has to comply with the 8% that you negotiated: the Socialist Party. Besides, with a fixed distribution key, fix it! A key to the distribution is that when we, the People's Parliamentary Group, try to ask for a change from here, we do not count on the support of the opposition. [[Murmurs.]] You, for example, have supported the continuation of the principle of relative stability by avoiding matching with the People's Party. And it must also be said here that if they are now the insufficient quotas, they are, and the People's Parliamentary Group has defended them whenever they are, what is the qualification that we would have to apply to those which you have negotiated? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Since the People's Party ruled in Madrid in three years, Spain's shares have increased by more than 22%. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Galicia has been winning since the People's Party and since Galicia negotiates in the Councils of the European Union. We were previously represented by the Autonomous Fisheries Community. And if these are insufficient amounts today... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u377	It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u378	...the negotiations...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u379	Mr. Fajardo, that's all right. Do the favor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u380	The truth is, Madam President, it doesn't waste much time because...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u381	Mr. Balsairo, continue, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u382	Thank you very much. I say, if there are insufficient quantities today that are negotiated, how were they or how you qualify them? And I'm done, Madam President, because if we talk about the fence, it happens the same way. When you ruled there was no discrimination, because most of the Greek fleet couldn't fish. And it's true that quotas today are insufficient, but now at least they have a chance to fish. Even even to the sector itself recognizes that quotas in the target species of the siege, which are the yard, the jury and the width...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u383	Finish it, Mr. Balsairo, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u384	...–end, Madam President– have a rise since 2009 of more than 52%. That quotas are insufficient? Yes. You, who negotiated them when they put us where we were put, will have to explain why we had 13% fishing opportunities and you negotiated 8%, and the consequences are now coming. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u385	Thank you very much, Mr. Balsairo. Author group of the proposal. Mr. Val Alonso has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u386	Thank you, President. Look, Mr. Balsairo, the truth is that it's unworthy, it's unworthy that the fence sector in Galicia has some political representatives like you, that all they do here is come and spread the strategy of fear and say that we are careful to change the criteria for sharing. The truth is, you don't stop wondering. Because, as much as they try to say otherwise, the situation in the sector is extremely worrying, Mr Balsairo. I don't know if you're the people who are preparing your speeches left you or gave you a look at that draft, that final allocation of the yard quotas for this year, and I want to let you take a look at it. And there you can see how, for example, a Greek boat, the Sea Watch, a boat of the last ones that were made in Galicia, more than 30 meters long, those that went to the Basque Country fishing garden, and which supposedly has historical rights, because it has in that distribution 59,000 kilograms. And just a boat of similar characteristics, like the Izaskun Berria, a Basque boat, because it has 164,000 kilograms. Just 105,000 kilos more than a galley ship of similar characteristics. You might come here and say that the quotas have increased by 52% or 72%, what you want, but the reality is that they reflect these roles that the ministry is in charge of, and that they set the fishing opportunities for our fleet, Mr. Balsairo. That's the reality. And I told you before you have to explain to me here how it's possible for a fishing company, which has ten or twelve workers, with 15,000 kilos per year of this species and another 15,000 or 20,000 grand of interest. You have to explain here. And I know perfectly well that you know it's not viable, but you have to come here to do another role, you have to come here to do another role and defend the management of the Government, who knows it's absolutely irresponsible. And come here to tell us that the Counsellor has met with the sector, it would be more than to meet with the sector! But what did they agree? Where is that meeting of the Galician Fisheries Council to agree on the measures, to set catch ceilings?, where is that meeting, Mr. Balsairo? Do you believe that the sector can indefinitely wait for the Counsellor to hold that meeting, and in the meantime, how are the families that depend on this fishing vessel to survive, Mr. Balsairo? I'm telling you again today that we had the possibility to send a parliamentary agreement from all the political forces in front of that new order that you have to do irremediably the ministry, because a few days ago the courts have just taken up that North West Cantabrian Management Plan. And that message that we could all send is what the sector has been claiming, which is to make a new distribution of quotas of pelagic species. And you're systematically refusing. And I know that you, who are an expert in fishing matter, know that it's impossible, impossible that a siege boat can survive with the quotas that you're granting.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u387	Thank you very much, Mr. Val.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u388	As for the amendment, we accept the amendment of the Joint Group as an addendum. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u389	Thank you very much, Mr. Val. Mr. Wheels.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u390	It's very nice to talk about listening. And, indeed, we see it here at this meeting that the President has decided to accumulate, and the sector that was invited tomorrow did not have the opportunity to listen to this debate. Just as he didn't have the chance to hear it from the president of the board, that every Saturday he concentrates at the president's house to see if he can put his ears to hear the dramatic situation that the sector is living in. And it's not that I say it, it's the reality that in 2012 we could fish 10,000 kilograms of mouthpiece every day, and this year 53 tons. He gave the trawler sector, which is constantly denouncing the totally discriminatory conditions of the fleet with Portuguese flag, but as a German shipowner, with regard to them. He gave the sector of the siege to the constant demonstrations; and although they joined the advisor and the general secretary of fishing, but the reality is that the following Saturday they followed in the same situation. But we see it also in the contingent arts, and already told him the other day, but it is now, with the new balance that there was, it turns out that it is still much worse, and we find ourselves as the difference of a ship corrunese to a biscuit ship goes from 1 to 8, for every kilo which can catch a ship from the Coruña it turns out that a biscuit can fish eight. And here's the data, which I'll give you so that you can check them later. But we also see it in other arts, as the racú can be, that we have nineteen boats and you can find that you can't fish certain species, either in the mesh, or in the way, a traditional art that perfectly embodies a fully sustainable art and where you see that it's absolutely unjustifiable that you can sustain yourself with 6.28 kilograms of fish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u391	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u392	This is the reality, the reality of a President who does not listen, of a President who does not have within his agenda the defence of the fisheries sector, and who, in fact, does not have a single management in front of the NEAFC, no single management in front of Brussels to modify that discriminatory 7%, no one measure in front of the State itself admitting a resignation...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-24-DSPG102.u393	Thank you very much, Mr. Rhodes, thank you very much. [[Mr. Rodas Chapel pronounces words that are not perceived.]] [[Applause]] We'll stop the session until tomorrow. Good night, thank you very much.
