ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u1	The session is open. The agenda is published in the Official Gazette of the Parliament of Galicia, so it is not read. There was no justification for this, and, ladies and gentlemen, before getting on the agenda, a preliminary point is included, which is the promise or oath of the new Member who is now joining this House. Provision of promise or oath of acceptance and fidelity to the Constitution and to the Statute of autonomy of Galicia by a new Member
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u2	In accordance with Article 7 of the Rules of Procedure, a request is made for the promise or oath to abide by the Constitution and the Statute of autonomy of the new Member, Mr Emilio Vázquez Blanco, to replace Mr Francisco Caamaño Domínguez. According to the procedure, the formula is to answer "yes, I swear" or "yes, I promise" to the question of this presidency. So, I beg you to answer the question I'm going to ask you. Does Don Emilio Vázquez Blanco swear or promise to abide by the Constitution and the Statute of Galicia?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u3	Yes, I promise.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u4	Well, given the promise, we reach the full condition of the Member, and we welcome this House. Thank you very much. Agenda Change
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u5	To communicate also to your lordships, before starting this session, two questions: firstly, a little change in the agenda, in the sense that the legislative text that we are going to make today secondly, the draft law on the creation of the Official College of Dietists-Nutritionists of Galicia, will be substantiation thirdly. We make a change and substance in the second place the Proposal for a Law Reform Act of the Board of Auditors. And also remember that today, in front of the main façade of the Galician Parliament, it is a blood grant campaign bus, in case Members and Members of this House consider their participation appropriate. Well, thank you very much. So we begin the development of the agenda, with point 1 of legislative texts. Debates and votes of the Ditame drawn up by Commission 1st, Institutional, General Administration, Justice and Home Affairs, of the Galician Public Employment Bill
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u6	They are maintained for the full amendment of the Joint Group, the Bloc, the Parliamentary Group of the Glaga Alternative of the Left and the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia. Please be quiet, please. The president of Commission 1st, Institutional, General Administration, Justice and Interior, Mr Agustín Baamonde Díaz, has the floor for the presentation of the commission's dictation.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u7	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good morning, gentlemen. The Galician Public Employment Act was entered into the Parliamentary Register on 19 December 2014. The Bureau of Parliament issued its publication in the Official Bulletin of the Parliament of Galicia and the opening of the deadline for the submission of amendments. Even so, listening to the Speaker's Board, he agreed to attend by the First Institutional, General Administration, Justice and Home Affairs Commission. The amendments to the whole were qualified on February 20, 2015 and the partial amendments were qualified on March 23, 2015 of the same year. The parliamentary groups of Alternative Glaga de Left, the Socialists of Galicia and the Nationalist Block Galego presented each amendment to the whole, which were rejected at the plenary session on 10 March 2015. With regard to the partial amendments, the People's Parliamentary Group made 37; the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, 181; the Parliamentary Group of Alternative Galicia of Left, 201; the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block of Wales, 209; and the Joint Parliamentary Group, 214. At its meeting on 26 March 2015, the Commission appointed the following rapporteurs: from the Popular Parliamentary Group, Ms Paula Prado del Río as the holder and Mr Gonzalo Trenor López as alternate; from the Parliamentary Group of Socialists of Galicia, Mr José Antonio Sánchez Bugallo as the holder and Mr Ricardo Vicente Docasar Docasar as alternate; from the Parliamentary Group of Alternative Galga de Left, Ms Yolanda Díaz Pérez as the holder and Mr José Javier Ron Fernández as alternate; from the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Ms María Teresea Paz Franco as the holder and Ms Ana Pontón Mondelo as alternate; and from the Mixed Parliamentary Group, Ms María Consuelo Martínez García as the holder and Ms Carmen Igles Sueiro as alternate. The sitting was held on 26 March and ended its report at the meeting on 13 April 2015, a report which was discussed and adopted in Commission 1st at the meeting on 17 April 2015. The articulated text of the ditame is written in 212 articles, structured in ten titles, completed with eleven additional provisions, fifteen transitionals, two derogations and five finals. So far the work of the 1st Commission, which I am presiding over, must be completed today by submitting its ruling to plenary consideration. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u8	Thank you very much. The turn of parliamentary groups to set their position on the dictatorship and if that's the case, defend the amendments maintained. The Joint Group has the floor to Mrs. Martínez García.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u9	Thank you, President. Well, the course of this bill reflects the deeply anti-democratic character of this government and its contempt for social organizations and local institutions and disinterests it for reaching consensus. That's what explains the refusal to forward the draft law to the ESC. The democratic quality of the processing of this law is also manifested in the exclusion in practically all the articulation of the participation of trade unions after they have not opened a negotiation period with them during the processing. And, as otherwise, the capacity for dialogue and negotiation of the People's Party is demonstrated in its inability to accept the amendments tabled by both trade unions and opposition groups. The project is named after the Public Employment Act of Galicia and, however, leaves out of its scope the research and health staff in many employment-related matters, such as career, supplementary wages or mobility, rejecting all the amendments referred to in the rules of reference for these occupational collectives. Even so, it highlights the constant lack of reference to the one established in the collective implementing agreements and to the V Single Staff Convention of the Galician Union of Labour. It is curious, at least, that the text of the bill escapes its commitment to the V Single Convention, such as, for example, the rejection of Amendment No. 12 of the Joint Group, where it refuses to modify the text of the bill which says: "collective agreements of general scope or affecting various councils", which is actually established, which is the V Single Staff Convention of the Board of Galicia. At this point, the aversion of the German Government by trade union organisations and the collective bargaining that rejected all amendments that added collective agreements as labour law enforcement, included the V Single Convention of Workers of the Union or guaranteed the bargaining capacity of trade unions. But it's more: the bill aims to ensure the equality of all employees, but it refuses that this equality is collected in the V Single Convention. In addition, the bill seeks to protect the administration by seeking to establish working conditions unilaterally in case of failure to reach agreement with the union representation. Thus, in Article 13(c), he recalls: "It corresponds to the Board of Trustees to determine the instructions to which the Administration must be given in the negotiation of working conditions, setting the same for cases where there is no agreement in the negotiation." We wonder where the bargaining capacity of trade union organizations is, if there is a prior legal imposition that guarantees the Administration that, if there is no agreement, it can unilaterally impose the working conditions it wants. But even more insists on the bill to reduce the negotiating and mobilising capacity of the unions and the staff of the Greek administration by ensuring the imposition of minimum services during strikes, without collecting prior negotiation with the union representation. The contradiction between this bill and the People's Party's triumphal speech on economic recovery and the prosperity that will be this year 2015 and the following. If we are actually at the beginning of recovery, why is this bill going to be aimed at ensuring budgetary stability and cuts in public services, for example facilitating the depreciation of jobs? As for the interim staff, the treatment given to them in the bill has a lot of resemblance to an ETT scholarship. In fact, it is not considered that the need for interim personnel to exceed the limit contained in the bill is considered a structural necessity. The retention of expenditure continues, so far from considering such staff as necessary for the provision of the service, the bill ensures that, regardless of service needs, the recruitment limit of the temporary staff will never be exceeded. It also continues to condition the provision of human resources to budgetary stability, including health care. Thus, the People's Party rejected Amendment 68 of the Joint Group, which called for the annual call of all vacant jobs. That is to say, it enshrines the precariousness of work, the eventuality, the fraud in the current procurement, which is intended to be established annually and unilaterally in Article 13, without any type of criterion or prior negotiation with the union representation, the number, characteristics and remuneration of any staff. This bill also loses a great opportunity to fight against fraud and corruption in public procurement, referring only to the legal responsibility of converting into indefinite contracts, but avoiding any other delicious acts carried out from political power. And he mentions the indefinite conversion of possible contracts, because he intends to legalize the amortization of indefinite jobs earned by firm judicial judgement and his hiring with private companies. That's the only way it's understood to condition the provision of jobs to the so-called court rulings. As for the executive staff, the bill advances in the free designation without control of these positions, by not collecting the nature of the positions that these staff will occupy or which they have assigned executive functions, nor by setting a time limit for these positions, nor their working and salary conditions will be subject to collective bargaining. She insists on the bet by the places she trusts to her finger. Thus, Article 34.3 eliminates the requirement to be employed publicly to have the status of executive staff in some public entities, such as agencies, autonomics, consortia and corporate public entities; i.e. more plug-in since the party. The OPE becomes the game of the park, it can be eaten squares – i.e., amortize itself – to count twenty elsewhere and in other conditions and appoint executive staff, where no negotiation with trade union power stations is considered either. Article 49 introduces itself as a requirement to participate in selective processes in the event that workers have not been dismissed through disciplinary records of any public administration or constitutional bodies that are statutory bodies of the autonomous communities. It's a restriction on the right to public employment that has no parallel in basic legislation. This provision could therefore be unconstitutional, for violating the right to work of Article 35 of the Constitution and the constitutional order of the distribution of powers between the State and the Autonomous Community. In relation to the selection systems, the bill favors more obscurantism and greater capacity to prevent, by excluding the union representation of specialized and permanent bodies that are created for the organization of selective processes. Thus, the People's Party rejected the amendments submitted to Article 50.2, which has such an absurd text as the following: "Calls for selective processes may establish with an abstract and general nature specific requirements for access to public employment that maintain objective and proportionate relation to the functions and tasks to be performed". Even so, the bill, to protect political power further, ensures that the appointment of members of selective processes is not done by drawing. It includes in article 55.3 for selective processes interviews and medical recognitions without any kind of justification about their need, which in my view achieves the opposite effect that is said to be pursued: lack of transparency, lack of objectivity and rationality and violation of intimacy. And in case this was little, it obliges technical discretion, thus trying to limit the actions of the courts of justice. If justice gives way to technical discretion, equality of opportunity and transparency in access to public employment will disappear. It cannot be tolerated that by law it is established as a regulated code of conduct characteristics which, moreover, are called in the law principles, such as exemplaryness, austerity or honesty, hardly quantifiable or measurable. The bill loses a great opportunity to regulate access to the administration for both officials and employees, facilitating prior access to vacancies for internal promotion before its public summons, as it does not facilitate the transfer of workers and public workers near their homes, not even in the case of staff who have suffered forced mobility. As for performance assessment systems, the criteria of transparency, objectivity, impartiality and non-discrimination are not met when assessing issues as subjective as the degree of interest, initiative and effort in which public employees perform their work. How do you measure the degree of interest? Does seconding a strike mean lowering the level of interest or implying lowering the effort? Nor in this case, for the sake of such a high degree of transparency, will the participation of staff representation for the approval of performance assessment systems. It also rejected the People's Party's amendments aimed at improving the quality of life of workers and public workers, including rights that do not affect budgets, such as Amendments Nos 70, 71 and 72 of the Joint Group, aimed at improving the proximity of public staff to their homes through the ordinary contest. Let's not say already that if they were affecting budgets, like coverage of 100 percent of the salary in IT cases. By the way, we must add that the bill enshrines the use of the specific competition, a system which is not transparent enough to make it easier to name. At the same time, it enshrines the figure of the free designation, making it possible to use it in any position determined, and, of course, without union participation in that determination. Is this the kind of transparency that PP is showing? It also points out that, despite the many demonstrations of the People's Party to promote policies for reconciling working and family life, it rejects all such amendments to the said conciliation in the permits, reductions and adaptations of the working day, both with regard to the extension of the duration of permits and with the permission to care for older persons and dependents. Similarly, the People's Party rejected all amendments to the opposition that improved permits for childbirth and lactation, something difficult to understand in a country with a very serious structural problem of birth and population aging. But it was also rejected the amendments that transferred to the law the rights to work health that should be guaranteed to pregnant or nursing women. I cannot finish without mentioning the attachment the People's Party has to the deferred payments, setting out in Article 143 different remunerations; deferred remunerations that are no more than privatization of public employees' pensions by hiring private pension and employment plans or collective insurance that include retirement coverage. Finally, one hour could be talked about all the negative aspects of this bill, continuing with the policy of cuts in public services, continuing with privatization and repression. A bill that attacks the most basic democratic rights of the bodies representing workers and public workers, refusing to guarantee collective bargaining and union participation in matters that are as own to them, such as the determination of the day-to-day, wages or the control of contracts. A bill that tries to legislate to ensure opacity in access to public employment, limiting union control and preventing access to courts by draw. So far, the draft law which seeks, through Article 153.10, to grant the Administration the power to breach agreements and agreements for economic reasons. Can public workers also breach the pact for economic reasons related to their poor wages? And, of course, this bill can't know anything about the employment of our language in the Administration, refusing all initiatives aimed at ensuring the knowledge of Greek in access to the Greek civil service, as well as its priority use in the care of citizenship. A bill that does not solve any of the current and future problems and needs of public services, conditionaling on its own stability and the very existence of public services to financial stability. A bill aimed at perpetuating the precarious employment and wage of employees and public employees, fraud in recruitment, eventuality, excess workload, deterioration of public services, appointments to finger and privatization, while not resolving the salary debt the Administration has to the public workers and workers and the recovery of lost labour rights. In addition, the bill favours the lack of transparency in selective processes and in the performance assessment process. The defence of employees and public employees, as well as of citizenship in general, by vetoing the participation of trade union organisations in merit assessment, skills and skills commissions. And also a bill that works for Spaniarding not only from the Welsh Administration, but also from Spanishization in the relations between citizens and their administration. So we're going to refuse this bill. Let's keep all the amendments. And we believe that, rather than a step forward, this bill is a reversal of the rights of citizens to access public services as well as the trade union and labor rights of workers and public workers. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u10	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. Mrs. Peace.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u11	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen who accompany us from the gallery of Parliament. From the point of view of the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, a law called public employment should regulate not only the relations of the Administration with its public employees but also their relationship with the provision of public services, and above all ensuring the quality in the provision of such public services and also in the labour relations between the Administration and its employees. First of all, we must state that, in relation to this first issue, the draft law which is now before the final debate does not preserve, from our point of view, the appropriate professionalization – which we all theoretically aspire to – of the public function in Galicia, since, from our point of view, this – let us say – institutional character, of an institutional position that must have public employees as an essential factor for the functioning of administrations, for the guarantee of impartiality in the functioning of administrations, for the guarantee of their independence of political power, is clearly questioned in various aspects of this bill that we have already denounced in the whole debate, against which the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Group of Wales formulated – and the other groups too – numerous amendments, but which have not been taken into consideration in the presentation process. And in that sense, let me make explicit mention of a number of issues which result in this bill designating a public service project, a conception of the public service more seeking an administration and public employees subject to political power that are independent in the performance and delivery of their functions, as well as in the search for greater professionalization of public employees with greater independence and guarantees of the provision of public services. In that sense, we believe that there are very worrying elements in this bill. We could start by saying that the introduction of that executive staff is one of the worrying elements, since, despite the fact that it is provided for in the Basic Statute of the Public Employee, its incorporation is not mandatory. And, of course, the way the Galician board does does not follow those criteria established by the OECD for greater professionalization of the public administration. On the contrary, from our point of view it constitutes a new gateway to political control in the Administration, even with the possibility – which has already been re-designed here – that establishes Article 33 and 34 that staff who do not have the condition of public employees may end up holding these jobs. On the other hand, the draft law does not regulate substantive aspects of what it has to do with this executive staff, such as the form of provision of these posts – which, from our point of view, should be regulated in this bill and not left to the dawn of the regulatory decision that each government wants to adopt on this matter – as well as the provision of posts, wages and other considerations on this matter. Another element of control of public employees introduced through this law is that of performance evaluation. Of course, the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group is not opposed to the fact that there are instruments to continuously validate and assess the quality of the benefits that are made from the Public Administration. But what we are strongly opposed to is that, in addition, it links itself with the new system of remuneration and that there are no guarantees of any kind, nor of union control, in order to retain some kind of arbitrariness or subjectivity to that assessment, and therefore the establishment of remunerations that have different public employees, since in the text there persist expressions of the type of "this evaluation, which will be carried out by the hierarchical superior, will be done according to the degree of interest, the initiative and effort of the public employee". We also believe that, despite what has been said in relation to free designations, they are not reduced, because in the articulate there are exceptions that will allow them to continue to be achieved practically in the same parameters that have been developed to this day in the current regulatory framework. There are other aspects, it is impossible to speak of the 209 amendments that this parliamentary group has tabled. So, if I may, I'm just going to make an impact on those aspects which, the trial of the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, make it impossible for our group to give our support to this legal reform. There is another block of amendments and questions relating to the restitution of the rights of public employees, which, of course, are not guaranteed in this law and which, in addition, have a clear correlation with the provision of public services. All of us in this Parliament remember as one of the first initiatives of the People's Party in relation to public employees was the adoption of Law 1/2012, through which they reduced in a substantial way not only the consolidated and legally recognized rights to public employees, but even in which the right to collective bargaining was challenged, since the application of certain provisions of the Single Collective Staff Convention of the Galician Union was suspended. Well, that law itself, in a provision, established that, after two years and depending on the economic situation, the provisions of that law would be reviewed. More than two years have passed – three, indeed – we have to endure every week, practically every day in this Parliament the President of the Galician Union and other members of the Government saying that we are in economic recovery, that the Greek economy improves more than none, and yet it does not even take advantage of the adoption of this law to repeal Law 1/2012 and all the provisions it contains. It is more, I think, in a cosmetic exercise by the People's Party, that there has been some amendment to the text sent to the Government in which it was intended in some way to question this situation by partially amending questions related to the remuneration rights of public employees – of which I will speak next – but that, from our point of view, it is nothing but a bona fide propaganda. Limitations on the replacement of personnel in the Public Service are not removed, not even in areas where the impact on public services has been brutal, such as all that has to do with the provision of social services, care for older persons and dependents and minors protected by the Administration. The replacement of public employees in the field of education is not opposed, where more than 3,000 professionals have been lost, nor in the field of public health, where we see the permanent reduction of staff, with the consequent deterioration of public services. The rights of public employees, for example, are not rescinded in such important matters as sick leave situations. That is one of the issues in which the People's Parliamentary Group tabled an amendment, but which, of course, simply comes to put – as I said earlier – a small patch, but which in no way repudiates the right which, prior to the entry into force of Law 1/2012, the public employees perceived during the situation of sick leave. As far as public employees' salaries are concerned, not only is there an entirely unfair and arbitrary pay system – as I have said before – which will make public employees pay the letter according to whether they behave properly, badly or regularly, but it is also established – let's say – as a driving thread of public employees' salaries the establishment of deferred pay. Of course, we scandalise ourselves – and with great reason – when the conservatory's employer intends to pay to the canteens' employees in pretty cans, but we don't scandalise ourselves when they intend to pay some of the salaries to public employees in the form of insurance that they hire with those banks that we then have to rescue with the public money that we save in turn from reducing their salaries and entitlements to public employees. Of course, all very fair and all very fair. It must also be said, in relation to the recovery of money that they have been stolen – if they have been stolen from public employees – as a result of the decision of the Government of the State to eliminate extraordinary payments, even retroactively, which is illegal, as all judicial judgments are saying, both in the field of litigation and in the field of labour jurisdiction, which are being ruled by the State as a whole, we believe that, of course, neither the bill that has been referred to this Parliament nor the amendment formulated and accepted by the People's Parliamentary Group, if the right of public employees has been restored. Of course, I can trust you that the restitution of part of that remuneration right, which even – as I have said on many occasions – is already recognized by judicial judgments, if you trust the year 2018, in addition to clearly violating a basic collective bargaining right as is the right to negotiate wages. It's a law that, in addition, rather than ordering what was poorly ordered within the civil service and the Greek administration, even more disorderly. One of the issues that gave rise to the most debate in the presentation was, without any doubt, the seventh, eighth and ninth additional provision, establishing the scales of public servants of the Galician Union and other additional and final provisions as well. In that regard, I have to say that, although it is true that on the part of the Galician Board of Delineants, there has been a correction in relation to the situation in which the proposed law was to be passed by the officials of the body of environmental optional agents and the body of delineators of the Galician Union, however, we believe that the solution that has finally been set up by a group B, to keep a group C1 declared to extinguish once, not that this law enters into force, but that the integration of these officials into Group B is developed regularly, however, is not resolved, from our point of view, in an equitable way, what will be the situation of officials who are integrated into the current bodies of forest agents, especially those who are in possession of the title to be able to be directly integrated into the group B that is created through this law. And something similar happens in relation to the design bodies. It must also be said, in relation to the situation of forest agents, that there is a commitment on the part of the Galician Union, on the part of the People's Party, to dismantle the system we had established in relation to the protection of our mountain, our environment, our rivers, our hunting and our fishing, taking them out, not only through this law, by derogating the law by which the environmental optional bodies were created, but also in the project to amend the State Mount Law, the consideration of authority agents to forest agents. Which, in addition, constitutes, from our point of view, clearly a loss of competence on the part of the Galician Union, for that, in practice, will imply that they assume those responsibilities to the Civil Guard or, of course, bodies that have nothing to do with the dependencies of the Galician Union. Another question related to staff, which is not only not resolved, but left in a normative limbo, is what it has to do with people who have the consideration of indefinite staff as a result of judicial judgments, of which the transitional provision of the vigorate law, at 16, established that within one year the Board would have to convene a process of operationalization. Together didn't do that, now that provision of legislation disappears, and we don't know what the limbo is left of those around a thousand people who are...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u12	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u13	...in that situation. And finally, another important issue for the Galician Nationalist Block is that we are before an old-fashioned law, not only ancients and Greeks, but also ancients, but also old-fashioned, as long as there is no responsibility for public employees to be able to guarantee the right of citizenship to have a Greek administration and to pay attention to them in their own language. So since the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, we can only say that we will vote against this law, which, rather than establishing an administration for the 21st century, establishes rules for a public administration of the feudal era. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u14	Thank you, Mrs. Paz. Parliamentary Group of the Left Galician Alternative. Mrs. Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u15	Good morning, Mr. President. The workers and workers of the public administration are out of this Chamber, rightly, Mr President, fighting the rule that today has a final point, a rule that will not only abound in the process of precariousness and even marking the finger of the public administration of our country, but a rule that will constitute a real loss of opportunity to professionalize and modernize the public administration of our country. A rule which, of course, was not able, despite the attempts of the People's Party, to achieve a single positive title – he tried, Counselor, but they were unable to do so. They've been trying to negotiate since 2013, that's what they've been trying to do, in an absolutely missing way -- we don't know very well why -- and then they've recovered, with a lot of impulse, just in the budgetary debate of this past exercise, this negotiation, but the truth is, there's no negotiation with the class unions, and there's certainly no agreement with the collectives that represent the workers and the public workers. But it is true that this rule does show the great lie about which the People's Party constructs its story. And why the great lie about what his story is about the People's Party? Well, for something as obvious as what we're urging you from the Alternative Left Gaga, Counselor. We have asked you for an amendment in the budgetary debate, but now we do it again through Amendment No 132, in which the Alternative Left Glaga interests the derogation of Law No 1/2012, dated February 29, for obvious reasons. If the report and the construction of the People's Party is that Galicia is emerging from the crisis, and besides, as Mr. Feijóo says, Galicia is the champion and is far better than the rest of the state communities, what they have to do, in coherence, is to repeal this rule. This rule, as you all know, was thought of because of the crisis situation, sending a diabolical message to the citizenship of this country, which was that the cause of the crisis are civil servants and civil servants and workers and public workers. The cause of the crisis was neither the workers nor the public workers, Counselor. The cause of the crisis is the shame that governs the bank, the ones you, by the way, keep putting on a red carpet for them to pass by. The workers and the public workers, no. We must also remember that workers and public workers, in very heavy numbers, are millionaires, Counselor. So attacking public workers and workers, as they do in this norm, in their wages, is of course to generate absolute social injustice. But the most serious thing is that this norm – as I have said – was designed for a period of two years – we took three years, and according to his speech and the story – I insist – of Alberto Núñez Feijóo, what they had to do, if we go well, of course, is overflow; a rule that not only attacks public workers and workers in wage conditions, but restricts absolutely all the rights they had achieved. Therefore, Counsellor, of course, the headline is that the People's Party's account of us leaving the crisis is false. They're lying to the people of this country. Galicia not only is going phenomenal, but you continue to attack the weakest in the social prison, in this case workers and public workers, to continue ruling for those above. So the discussion framework in which we could incorporate this rule would rightly be the acceptance of this amendment of AGE, because of course it would put us in a different frame. What you do in this standard is actually regulate the policy of cuts that you have built on the workers and public workers in our country. But the truth and truth is that it is a terrible norm in which it must be a public administration proper of the twenty-first century, and a public administration, in addition – as I said at the beginning – modern, and a public administration, as the classics of administrative law –Garcia de enterría, among others –, since it does not meet situations that have to do with appointments to the finger; that is to say, we remove from the norm the maximum possibilities of conduct that are not discretionary – as it is said in the norm – regarding the free designations, but, as you know, as you know, as this proposal is drafted, it will finally be arbitrary questions that decide who ascend to a managerial career, or even arbitrary issues that decide which will be the wages that are held by public workers and workers. So you lose that opportunity, and in spite of this healthy – reiterated – of the People's Party that you remove the posts of free designation, what they do in this rule is justly place a powerful body, a powerful staff, that they will do, according to the precepts we discuss today, because what the boss or the head of shift appointed by the People's Party tells you. This is the carousel that has this rule. But a norm, in addition, which is indeed deeply unfair in terms of articles 33 et seq., that AGE urges – as the People's Party already knows – to its suppression, and is about the need – that we do not share – the proposal made by the People's Party regarding the so-called professional career. There's an important demand for workers and public workers in an administration that must be modern, indeed, of promoting in a professional career. Because it is true that he enters the public career and there are neither curricular aspects nor – let's say – horizontal or vertical promotion of any kind, which even motivates public workers and workers to continue to improve public service. We don't forget that public workers and workers are that indispensable tool for providing quality public services. Motivation is a fundamental factor, Counselor. You certainly know better than I do. The problem is that the writing that you do in these governing bodies is exactly a leading staff at your fingertips, by the People's Party, who goes, in addition, to be a generator of deep injustices and who – I insist – will have wages that, of course, will not share the Left Galician Alternative. There are many aspects of the rule that are tremendous. That is to say, it is tremendous, for example, that we continue to violate – as we have said – the cuts in policies against public workers and workers, but it is tremendous, for example – there have been debates on this – that there is still suspension of Article 19 of the Fifth Collective Convention, which knows that, in addition to causing gross injustices, mainly in many sectors, but mainly in the workers and public workers of welfare centres, in which they have judgments condemning them for what they are doing, and because they are violating the fundamental rights of workers and workers, Mr Counsellor. But they don't care exactly. The crisis serves everything, serves to attack the workers and the public workers, but especially serves to cause a sort of fear in the workers and the public workers who even prevent the demand from them. But it is also true that we do not share the text of the norm in which it reaches – yes – this biased interventionism of the People's Party. What am I talking about? I speak clearly of Article 13, in the different paragraphs, in which you are clear, even, well, with absolute indiscretion, that you want to condition what the minimum services should be in case of strike. Counselor, well, we don't even agree. The right to strike is collected in the constitutional text and, of course, we will not allow or share, even if we do not have enough votes, of course, that the People's Party may, through this rule, say or impose minimum services in case of strike. We don't agree at all. We don't agree with that variable as well, don't we, self-designation personnel, and then potential staff? We amend it: in the event that there are possible staff, in any case, these staff will never exceed 0.1% of the salary of Chapter 1. Therefore, neither career nor modern administration nor neutral administration. This is the administration's determination, which has to be, indeed, neutral, and is not. Not only is it not, but, with the pay system that you incorporate, it will probably provoke an absolute situation I think that of persecution, of blacklists, in the Public Administration. Because, indeed, there are two headlines probably in this rule. One, which I always quote, Professor Antonio Baylos, a magnificent professional in these matters, implies the privatization of the public administration, directly, without doubt; and, secondly, it presupposes the precariousization of the public administration through its workers and workers. But there's a second headline, brusque, which is that the Welsh administration incorporates the Telephonic Model of Staff Relations into the Welsh Public Administration; a model of human resources, of labor relations, which is predator, Mr. Counsellor, is predator. It is a model that, in an absolutely challengeable way, incorporates this standard through the so-called "target wages", which, as you well know, remain in this completely indeterminate standard and will be at the forefront of what it has – I insist – each of the heads and heads of service to decide whether that pay for that worker or worker is correct or not. In fact, important questions we ask him for. For example, Article 22. Then, in that precept, as you know, it regulates which staff must be covered by authoritas, authority, and we present a amendment – and we continue to insist – that we indeed urge it to be regarded specifically as staff that should be subject to that authoritas all personnel associated with emergency services, Counsellor. It's vital. You happen to never accept this amendment, and not just that, but then we'll deal with the Law of Forest Agents, with another amendment of AGE, and actually they don't want to do it because they know that, if we incorporate this into this text, they'll actually assume that they can't privatize emergency services, things they're doing directly. So, let's go back to the qualification of these staff as copyrighted. By the way, even then we will discuss the Council of Auditors reform law and, of course, of course, it will be granted this copyright covering to a part of the staff, logically with reason, Counsellor. The point is, in fact, emergency-related personnel cannot be privatized. In fact, too, a lot of issues that have to do with collective bargaining, which is the frank, forgiving spirit of the People's Party, and it is, in fact, always in all the editorials that we have, that beats that kind of imposition of the People's Party. I mean, you don't believe in collective bargaining, and so, in many of the precepts we've amended, since they're proving it. Even the fruit of that question is the law we are debating today. Indeed, barbarity in regard to the lack of language-testing knowledge to approach the Public Service. This is not a normal country, Counselor, it is not normal, indeed, when we do not demand this kind of consideration. But also what it has to do with wage attacks on public workers and public workers, with the need to create a pay fund, which is always indeterminate. But also very relevant issues, as they are and that we ask for the removal of all chapters that have to do with sanctions in disciplinary matters, because they are authentically barbarity. And also – as you know – was the subject of a deep discussion of the 7th, 8th and 9th additional provision, in fact, as far as the bodies and scales are concerned and, above all, as far as you are concerned, because part of the staff – forest agents and others – in which, indeed, we have a disparate view from now on and we do not share the final drafting of the dictatorship as far as it reaches the category itself, group B, or for example in other sectors as the designers and so on. And also, of course, it's a pity they didn't accept Amendment 195, 196 and 199 Alternative Left Galician on the process of consolidation. In this country, at last, everything will remain as it was, we are not going to change virtually anything and we are going to leave this collective in absolute non-defense. And also a final part that we urge – and that is not less, and that goes in some way consolidating that model that you want – which is what happens to the derogation of Law 2/2000, of December 21, of the forest agents. And here's AGE's amendment that rightly demands is the maintenance of the first additional provision, which literally says, "In the exercise of functions, the optional environmental agents of the Galician Union will have the consideration of authority agents." Almost here you reiterate this character of authority to this body of agents that is greatly valued by the judges and judges of this country. I mean, the question that we would also have to ask is, if they do things very well and are being valued...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u16	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u17	...and I'm done now, Mr. President – by the judges and judges of this country, even let's say they highlight that work, because you won't allow them to do what they're really doing right meridianly. Therefore, precariousness, privatization and, without doubt, a model of exploitation in this case in the Public Service. It's never been a privilege to work in the public administration, despite that collective imagination that you incorporate into society, it's never been, but now it's going to be a disgrace.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u18	Thank you, Mrs. Díaz. Socialist Parliamentary Group. Mr. Sánchez Bugallo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u19	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good morning, gentlemen. The draft Public Employment Act of Galicia is now being approved by this Parliament. It is a law that is called to replace both Law 4/1988, of Galician civil service, and Legislative Decree 1/2008, of the recast text of the law mentioned above, after successive amendments and which will continue to apply until the entry into force of the new law. The text now being submitted to plenary approval aims to adapt and develop the Greek legislation on this subject, within the framework set out in Law 7/2007, of the Basic Statute of the Public Employee. Ladies and gentlemen, we must remember, as does the preamble to this bill that is being brought here today, that "the regime of state civil service" – literally – "stop being a model of reference and each of the lawmakers competent in this field" – i.e. all autonomy, except for Ceuta and Melilla – "is called to design their model of public employment organization and management." That's what the preamble to this project says, then we'll actually see what it brings. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about an extraordinarily complex and extraordinarily important subject, surely the most complex and perhaps more important law than will be dealt with in this legislation. For two reasons. First, because it affects, it determines the conditions of access and operation of the whole of the public employees of Galicia, except those who depend on the central government of the state – we are talking about approximately 121,000: 86,000 in Galicia's own board, 27,000 in municipalities and deputies, 7,600 in universities – but even more important than the previous one, which would already be of great transcendence – because it is the law that will determine how the public services of our autonomous community will be provided, except those of exclusive state competence. So we're talking about health, education, forest fires, we're talking about multiple subjects. The model established in this bill in some way will ensure for the next few years in Galicia an efficient, useful, appropriate administration to the needs and reality of Galicia or, on the contrary, to a dependent administration, unable to respond effectively to these needs. Logically, a theme as complex as this one also requires a complex law, and, in this sense, this law, with 211 articles, fifteen transitional provisions, four final provisions, is a complex law, and before it the set of parliamentary groups – 842 amendments were presented. I think it's also the most amended law in this legislation. Of the 842 amendments, it must be remembered that 37 were presented by the People's Parliamentary Group and 805 by the opposition, it must be said that with very different luck. Of the 37 of the People's Parliamentary Group, 36 are fully admitted and one is traded; of the 805 of the opposition, 7 are admitted, 12 are traded and the following 790 are effectively rejected. I will enter, ladies and gentlemen, into the elements that, the trial of our parliamentary group, are qualitative or especially qualitative in this bill, because logically it would be impossible to dissection entirely in just fifteen minutes. I will begin with Article 3, which defines the principles that will inform public administrations of their actions. And I will quote three: (a) service to citizenship and general interests; (e) objectivity, professionalism and impartiality in the service; and (h) transparency. These are three principles that derive and are literally transcribed from the Basic Statute of the Public Employee at the state level. Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, we believe that today's bill of approval not only does it not meet these objectives, but it does not even intend to be met, on the contrary. We'd start with transparency. By setting a simple example, you define in the disciplinary regime the lack of violation of professional secrecy. Nowhere is it concrete what is the professional secret. But, ladies and gentlemen, there is not a single line dedicated to protecting and protecting public officials who denounce irregularities or even corruption. Another example. A new category of staff is created and defined through Article 33, which is the management staff. On that category of executive staff, the first thing to say is that the regulation of its legal regime is delegated to the Council of the European Union; that is, it will not go through this Parliament, but will be directly within the competence of the Council of the European Union. It must also be said that it regulates and establishes that a register will be established in this area, which will be managed by the board of directors on which the civil service depends, a record on which the contracts and conditions of this staff will be deposited. Of course, nowhere is it stated that such a record should be, or should be, or may be, public access. I mean, it's not guaranteed in this bill that citizens can find out what the conditions are for this kind of executive staff. Second question: Article 92.2 and Article 92.1, free-of-designation squares. This is very clear. The free designation with public summons shall consist of a discretionary assessment by the competent body of the suitability of the candidates. I mean, no matter who has the best curriculum, no matter who has the most experience, no matter who believes the most knowledge, it's strictly digital designation for free designation. And in that sense it is absolutely clear. Unfortunately, in the rest of the cases it's not as clear. And we're going to talk about the contests. Look, I'm just reading a paragraph in Article 93, which is the ordinary competitions: "In ordinary competitions, only merits and capacities will be taken into account and, if so, the skills required from the corresponding summons will be taken into account." In specific contests, however, there is a multiplicity of absolutely uncontrollable themes, some of them, including a personal interview. Obviously, the message that is being moved to the whole of the office is, "Dear official/desirable would work, if you want to be a professional career, it has to be good, because if you're problematic, it's going to be very difficult to ascend." He would undoubtedly be guaranteed his status as an official, he would lack more! because that is supported by the State's basic legislation and the autonomous community itself would have no power to change it in this matter; but except that minimum which is endorsed and supported by the Spanish Constitution itself, from there on, for any other matter, because, indeed, if it is good, for it has possibilities, and if it is not good, according to who governs, its possibilities disappear. I'd like to talk about another subject, which is about possible staff. The conditions for the provision of services are settled in a very undetermined way for any staff. He said counseling and he talked about places of trust. Maybe there'd be more to believe than it means to trust. The curious thing is that no quantitative limit is set for this number of squares. I have to tell you, ladies and gentlemen, that many people are convinced in the street that those posts that are given in some way also digitally are used to place fellows, family members, friends who do not find placement elsewhere. And of course the text of the law not only guarantees that this is not so, but that it opens all the doubt and uncertainty that this may be the case. If the conditions for the provision of your service are met, why is it not acquitted, for example, the salary which can be devoted to this matter?, by the way, as is done in the local administration, by amending the Law on the basis of the local regime. In short, ladies and gentlemen, the executive's powers and maneuver margin are reinforced, but they are not guaranteed to meet the objectives. Let me give you another example: how professional secret is dealt with and where transparency is guaranteed. Transparency is not guaranteed anywhere. I even have to tell you that, at the trial of our group, it would probably not be wrong, especially in the light of what is going on in the media lately, some reference to companies that provide public services through public contracts or concessions, at least to try to ensure that this does not happen, which seems to be happening in certain localities, is transcending into dozens of cases and, it seems, is a fairly common practice of the People's Party. In conclusion, this is a missed opportunity. If the basic law, if the basic Statute gave us the possibility of setting a model, here no new model is set. Here you ratify and worsen the existing model, reinforce the power of the Executive, but disappear or diminish the guarantees for the entire citizen group. Of course, this does not guarantee efficient public administration, and above all we do not guarantee transparent public administration in any way. The model is always: officials who want to do professional careers know or will understand perfectly with this bill which is the way, where it passes the way to get up professionally, to get promoted, I no longer say to the posts of free appointment, not even to the executive posts, but even to the specific contests. It is true that, in this bill, some professional collectives can at least in some way get satisfaction from some of their demands and collective demands. But this is not the object of the law. The object of the law is what I just mentioned earlier. So from that point of view, ladies and gentlemen, by the Socialist Parliamentary Group we cannot and will not lend our support to this bill, especially because it does not guarantee compliance with the public service, because it does not guarantee transparency, because it preaches in Article 3 some things but the rest of the articles of law are oriented in a completely different direction. Ladies and gentlemen, we believe that this is the law of the People's Party's Government, it is a law of the People's Party, only for the People's Party, and only or basically to meet the needs and demands of that government and in no case to meet the demands of citizenship, not even the professional aspirations of the staff. For our part, nothing else in this first intervention and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u20	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez Bugallo. People's Parliamentary Group. Mrs. Prado del Río.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u21	Thank you very much, Mr. President. First of all, I want to greet the people who accompany us in the rostrum. Counselor, ladies and gentlemen. Well, today we've reached the final line of the presentation work on Galicia's Public Employment Bill, which entered this House four months ago. It was intense months of work, receiving many collectives, entities, organizations, even individuals, this work that culminated in the presentation of 37 amendments from the Popular Parliamentary Group, which collect the sensitivity and demand of the different entities and groups that we received here. We are faced with a legislative text establishing a common framework which will affect more than 120,000 public employees in Galicia: from the Union, from local administration, from universities, from instrumental bodies, from the previous administrations and even from the statutory bodies, except in the specific matters that are regulated in their own laws. Well, we are faced with a law that, although some are committed to denying it, is born of a long period of elaboration in the Galician Union and negotiation with trade unions. The first draft was delivered to trade union organizations on 12 April 2013, almost two years ago. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, from there, the Directorate-General for Public Service and the Business Council have been in constant contact at both official meetings and informal negotiations and meetings with the unions to try to reach agreements. In fact, more than one hundred and fifty claims by trade union organizations as other bodies were collected from these meetings. But the rule also collects the three most important union claims that have been made. First of all, the abolition of the so-called "high office" of the administration; Galicia thus becomes the first autonomous community that abolishes this supplement by law for former high office, approved by the two-party Government. Secondly, the establishment of a fund to recover the extra payment of December 2012 and the replacement of the specific complement of the extra payments. And thirdly, the general coverage of service heads by specific tender. Ladies and gentlemen, you feel sorry for those who care about you, we are before the law of economic recovery, the law that incorporates new rights for public staff, rights that bring with you the consequent increase in expenditure for the administration. It is only possible to incorporate rights into a context of economic growth, and the People's Party has maintained as long as the effort required of public personnel at the worst of the economic crisis would end as soon as economic recovery occurs. Well, ladies and gentlemen, in these four months in the House and after the meetings held with different groups and organizations, the proposals and demands of these people and these groups reflect them in 37 amendments from the People's Parliamentary Group, which I will include in two important groups with economic impact, as I said earlier: firstly, in relation to the return of extra payment; and, secondly, in the area of equality. Regarding the return of the extra payment, to say that the Budget Act for 2015 envisaged the return of half of the extra pay paid, that is, 20%, at a cost of 35 million to the Autonomic Administration. With the introduction of the amendment of the Popular Parliamentary Group, we raised nearly 25% of the refund of the extra payment by 2015, at a cost for the administration of 50 million euros. And in addition, it accumulates in 2016, where it recovers 50%, with a budget cost of 100 million euros, and for 2017 the remaining 25% and half of the specific supplement, with a cost of 150 million euros, reaching at the end of 2017 100% of the specific supplement included in the extra payment, with a cost of 200 million euros. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, no propaganda, no cosmetics and a lot of economic and budgetary commitment. I insist, ladies and gentlemen: this year, with the return of the extra payment, the Board will assume a 50 million euro expense. Propaganda, it doesn't seem to be. Ladies and gentlemen, the recovery of the purchasing power of the pay levels of public employees, with this rule that we will adopt today, is a reality, a legislative incorporation which means an annual cost of EUR 200 million for the Autonomic Administration. The same effort that public workers have made in their day to collaborate on the outcome of the crisis and now that economic recovery is a reality we return to the public staff the effort they have made. In the field of equality, we have introduced measures to promote the rights of conciliation. In the internal promotion processes, a specific score is provided in the assessment of merits for those who are using or using a maternity license, a paternity permit, a daily reduction or a surplus for the care of family members over the past five years. We have incorporated into the text the provision of rest rooms and lactation for pregnant public employees and those who nurse their son or daughter, including artificial breastfeeding by parents or mothers, understanding this provision for all public administrations included in the scope of this law. We are the first autonomous community to extend the duration of permits by birth and adoption or reception to eighteen weeks. Staff members shall be entitled to the paid permits necessary to carry out the assisted fertilization treatment. Through the amendment we incorporate that they are paid and we suppress the exclusivity of their realization in centers of the public health system or concerted. This was a demand from all trade union organizations. We also improve the breast-feeding permit, greater flexibility, and also, if it's a multiple birth, the length of the breast-feeding permit will increase in proportion to the number of children and children. We improved the right of female managers to choose the holiday period, including the priority for numerous families, increased the duration of parental leave or foster care – before it was only for birth and adoption-. Well, ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to thank you for your willingness and willingness to negotiate with the rest of the rapporteurs of the parliamentary groups. If it is true that they have tabled many amendments, it must also be said that these were the same in many cases, they were repeated, because they collected amendments from the unions and demands from the unions that were discarded in their day for different reasons. And if we don't get any more agreements, it's because either from the Popular Group we've already picked up the same issues in our amendments or because others didn't fit in the current regulations, apart from those that we thought were more suitable for what was in the project itself. For example, it was not in agreement with the basic Statute of the Public Employee, which he intended to let all indefinite and undecided personnel be extinguished, which even violates the constitutional principles of access to public service. Or amendment 33 of the Socialist Party, which contradicted the EB. Or, Mrs Martínez, we can also speak of its amendments 46 or 189, which seek access to public employment which is imperatively established by the basic state legislation in Article 57 of the EB, or even Amendment 54, which seeks the participation of staff in the selection bodies, which is contrary to the requirement imposed by the basic legislation that membership of the selection bodies will always be in an individual capacity – and in this case I recommend that you read Article 60.3 of the EB–. Also in its Amendment 12, which you cited here, Mrs Martínez, there may be and there are more collective agreements, and the negotiating capacity of Article 12 is not the subject matter of this law nor is it the competence of the autonomous community. Also in the numbering of the principles of action of public officials collected in Article 73, the Galego Nationalist Block, with its amendments 63 and 64, suppressing principles of action which are indisposable by the autonomic legislator, since it is found in Article 52 of the EB exemplaryness, austerity and honesty. It is surprising that they ask to remove these principles from the code of conduct and within the framework of the duties of public employees. It is much more surprising that the Socialist Party is calling for this abolition in its amendment 66, in article 73, since EB was adopted on 12 April 2007, under the mandate of Mr. Rodríguez Zapatero. Well, opposition groups have tabled many amendments, but the proposal – I insist – is the same in most cases. And also, well, I'm going to encompass in three groups the type of amendments: amendments that contradict EB, which in no case can be admitted, because they would come into contradiction with a higher-ranking standard; we have 32 of PSOE, 37 of the Mixed Group, 41 of the BNG and 45 of the Left Galician Alternative. Then another group of amendments on matters that must be regulated, and therefore must be out of the law; we have 14 of the PSOE, 18 of the Mixed, 18 of the Block and 12 of the AGE. And thirdly, amendments that coincide with the text of the amendments of the People's Party and others that are accepted or traded. And what surprises us already is what Mr Bugallo has just done here, to come and talk about issues they haven't even tabled amendments, nor did they come up with in the panel discussions, as is the case with what he just said here to protect officials and public employees who want to report some kind of illegality. Or also questions such as the entrance to the Administration through judgment when, Mr. Bugallo – I don't know – when you were mayor of Santiago, you know the high percentage of staff who entered that administration through judgment and did not see opposition. Questions such as those raised by Mrs Martínez that we refuse to support amendments to the breast-feeding permit. Of course, but your amendments are much more restrictive than the text of the rule itself, Mrs. Martínez. See, the amendments to article 112, which have amended all groups – the PSOE, the Mixto, the Block and the AGE – call for the right to allow for breastfeeding to be exercised independently by either of the persons involved or to be apportioned among them. This question is already included in the article that is intended to be amended, since in paragraph 2 it states that when both parents work the right to permission may be exercised separately, but if they only work one of the parents, this is what they are entitled to permission. The same is true of the amendments to article 124, which aims to add to the permission of the other parent by birth or adoption of a child those who are not married or actually united by the same affectivity relationship. Look, it's just that permission is given for being a parent, nobody talks about their relationship -- if they're a couple, if they're actually partners -- it's just because they're a parent. Or even Article 117, which AGE intends to restrict to the school area, when the regulation of the article, as drafted, includes other family issues, and we therefore consider that it is much broader than the reduction it wants to make AGE unique and exclusively to the school area. Or article 106, which refers to reductions and adaptations in the workday for the care of children with cancer or any serious illness that involves hospital admission. It seems to us that a amendment that is supposed to restrict to 75% when the law itself gives to 99%, and is therefore more favourable than what the amendment seeks. Some of them may seem surprising, we find it important not to reduce breast-feeding permits at all, and far from that, the PP increases them. As for the management staff, it's an important novelty in this law to establish the essential legal regime of the management staff of the autonomic administration. And also that service heads are covered by competition, rather than by free designation, with the objective of targeting and professionalizing. The development of the specific competition will be carried out by decree and with trade union participation through negotiation. The truth is, I don't see any possibility of putting any affins or anyone who wants the Government here. And also, as far as management is concerned, it should be remembered that the text we are debating today is more restrictive than the current state legislation, which was also adopted at the state level by a left-wing government and supported by three of the four trade union organizations of this autonomous community: Workers' Committees, UXT and CSI-CSIF, as well as the one established in this matter by Lofaxga, which was also approved with the approval of Commissions, UXT and CISF; State legislation that you intend to amend the way to an autonomous law and contravene trade union agreements at that time and – which is most surprising – by calling for issues that will be without union agreement, when it was established here in a rule by them agreed upon. And so, I suppose these trade union organizations, Mrs. Díaz, have very little, or that's my idea; if you consider another matter, I will listen very carefully. As for forest agents, say, ladies and gentlemen, that goes from group C1 to group B, logically this integration is only possible when the staff member is in possession of the required title for this access. So I already reminded you in the paper of the Resolution of 21 June 2007 on EB's instructions. As for whether or not they are authority agents, I remind them that, well, the fact that this law does not collect that they are authority agents does not mean they are not. Because it collects it from Law 7/1992 of river fishing; 9/2001 of nature conservation; 3/2007 of forest fire prevention and defence; 7/2012 of mountains; 13/2013 of hunting. Also Law 7/2012, of Galician mountains, defines how in the exercise of its functions the forest agent will have the status of authority agent, and article 139 of the same standard. And it also happens with the state regulations of the functional forest and nature conservation. And so it's also collected on the draft mountain law. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that in sectoral legislation it is sufficiently collected that they are agents of authority. Well, ladies and gentlemen, we are before the law of economic recovery, but of course we have never lost sight of the control of deficit and financial stability, both principles that have led us to economic recovery. To take us to the bottom of the rescue, he has already applied to the left the lack of control, waste disposal and financial destability. So I agree with Mrs. Díaz that employees and public employees were not at all the cause of the crisis. And so did the citizens in the state-level polls in 2011 and autonomics in 2012.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u22	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u23	Ladies and gentlemen, we are faced with a vanguard rule, a 21st century law that will allow us to modernize and streamline public service and to include in its professionalization its employees and public employees, and at the same time will serve to achieve better and better management, which will ultimately benefit citizens, because it will be a better provision of public services. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u24	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Round of parliamentary groups to define themselves on amendments. Joint Parliamentary Group. Mrs. Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u25	Thank you, President. Well, it's true that the bill has been sent to trade union organizations, and not sent one, two have been sent to them. Another thing is that there was real negotiation, another thing is that the Administration had actually sat with trade union organizations and had opened a constructive dialogue to reach an agreement. Of course it wasn't. That's why it's also true that the opposition coincided with a lot of our amendments, because we collected those claims from the public workers and workers that the People's Party refused to listen to, and that it again refused to listen to when the opposition presented them. So it's not true that there was negotiation. If there is the minimal fulfillment of what has been established, of course; if not, it would be openly already a dictatorship and we would take away the disguise of democracy; therefore you always wear it. It speaks of the return of the extra payment and the specific supplement for 2017. What a achievement! It's the government's debt to public workers and workers. That, by the way, is not to return a voluntary collaboration of workers and public workers to get out of this crisis, it is a cut that is imposed on workers and public workers, as if we were imposed on all citizens all the cuts without asking us at any time and not taking into account any different initiatives that could also prevent the escape of the crisis. But the People's Party has just sold us the great dialogue he had with the opposition as well. And there are lactation halls throughout the administration, as they don't!, they're by law both for the administration and for private companies. But it is also true that he refused to collect other rights on parental and paternal rights that would be well, even some of the amendments tabled by the Joint Group that he intended to collect, in addition, also because a little bit of pedagogy on women's equality and rights. As for collective bargaining, collective bargaining is reversed, collective bargaining is prevented, and all possible obstacles are placed, if they were already few. And then there's articles like the 13th, where it says that the administration can unilaterally, if there's no agreement in negotiation with the union centers, to impose the working conditions. Or Article 153, which gives the Administration the power to breach agreements with trade union centres on economic matters. However, public workers and workers are not allowed to breach these agreements when their wages are unilaterally reduced and their working conditions worsened, and those economic reasons that affect their lives are not enough to breach agreements. If we talk about other issues, such as transparency, of course, we lose transparency with the limitation of the ability of trade union organizations to participate in the selection processes of employees and public employees, as well as in the ease and expansion of the appointment of executive positions. So we've lost transparency within the administration itself. And we lost transparency and lost democratic quality with initiatives such as performance assessment, which there is no way to measure and which only serves to punish those who are not docile to the Administration. As it also facilitates the pursuit of privatizations and introduces another formula as technical discretion, which is clear that what prevents courts from resorting to inconsistencies or possible illegalities carried out by the Administration. It's also eliminated and it's not agreed to pay 100 percent of the sick leave to employees and public employees, as if I'm sick was a luxury and not a health problem. Once again they introduce the specific contest as a formula for use, they increase the role of the specific contest. So let's reload and increase the chances of appointments to the finger. They limit and refused to accept all the amendments that were intended to improve the attention of the elderly and dependents through the permits collected for their attention in the law, as well as many of the maternity permits that were collected. They also refuse, depending also on this reconciliation of work and family life, to make, prior to the OPE, an internal promotion that brings public staff closer to their homes, but instead you follow the public workers' itineraries. And they introduce the deferred payouts to start making private retirement insurance for workers and public workers. That is, you, by law, encourage and say that the Administration is going to bet on ending public retirement benefits. And they start betting for winning the big bank. And, to finish, a great attack on the use of our language and on the recognition of our language in the Administration. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u26	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. Mrs. Peace.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u27	Thank you, Mr. President. I said, Mrs Prado, that there was a great coincidence in many amendments that we made from the parliamentary groups, and that for the People's Party was an element not to take them into account, not to accept them, when, in fact, those amendments that coincided with the parliamentary groups were also the coincidence, almost unanimously, of the trade union organizations representing public employees in Galicia to make a statement that it was impossible in practice that there was a legitimate negotiation of this name with the administration in connection with the Public Service Bill which was referred to Parliament. We want to nude some of the issues Mrs. Prado said by handing out what's written, right? With regard to the question of the integration of forest agents and delineators into Group B, we are, of course, surprised that, having the title, what is only called by the People's Parliamentary Group is a resolution by the Ministry for the implementation of EBEP. Because, of course, I would like to know where the legislative hierarchy and the legislative capacity of this Parliament remains when it is no longer only that we are encorsed by what EBEP has – which has character or rank of law – but even by regulations by the state. Of course, I don't think that should be an object so that we could have found a solution here, just like with regard to the approximately one thousand workers who are affected by the issue because they are undefined as a result of judicial judgments. We, apart from maintaining our amendments, will also vote in favour of the amendments of the other parliamentary groups, because we believe that, firstly, with all the processing of this bill, the right to collective bargaining has been violated. I insist again that through this law there are matters that had to be covered by collective bargaining, as is all that has to do with the terms of remuneration, and with the return of that money that the Administration owes to public employees arising from decisions such as those of extraordinary wages. There is another aspect in the area of remuneration that is not envisaged, and that we also formulate as an amendment, which is: when will public employees recover the level of procurement that they have lost in recent years? Not only the derivative of the extra payments, but of the rest of the wages that have been reduced to them, of the days of vacations they have lost, of the days of own affairs they have lost, which should also be object or matter of collective bargaining. With regard to the matter of extraordinary payments, I have to say, Mrs Prado, is that what appears in the amendment you have tabled, and that is therefore incorporated as the first tenth transitional provision, I only partially contradicted what was originally established in the bill and also in memory of what resources the Administration would devote to that return of extra payments. I have to say that in that transitional provision it continues to figure out that the fund mentioned in the previous line, i.e. that of the progressive recovery up to 2018 of extraordinary payments, will collect for a maximum period of three years the appropriation needed to complete the reinstatement of the remuneration adjusted to the application of the real decree. And he also says that the funds of this fund will be financed in the same way, proportional increase of the university system as well. But in the law itself it states that this will be in a three-year process, and, of course, it is not guaranteed – and in economic memory it was subject to global economic conditions – as much as it will be given...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u28	Go to the end, Mrs. Paz, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u29	...that background every year. We are also against it, and we support the amendments made by all parliamentary groups, because we believe that this law does not provide public services to the extent that the staff do not rest, the 1,500 workers of the Labour and Welfare Council, the 3,000 of education and also the thousands of public health. The cuts in public employees' rights are strengthened, such as not to receive 100 per cent of pay in case of sickness or non-work accidents.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u30	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u31	The extermination of the Greek language in the Public Service is strengthened, whenever knowledge of the Greek language is not required by public employees, and therefore citizens' right to be served in Greek is not guaranteed. We regret this missed opportunity to make a Law of Public Service adapted to a professionalized administration and really to the service of citizens, of the people and of public services, and that you would opt for a law that would be instrumentalizing...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u32	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u33	...public administration and that also officials, like this Parliament, want to convert them into a simple political terminal of the People's Party. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u34	Thank you. Thank you, Mrs. Paz. Parliamentary Group of the Alternative Left Gallega, Mrs Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u35	Mrs Prado, the truth is that the qualitative adjectives you have used on this standard are more than questionable. Either you didn't know what the artistic vanguards were, and even the vanguards in a political sense, or you really don't understand what you just said. Because this norm – as I told you before – places us at the worst of franchiseism, in the gray times of politics – in fact, in the broad sense or the grey ones – of human resources. Where there was to be someone's son in order to get into the public administration. In those days, too, you come back tomorrow, in those gray times, so I reaffirm myself in the model you said, and unfortunately not in the vanguards and the lucidity they brought. You were talking about, of the more than 800 amendments, 400 – you said in the Commission – were repeated. He pointed out that many were brought here by the unions, by the opposition groups. Indeed, the only group that is completely isolated from what's going on in the world, and is here like a sort of fort, which is this German Parliament, is the People's Party, which is not related to anyone. And, of course, this rule has not been agreed with any class union. It was very good that you mentioned here that Lofaxga and other rules had reached certain union consensus, but this is not the case, Mrs. Prado, with no one's support and there is social alarm in the public administration regarding this rule. So we are – let's say – in a great metaphor of the People's Party, which is the isolated People's Party in the House with respect to a rule that will actually affect thousands of workers and that will be most relevant to our country. The People's Party is completely isolated. Then you said a truth, even though we fought it. It is true that you are concerned about this rule is to preserve the public deficit and the so-called financial stability emanating from Europe. That's true. But they have a little problem, and it's that everything grows in Galicia, unemployment and these things, but it also grows in a helpless manner the public debt, Mrs. Prado. It would therefore be appropriate, in respect of the data which have been published from compliance with the deficit, which, if true, also took these issues into account. Actually, some of the issues you were saying. With regard to Article 22, which has a great deal of relevance to our country – you know – and this group, in addition, is starting to do so, if it is already collected in sectoral standards the quality of authors of some body and of what we talk about, both in the case of emergency services and – in the second case – in the 2000 standard of the former forest agents, because if so, Mrs Prado, it maintains the wording that the Alternative Left Galega asks of it. If so, don't get in the way, put in writing, accept this amendment, and let's preserve emergency groups, and particularly firefighting personnel, of being privatized, because that's the conclusion that it involves being clothed with authoritas, which is, quite rightly, that you can't do business with them. Indeed, then there are absolutely calculated indeterminations. I've talked about this imperative spirit in collective bargaining, but there are indetermination strategies calculated as they are, for example, those that reach the drafting of workers' and public workers' days. We ask them to carry out these days clearly, so that it does not give rise to any other type of indeterminations or any other kind of news in the coming times. As far as additional provision is concerned, the qualification in group B of certain personnel that we have already mentioned, of what we are talking about here, Mrs Prado, is that of course it's an interpretation of the same, but that doesn't solve the problem that we have in our country. And we're not telling him he doesn't comply with the law, we're aware of the debates or the limits we can have, but what we're urging him in the seventh, eighth and ninth disposition, is just giving out hundreds and hundreds of workers and workers who will stay as they were, or in the worst indetermination, Mrs. Prado. Yes, with respect to consolidation processes, we're going to stay as we were or worse. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u36	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u37	I'm going to finish. Then, I respect – and I end already – the extra and other payments, Mrs. Prado, it's not about this, it's not exactly what they're doing. You here invoked that the Socialist Party also cut off workers and public workers. We know that. But if they fight that, they're exemplary, because we don't care whether they cut the Socialist Party or cut the People's Party, they're cutting public workers and workers, and it's deeply unfair. So it's a waste of opportunity, and, of course, this standard incorporates us into the times of gray in the broad sense.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u38	Thank you, Mrs. Díaz. Socialist Parliamentary Group. Mr. Sánchez Bugallo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u39	Thank you very much again, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the first thing I would like to talk about a little is the peculiar sense that the People's Party has of what negotiation means. So far we all understand – or out of here you can understand – that negotiation is that the different interlocutors sit at a table and there is a transaction, some yield to one thing, others yield to another, and if you look for a point of common agreement. Here, in this House, ladies and gentlemen – and I suppose in other areas it will happen exactly the same – the People's Party, with its majority parliamentary and with its parliamentary mathematics, we all know that the final result is 8-6 in Commission and 41-34 in plenary, unless there is a lack of any of the parts, because things are solved like this. So negotiation is another way. We're willing to talk about it, about it and about it, and the rest stays the way it is. And in this, in this and this, in fact, perhaps something is accepted, but a global agreement is never possible because the People's Party itself determines and heeds the scope of what it is willing to negotiate. He's not willing to negotiate on the overall content of the law. In fact, all the amendments to the whole fell, and that's where a global alternative to the law was proposed. There was a full, not too long ago, in which the amendments rightly fell to the whole. Secondly, I would like to say to you, Mrs Prado and members of the People's Parliamentary Group, that I, in this law - I must reiterate and repeat - see the obligations perfectly adjusted, I see perfectly adjusted the powers of the Government, but I do not see the rights of all citizens guaranteed at all. I speak again of a basic principle: transparency. You tell me, tell me, what are the guarantees of the right to transparency. For example, not even in that register that will depend on the public service counsellor, where the contracts and conditions of this staff manager will be, anywhere says that this will be public, as I understand it must be. If you know the president's salary, you should know the wages and working conditions of the people who are part of that governing body; however, this is not the case here. By the way, what you put yourself in, and if you listen, is that they won't be part of collective bargaining. That's if it's clearly clumsy. I repeat, what's a secret at the Galician Council? The Galician Union is not NATO, therefore, the concept of secrecy must be heeded. I'll give you an example. I've been trying to figure out at what price industrial soil plots are sold. I don't know anything until today. Is it a secret that an official informs this humble deputy of what price is being sold on industrial soil plots? Can that official be punished for giving that data to a deputy or any other citizen? It doesn't appear to be defined which is the professional secret, but it does appear that it may be a serious or very serious lack, depending on what is determined. In short, ladies, I want to finish. This law does not solve the problems of professional career. In this law, there are no guarantees in the evaluation processes in general, in the specific contests, much less in the free designations or in the management staff. There are no quantitative limits in this law for any staff. This law does not even guarantee proper deadlines for the recovery of the purchasing power of public officials and employees, and full recovery of retained quantities. Of course, in this law – and it doesn't seem to me to be casual, but I think it's not their object – it doesn't guarantee either the independence, professionalism, objectivity or impartiality of the Public Administration. This law is a loss of an extraordinary opportunity to define an administrative and civil service model for Galicia. In short, this law is a law that is a missed opportunity. Mrs Prado, I would say that this is not the law of economic recovery, for me it is the law of strengthening political control of the public administration. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u40	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez Bugallo. People's Parliamentary Group. Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u41	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I will begin by telling Mrs. Díaz that in 2014 Galicia has been the autonomous community of common regime that has increased its debt in absolute and relative terms, and since 2008 it is the second autonomous community that has increased its indebtedness. I'm going to answer some questions that remained pending from the previous debate. On the non-definition in the provision of posts for free designation, I tell you that it is not true because the free designation will be reduced virtually to general sub-directions and high-ranking secretaries, which is precisely what the bi-party established in Law 13/2007. As for possible staff, I know they don't like to talk about the bipartisan either, but six years later it's inevitable to keep comparing in this area, right? because the current government has reduced by more than 33% the potential staff with respect to the previous government; we're at the level of the year 2004. Mr. Bugallo, as far as transparency is concerned, there is a state law of transparency which I recommend you read because you regulate all these issues, and I approve it by the People's Party. And soon you will also enter the House a law of transparency of the Autonomous Community in which I also invite you to present those initiatives which, by the way, did not present an amendment to this rule. And I am surprised that you appeal here now to matters that have not been amended, but that you have not introduced in the debate. If I may have a joke, to find out what the industrial plots cost, it's half what Mr. Besteiro's cost; so ask Mr. Besteiro, divided by half, and he has the price of the industrial plots. [[Applause]] The minimum strike services have been discussed here. Nor is it true that there is abusive regulation, since, on the contrary, there are now clear judicial statements about it. And about the performance assessment, which AGE talked about, it's fake to present a bias of control of people. In no case does the project establish a subjective evaluation of the public employee by a superior. On the contrary, the law provides that this valuation system will be established in a later regulation and that, in any event, in that regulatory process, trade unions will participate. Be calm, Mrs. Díaz, that the unions have room for this negotiation. As for the language, I would also like to make some appreciation. There are amendments to Article 51 of the Mixed Groups, BNG and AGE, and the reference to Article 6.3 of the 1983 Law, of June 15, of linguistic normalization, is unnecessary and unnecessary from the point of view of normative technique. The only group that does not amend in this sense is the Socialist Group, and I understand that it is because we share the suggestion that the knowledge of the Greek language is guaranteed by means of a specific test or accreditation by the means established in the current legislation on language policy, and the realization of one or more evidence of the opposition in the Greek language is not considered necessary to ensure this purpose that you propose. It also seeks to abolish linguistic rights as constitutional rights by way of amendment 45 of the Galician Nationalist Block. Yesterday the Galego Nationalist Block came to the Constitutional Court to defend constitutional rights. I recommend that you read article 3 of the Constitution, that in terms of language you usually forget and therefore use the Constitution whenever you want, and when you don't, you don't care and you don't seem like a higher-ranking standard that you have to meet and respect. You, ladies and gentlemen, make a defense of the Greek language so far away from the feeling of citizenship that – I told you in committee, Mrs. Paz – it seems that they only defend the language by nationalists, and this will only make it possible for the nationalists to be the executioners of their own language who both seek to protect and both seek to defend, when the People's Party and the rest of the groups we also defend the language as the official and priority language in Galicia. Ladies and gentlemen, there are improvements in this law that bring improvements to public employees. In Articles 80 and 81, the vertical and horizontal internal promotion of career staff; in Article 121, the 18-week paid birth permit. The number of public employees affected was 1,218 in 2013 and 1,105 in 2014, so we're talking about more than 1,000 people, employees or public employees, who can benefit from the 18-week delivery permit that we provide for in this rule. One measure, ladies and gentlemen, whose implementation is cost-effective for the administration, since it must be borne in mind that the Council of Galicia will take care of the cost of the additional weeks that exceed 16 of the State's basic legislation. If it is true that for us this is not a cost, it is an investment, and that is why we have increased it by amending the People's Parliamentary Group. Also for adoption or reception permission...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u42	Please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u43	...at 18 weeks, and the sickly drop in Article 145 and the recovery of staff pay levels to the public service of the Autonomous Community, which – as I told them – amounts to 200 million euros, even if you don't want to see it. I'm done. Mrs. Díaz, you can continue to be installed in that archaic discourse, which is so distant and isolated from today's society. We'll keep working because today's an important day. Today we adopt a rule that materializes a fact: economic recovery. We will adopt a law that seeks to modernise and streamline public service by incorporating administrative simplification measures...;
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u44	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u45	...a law that introduces a common framework for all administrations of the Autonomous Community, but also, ladies and gentlemen, a law that incorporates rights that carry with it a budgetary increase. Budget increase which is not the cost of reducing any other games or removing them...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u46	Thank you. Finish it, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u47	...no right or service. This is the law of the public service of economic recovery. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u48	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Debate taken into account by the G.P. People in Galicia, reform of Law 6/1985, of 24 June, of the Council of Auditors, and other rules, for the prevention of corruption
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u49	For the presentation of this bill Mr. Puy Fraga has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u50	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, a simple look at any sociological study on the views of Galician citizens and the rest of the Spaniards on which their main political concerns are at present, shows that the main problems that their representatives have to respond to are, by this order: the unemployment and economic situation, the social crisis that this economic crisis has caused, and also the crisis of confidence in institutions, especially driven by the behavior of some members of the so-called political class that has affected most, the vast majority, of the parties that have been responsible for government in recent years. That's what the Sociological Research Center shows through its barometer. In March 2011 the concern about corruption and fraud was shared by 4.5% of Spaniards; in March next year, by 12%; in March 2013, by 44%; it continues to grow to peak in November 2014 with almost 64% of concern, and is in the last known barometer in 50%. We are therefore – and I think we can match all the groups in this – in the face of a problem that needs to be addressed. There are, of course, different ways to address this problem. The first is to ignore it, the policy of the ostrich, to hide his head and make an obvious problem. The second is to use it sectarianly and favourably. This can be done with two objectives. The first objective is to dissect the political opponent, magnifying the ball or straw in the alien eye, without seeing the beam or the whole building in his own eye. Or even, secondly, since the supposed virginity of those who have never enjoyed the confidence of citizenship to question the whole of the democratic institutions that we gave ourselves, consensually and mostly, all the Spaniards in 1978, which allowed Spain to live an unprecedented process of modernization, entry into the European institutions and access and development of our self-government. And there's a third way to address the problem of corruption, which is to do it rigorously, seriously, recognizing its complexity and seeking consensus, bringing together technical knowledge. This third way of addressing the problem is what we want and we defend as our own to eradicate corruption. Moreover, by fighting against it, we contribute to overcoming the economic crisis, because we know that institutions that do not have corrupt behaviour favor economic growth; and also because we know that we contribute to regain the confidence and legitimacy of our democratic institutions and, in our particular case, also of self-government institutions, and thus overcome that crisis of confidence in the behaviour of those we dedicate ourselves to public affairs. And we opt for this third option, recognizing clearly that the shameful and illegal behaviour of some cannot question the honest and exemplary work of the vast majority of public servants, or much less that of the democratic institutions whose action, day by day, is proving that corruption has no place in our society. And precisely because some of these people have acted illicitly and shamefully since our political formation is that we are especially committed to eradicating these behaviors of public life. A few cannot harm the honest work of thousands of public servants, thousands and thousands of people, men and women, who have contributed since 1977, since our political formation, as well as from other democratic formations, to the development of democracy in our country and to building a more just and better society. PP – as I said – is committed to the eradication of corruption. The central government, chaired by Mariano Rajoy, has promoted and approved numerous legislative measures to improve the quality of our democracy and regain the confidence of citizenship, such as the Transparency Act, the Political Party Financing Act, a strict regime for the exercise of the high office of State administration or the tightening of penalties for cases of corruption. In Galicia, the government chaired by Feijóo is also developing a plan of democratic impulse with 5 laws – of which this is one of them – which are the law of citizen participation, a law of financing the Galician political parties, the reform we are proposing today of the Council of Auditors, a law that regulates the Legal Counsel and an ambitious legislative text of transparency in Galicia's autonomous and local administration. I was saying a moment ago that corruption is a complex problem. It happens when someone takes advantage of political decision-making mechanisms for his own benefit and prejudices other people or the whole of society. It's a known and studied phenomenon. We know what the causes, their effects and how to minimize these corrosive effects are. The causes have to do with the ability of the public sector to intervene in the economy, which has grown by consensus on the construction of the welfare state in recent decades and which gives the State and public authorities a monopoly power not only of concessions, competition and works awards, but also of numerous subsidies and also of the ability to regulate, both tax regulations and administrative regulations, with decisions that therefore involve allocations or redistribution of resources in which the phenomenon of corruption can often occur. We know that its effects are especially pernicious in every order. From the point of view of the allocation, resources are badly allocated when they are intended to obtain favours and not to please them, to seek, to satisfy, the interests of consumers. So we also know that injustice takes place on the basis of who benefits and who harms, which is the whole of society. Finally, we know that it is bad for economic growth and development, and it deteriorates the institutions themselves by favoring the messianisms and extremist populisms of all kinds. And we also know that their remedies go through institutional reform, prevention, transparency, control before and after spending and sanctions. Well, the bill that I have today the honour to defend on behalf of my group is a proposal for debate and to seek consensus in this House, promoting an institutional action, and which is also consistent with some vote made in this House and supported more than by our group, by a large majority of this House, and also consistent with the contributions made by the experts who came to the Committee on the Prevention of Corruption created in this House. The Proposal for a Law Reform of the Board of Auditors and other media places first and foremost on prevention, which is together with transparency, according to which all experts have said, the best mechanism for preventing and minimizing the possibilities of corrupt practices in the public sector. This was reflected both in his speeches and in the presence in this House of the Director of OLAF, the Anti-Fraud Office of the European Union, or in the Committee of the President of the Court of Auditors of Portugal, or in the presentation also made by the representative in Spain of International Transparency. The bill – as I said – is a document for us to reach a consensus, is open to consensus, and also to technical improvements, because the procedure itself is allowing us to receive contributions from the People's Group with suggestions that we will incorporate ourselves through some amendment. What makes this bill is to pose several great principles: First, assigning the Board of Auditors responsibility for preventing corruption. In the Committee on the Prevention of Corruption which was then the superior prosecutor of the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia, the Chief Prosecutor of the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia, Carlos Varela, defended an opinion that we share, the view that, except for another criterion of greater foundation, in this body, in the field of the Board of Auditors, the prevention of corruption could be resided, resulting in the increase in its legitimacy and certainly in the strengthening of its functions. Because to assign this function to the Board of Auditors is to recognize, as we have done all the groups in this House and well recently when the last monitoring reports were presented, the enormous and positive work that the Board of Auditors is doing to improve the management of public resources in Galicia. And to prevent corruption, in the bill of law, what we are proposing is to clearly assign that competition to the Board of Auditors, the prevention of corruption, we specify what is the content of that competition, we set up the organizational mechanism with the creation of a new section, in which we will work that staff who, according to their own criterion of membership of the Board of Auditors, can contribute from each of the existing areas of work to developing this new competence for the prevention of corruption. And in addition, we introduced, and I think it's something important, because if you have said many times that there are also areas of corruption in the local administration, often because of the lack of personal means, that would be functional in these administrations, there are also functions in relation to the local administration, in terms of the repairs presented by the interveners, so that any local administration before raising a repair can consult a criterion that we want to be homogenous to all of Galicia on the issue of lifting repairs to the Board of Auditors itself. Secondly, as a second major proposal, this bill is intended to enhance the independence and autonomy of the Board of Auditors; firstly, by strengthening the role of the advisors themselves and also the system of choice which guarantees their maximum independence and competence. That's why we introduced in this bill hearings prior to the appointment of account advisors or which are subject to the same transparency standards as the rest of the public office of the Autonomous Administration. And so we try to promote an improvement in the independence of the staff, which from now on will no longer be selected by the system of free designation and will be selected by the system of competition. We also want to improve coordination with both Parliament and the Government of the Union. Under this rule, with this proposal the Council would become the Parliament's advisory body in economic and financial matters. Parliament could therefore ask for advice or reports on any economic and financial matter which it deems appropriate. And it also advances the deadline for accountability to approximate the audits of the Board of Auditors over time, the deadline for accountability of the Board's General Administration. And a coordinating commission is set up with the Self-Government for the purpose of monitoring and boosting the recommendations of the Board of Auditors itself. And thirdly, as a third large measure, we have introduced some novelties that the 1985 law could not contemplate, such as improving the right of audiences or public prosecutors, or the use of telematic communications. We propose, ultimately, a legislative reform that goes and wants to strengthen the commitment, not of the People's Group, but of the whole House, to the eradication of corruption, which aims to strengthen Galician self-government. And no one is spared that this proposal to strengthen the Board of Auditors takes place in the whole of a debate on the Cora report and in the set of actions in other communities that are suppressing these kinds of bodies at an autonomous level; that it wants to improve the control of public spending, not only by strengthening the control capacity that the Board of Auditors already does, but also by introducing measures that the Board of Auditors itself moves towards preventing, preventing and eradicating corruption. And we do it – I also want to emphasize this – as a bill. We're not talking about a government project, we're talking about a group that's clean offering the other groups, from the very least of institutional point of view, the possibility of this House establishing mechanisms that strengthen self-government institutions and contribute to preventing corruption. And we do it by trusting that all groups of this House will be aware that it requires the fight against all forms of public corruption, because that's what the galley society demands from us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u51	Round of parliamentary groups. The Joint Group has the floor to Mrs. Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u52	Thank you, President. Well, I was before I started talking about the law, it was that after listening to Mr. Puy, for you no longer know or say. Because to hear that there is a division of blame and that almost everyone has corrupt, well, balloons out, we're all the same and everyone affects us all corruption. What we don't talk about is that it's true that corruption or corrupt people exist and there can be in all political organizations as well as any other subject, but what is clear is that within the People's Party corruption is structural, it occupies the entire territory of the state and all the institutions it touches. So we're talking about a different and very serious problem. That's why, Mr. Puy, to hear you say that it's a proposal from a clean parliamentary group that really... at least it could shut up and so the rest of us didn't have to answer it. It speaks of the fight against corruption, which is very important for a party as clean as you represent here, but this fight against corruption begins with the intolerance of political parties to protect corruption within their ranks and not present it, for example, as candidates for mayors or mayors not only in corruption research but people even with judgments. So when we talk about the fight against corruption, we should talk about a real struggle from the partisan organization itself, see some internal action in the party, and stop empty laws, just like this proposal for the amendment law of the Board of Auditors is coming completely empty. It aims – according to the bill itself – to respond to the demand for transparency, honesty and effectiveness in the use of public money, and, however, the bill does not compromise any effort on any of these objectives. It's a real shame that after more than 20 years of the Council's work the reform of Law 6/1995 is nothing more than a mere makeup. He speaks of the statement of reasons to strengthen the independence of the Board of Auditors and, however, there is no measure beyond the appearance before Parliament to ensure that independence is achieved. If we talk about effectiveness in the explanatory statement, you can read: "The chosen model (...) avoids incurring additional expenses associated with the creation of new offices, departments or agencies, and allows you to take advantage of the experience of your staff." I mean, the prevention of corruption and transparency are still subject to sacrosanct austerity, unloading all responsibility to a staff who are denied basic rights of what I will talk about. But it's more obvious the propaganda role of the bill when, in addition to not strengthening the Board of Auditors with human and material means, it doesn't provide any specific training for personnel dedicated to the prevention of corruption. The bill, in its explanatory statement, states that it is necessary to reform the Law of the Board of Auditors "in order to strengthen the powers of the external control body of the Autonomous Community, its independence and its effectiveness and capacity to cooperate with other institutions." However, in the articulated there is no measure to achieve such an end. The bill, in addition to attributing to the Board of Auditors competences in the prevention of corruption, entitles many others without compromising the technical, material and human resources necessary for their assumption. Among these functions, Parliament is advising on economic and financial matters, monitoring political formations, high office assets, issuing opinions and consultations and attending Parliament's consultations on budgeting and its execution, issuing optional reports at the request of the local government, analysing the demands and complaints of citizens. And as for the prevention of corruption, it must develop codes of conduct, check systems for the prevention of corruption, advise Parliament on the prevention and suppression of corruption, encourage mechanisms for the self-regulation of the private sector, initiate procedures for monitoring for complaints from anyone. I mean, it's given a lot of functions in the fight and prevention against corruption, but the Board of Auditors is not strengthened. We therefore ask what means are guaranteed to the Board of Auditors in order to fulfil all these powers assigned to it in this bill. On the other hand, the bill opens up the possibility of establishing collaborative protocols with private entities in order to improve the exercise of the functions of the Board of Auditors, but does not define what this collaboration will consist of. This means that Parliament intends to legalise the irregular situation in which most of the staff currently working on the Board of Auditors are located, as well as their working conditions. The persons currently assigned to the Board of Auditors are in a situation of free designation or as temporary staff in some cases with an age of 20 years. A staff other than professional career, internal promotion according to a system of bodies and scales, a staff without rights, a staff who has been applying for the negotiation of its own status for six years, as has been done with the Staff Regulations of the Galician Parliament and the regulatory agreement on the working conditions of officials serving the Galician Parliament. However, the bill insists on maintaining in this situation the staff that is already in the service of the Board of Auditors and using the specific contest for the appointment of the new staff. We don't understand why we don't call an OPE. In the Board of Auditors their members and workers have already legally established their duty of professional secrecy, which is afraid that the People's Party will access it through an OPE and not a specific contest, which ultimately comes to be more of the same? A bill that, as the People's Party customarily has, commends the staff of the Board of Auditors but has not taken it into account for the processing of this law. How can a bill be put forward to ensure the transparency, honesty, effectiveness and independence of any entity without counting on persons who are part of it? Where are the transparency and honesty of the People's Party, which presents a bill for the reform of the Board of Auditors to the workers of the People's Party? We barely begin in transparency. The People's Party must work on that version of trade union organizations, because without active trade union organizations there is no transparency, no prevention of corruption, no fairness, no control of the controller, which in the end seems to be what the People's Party is looking for. If the People's Party really wants to move forward in preventing and combating corruption, ensuring transparency in public accounts and the honesty of public officials, it must promote a parliamentary agreement and union representation that guarantees the active involvement of the whole society. You must understand that all the budget to prevent and fight corruption in the Welsh public sector is not a expense, it is a necessary and urgent investment that will grow in the Greek economy and in the well-being of its population. The fight against corruption requires commitment and effort. It is impossible to move forward in prevention without trained and independent human means, truly independent. And that can only be achieved with access through opposition where everyone has the same rights. Desires and laws without actual commitments are useless. They're just propaganda. A Board of Accounts without means to fight and prevent corruption does not serve in the fight against corruption, it's just makeup and it's just propaganda. A commitment which is not seen in the People's Party, which voted against all the recommendations that called for strengthening the Board of Auditors or the obligation to comply with its recommendations. How does the People's Party use this bill and order the Council of Auditors to fight against corruption and the prevention of corruption when it voted against that the Board of Auditors' recommendations should be enforced? will it only comply with those recommendations which the People's Party is interested in and which it does not care about?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u53	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u54	I'm done, Madam President. Because the Board of Auditors has already warned of corruption issues that are linked to administrative concessions, and you voted against fulfilling the recommendations of the Board of Auditors, which would be geared towards preventing corruption in that area. Therefore, we are facing a proposal for a basically propaganda law and in which we will vote against it. And we ask the People's Party to withdraw it and to present a bill that is really silent and that actually provides the Human and Material Media Accounting Council for the fight and the prevention of corruption. And also take into account the regularization already at once of the working situation of the employees of the Board of Auditors. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u55	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. Parliamentary Group of the Galician Nationalist Block, Mr. Jorquera Caselas has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u56	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Group, in politics and in life forms are very important, they are usually defining the substance. You are not an opposition group that has to resort to legislative proposals as a way of boosting legislative activity in this House; you are the group that supports the Government and the group that most in this Parliament, to a large extent the government of this Parliament also depends on you. And we say this because there were two other ways to reform the Law of the Council of Auditors: one, that the Government should send a bill to this Parliament, a project that in the preliminary phase would have to be subject to the process of consultations that you are now jumping through; the other, that they should promote the creation of a parliamentary presentation with the participation of all groups and giving audiences to the organ itself and all the agents involved. The latter is undoubtedly the most appropriate, because we are talking about a statutory body that directly emanates from Parliament and not from the Executive. But no, you put forward a bill to allegedly strengthen the Board of Auditors, propose to significantly expand its field of competence, even propose to introduce mechanisms for the initiation of control procedures through complaints sent by citizens and associations. And they do all this without counting on the Board of Auditors itself, without consulting the professionals who work in this body, without incorporating measures to really ensure, and not by mouth, the autonomy and independence of the Board of Auditors, and without incorporating measures to provide the Board of Auditors with more means, more human and material resources to assume the new functions. And in case it has been little, while they are still failing to comply with the current law, because as a majority group they have an obvious responsibility in which the renewal of this body has not yet been carried out, and the Greek Government continues to consistently disregard the recommendations made by the Council in the exercise of the powers currently entrusted to it. Look, gentlemen of the People's Group, the problem with this proposal is that it's smoke, propaganda, it's not credible. BNG agrees to provide the Anti-Corruption Competence Board. We signed up for Mr. Carlos Varela's proposals. Moreover, the BNG would go further, it would also assign to the Board of Auditors part of the functions which the Court of Auditors is now carrying out, including, for example, jurisdiction in the field of adjustment, even if the organic law of the State Court of Auditors had to be reformed for this purpose. In the centralizing fever that we are living in, there came to be voices in the People's Party that wondered what meaning they had seventeen tribunals of accounts in the autonomous communities. Mr. Puy himself referred to the Cora Report. Fortunately, the Council of Auditors in Galicia is shielded by the Statute. I would ask you to imagine, when the work of controlling public accounts is more important than ever, that this function depended solely on the State Court of Auditors; a Court of Auditors which is already in total and absolutely overburdened today, without the ability to effectively carry out its work. But to expand the powers of the Board of Auditors there are two basic premises: First, equip him with more means, more resources. The chief adviser himself in office said in this Parliament that the assumption of new functions would require more resources and therefore more budget. On the other hand, Mr. Puy stated that the current resources are sufficient, and in the text of the proposal it says textually that "the chosen model avoids incurring additional costs". And I ask them, I ask them to reply to the following: do you really think that the Council can assume competences in the prevention of corruption, in the control of the economic and financial activity of the parties receiving subsidies from the Autonomous Community, in the control of the evolution of the high office heritage, in the advice of Parliament in the economic and financial matters, without significantly improving the means they have? Look, we believe in the professionalism of the staff working at the Board of Auditors, but of course we don't believe in the superwomen or we don't believe in ourselves. And the second premise, Mr. Puy, is to ensure the independence of the organ. It is in the guest court Mr. Jesús Palmou, who deserves my full respect, but I do not believe that the independence of the body is ensured by promoting to the body former secretaries general of a particular political party; I do not believe that the independence of the body is promoted when, in thirty years of the existence of the Board of Auditors, the situation of staff remains unregulated; I do not believe that the independence of the body is ensured when most of the staff of the Board of Auditors are in an interim situation. Precautionary, lack of stability is incompatible with independence, gentlemen of the People's Party. Look, there's a saying that paper holds everything. But, as we said before, the problem with this proposal is that it's not credible, it's smoke, it's propaganda. It is part of the elevator operation that Mr. Feijóo announced in this gallery when he appeared in theory to account for his inhibition of corruption cases and he introduced it as a careful appearance to give democratic impulse. You try to cover up, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, your failure to compromise to fight against the corruption present by looting empty proposals from the gossip to make you think they're going to fight against future corruption. Proposals that seek only the coup d'affect, the newspaper holder of the day, because they are not accompanied by the necessary measures to ensure that the fight against corruption is effective. As we said in that debate, the fight against corruption is not preached, it is practiced. The first thing you have to do to make your proposals credible is fight corruption in practice, and you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, don't. You keep looking the other way in front of the multiple corruption scandals that affect your party. You keep looking elsewhere at the alleged irregular funding for decades of your party, and, according to all indications, the Galician People's Party is a central part of that intruder. You keep looking to the other side in the face of the multiple cases of imputation of charges of your party; the list of defendants of the Galician People's Party is endless, and many of them still above are candidates in the upcoming municipal elections. So, gentlemen of the People's Group, your proposals are smoke curtains, they're distractions. Because they're pure smoke, pure propaganda, the Galician Nationalist Block will vote against this People's Group proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u57	Thank you very much. Parliamentary Group of the Alternative Left Gallega, has the word Mr. Ramón Vázquez Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u58	Good morning to all and to all. We've come this far, haven't we? The lack of ten days for the start of the electoral campaign, in full precipitate, the People's Party presents this initiative on the prevention of corruption through the Board of Auditors. While the Prosecutor's Office of Corruption has just found in his letter of indictment the existence of a box B in the People's Party and its civil responsibility for the parallel accounting accounting of this organization; when citizenship in today's day has not yet been recovered from the rape caused by the theft and looting perpetrated by Mr. Rato and other rats, those who from the International Monetary Fund have received cuts from the International Monetary Fund for citizenship; when we know that Mr. Pujalte and the illustrist Ambassador of London, Mr. Trillo, have still not been recovered from today's citizenry because of the theft and plunder caused by theft by Mr. Rato and other rats, when the former secretary of the Popular People's Party's organization, Mr. Pablo Crespo, on the same dates as Mr. Feijoio was travelling on the yacht with a drug traffickers drug traffickers, Mr. Trillo, acknowledged that they were collecting money and that this figure was doubled in the electoral campaign; when we know that at the moment we have the time we have the 10 times the use of the use of the popular use of the popular use of the popular use of the popular use of the popular use of the popular use of the popular use of the popular as as as as as as as the People People People People's, and the United spend, and the United spend and the United spend as as as as as as the United spend used as as as a U spend and the United spend and the United spend and the United spend and the use as as as as as as as as as as as as the most most used used used used as as as as as the most most most most most most most most most used used used as as as as as as as as as as as as as as as as as as as as as as the most, the most, the United spend the most, the United spend the United spend the United spend the United spend the United spend the United spend the United spend the United spend the United spend and as as as as as as as as as as as as as as as as as as as as as the most most most the most the most the most most most the most most most most most most most the United spend the most the most the most the United spend the United spend the United spend the United spend spend spend spend the United spend spend spend spend spend spend spend spend spend spend spend spend spend and as as as as That is the democratic regeneration that Mr. Puy proposes to us, I imagine. And, as I said, in the middle of the day, this bill is being introduced to prevent corruption. This country, of course, does not deserve this government, this country does not deserve the group that supports this government. In addition, this proposal is made by the procedure expressed from the majority group, without draft, without preliminary draft law and, of course, without the prior possibility of bringing any closer, only from now on. It is done without talking to the staff of the Board of Auditors, that is the most important thing; without speaking to their representatives, without listening to the board of Auditors' Personal Meeting – so they have witnessed it – without even talking to the board of Auditors. There was a rush – we imagine – to present this initiative in full campaign; it was an initiative with a purely cosmetic end, with an aesthetic end. A law that is basically based on constituting a new section for the prevention of corruption. They'll let me sum it up in a big way this way. By means of an article, Article 5a, which confers powers such as working with the Administration, requesting information, advising Parliament, raising awareness and citizen participation, etc., etc. New and diffuse functions, but no new media, new resources; quite the opposite. The situation of the Board of Auditors is obviously abandoned. Sixty-three out of sixty-five workers were appointed for free designation; I suppose that is how independence is guaranteed, that is the way to guarantee independence! There's an interim rate that exceeds 12%, two of the councillor's own squares are vacant, and that of the senior advisor himself has been extended since 2013. Since 2009 the Staff Negotiation Bureau has introduced a Staff Regulations Schedule for the Galician Board of Auditors; we imagine that it remains stored in the drawer, which follows in the drawer. And you will see, gentlemen of the People's Party: to fight corruption you have to have means; to work in the fight against corruption you have to guarantee security, autonomy, independence of staff in the service of the Board of Auditors; you must have well-defined bodies and scales, contrary to what happens now; you must regulate precisely the form of access; and you must end with indefinition and precariousness. But not only does the law solve these problems of the Board of Auditors, but it makes them worse, it makes them worse. In fact, Article 17 is amended where it is pointed out that the staff of the Board of Auditors will be governed by the legislation regulating public employment in Galicia, and we have just talked about that law. And so we have already passed a Galician Public Employment Act, in which through that law the Council of Auditors has established a specific system of procurement for the assignment of staff, a specific competition which envisages the possibility of 45% of the barrem through the process of personal interview. New way to ensure independence in access to such an important supervisory function as the Board of Auditors carries out! Subjective criteria are therefore introduced in the appointment of the Board of Auditors workers. And that is directly against the independence of the supervisory body, and thus it is not possible to guarantee a minimum performance of functions worthy of the Board of Auditors. Auditors, auditors, audit techniques, administrative assistants, secretaries and secretaries need independence, but also means, autonomy and also the ability to do their work with rigour. Because otherwise what you're betting is precisely because you generate a deep impotence in front of the least numerous cases of corruption that haunt our country. But not just that, not just that. In the work plan for 2015, presented in the Commission for Relations with the Board of Auditors – in recent times, by the way – there is a reduction in staff, specifically one less audit assistant, in the above paragraph, as is not the case, to the audit of local corporations, the local corporations of the People's Party. What a coincidence, it's just a personal reduction in the audit of local corporations! By the way, a work plan – 2015 – which was presented to the groups in the Committee on Relations with the Board of Auditors once it was already presented and carried out. So they will hardly be able to assume that plan of work the opposition groups' proposals. So if the Government of Greece, if the People's Party, if the group that supports the Government wants to work decisively in the fight against corruption, it must assume the proposals – as Mr. Puy said – of the Chief Prosecutor of the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia, which passed, yes, by implementing the functions of the Board of Auditors, but also by the creation of a specialized prosecutor's office, of a specialized anti-corruption unit. But when the Left Gaga Alternative Group brought these measures to Parliament, it goes against it. That is the will of consensus to which I referred – I suppose – Mr Puy. The rule, ultimately and summarily, does not allow, does not improve the execution of a strong action against corruption by the Board of Auditors. And we can sum it up in a cluster of contradictions; contradictions because what you are asking for are more functions with less means, and that is impossible to sustain from the point of view, at least, logical; contradictions and redundancy, because you present a change in Article 5, where you consider the derivation of cases where there are indications of accounting crime to the Court of Auditors, something that actually already existed; contradictions, redundancy and also incongruence, as in the case of Article 23, where you talk about the creation of a joint commission, formed by the Council of Auditors and the General Intervention of the Council of Galicia, and let me say: with clear sights of interference, that joint commission. So contradictions, redundancy, incongruence and tibiasity. Article 28 of the Sanctions Section lays down penalties ranging from EUR 600 to EUR 6,000. Of course, when we talk about tax offences or corruption crimes involving millions of euros to an individual or an entity, they put a penalty of 600 euros. I suppose it'll be profitable to corrupt yourself, or I don't know if that's what the government wants. Take note of the Prosecutor's recommendations. And, of course, we believe that it is necessary to create a unit specialized in the fight against corruption, but many other measures. Alternative Galician Left, through its spokesperson, has presented a complete program of fight against corruption, more than fifty measures: measures that called for precisely the creation of this anti-corruption Greek prosecution; measures to provide material resources for the judges who are fighting tirelessly...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u59	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u60	...against corruption, as is the case with Judge No. 1 Lugo, whose personal means are taken away, administrative personnel, support judges, and this is how it is intended to fight corruption; the creation of new judicial bodies; the creation of new criminal types and hardening of penalties against corruption; the expansion of disability for corruption-related crimes; a new Law on Financing of Galician Political Parties; a new Law on Institutional Advertising; a new Act on Election; a reduction of self-designation staff; a new Law on Galician soil, which will be done to expand corruption cases linked to urbanism. That's where you have to prove the political will, the opposite is a mere exercise of political camouflage, a cosmetic operation...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u61	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u62	...And what I would ask them, what the people of Greece are asking for, is that they quit cosmetic surgery and apply the scalpel, razen with corruption, assume responsibilities, and really break with...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u63	Thank you very much, Mr Vázquez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u64	...structural corruption that excites your party. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u65	Socialist Group, you have the floor Mr. Méndez Romeo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u66	Mr. Puy, today in your speech, I was reminded of a very famous story, one of the most interesting stories of an exceptional writer, Jorge Luis Borges. The tale, you'll probably get to know it, is called "The Garden of Roads that Forge. " In a Chinese pursued by an Irish fugitive, he discovers the secret of the maze, kills someone who had nothing to do with the problem and thus launches a message urbi et orbi. It's a very philosophical story that involves problems that are widely discussed by experts. Because you, Mr. Puy, who magnificently started his speech by putting on the table a bunch of ideas that no one concerned about the problem of corruption can forget, quickly began the escape. Where to? To look for a propitiatory victim, to look for an organism that passes by and has a collateral relationship but where, through a modification, you want to send a message urbi et orbi that the Government is definitely involved in anti-corruption. Just like the Chinese pursued by the Irish, because you're being prosecuted police and judicially. Mr. Puy, today you are bringing an improvised proposal with no rigour, from which it is easy to deduce that we will not have practical results at the moment, it's about appearing to be done. This is so much so that the Board of Auditors in the Party Finance Bill – which it sends to this House – announces that the Board of Auditors will be reformed within a year. So, what's this proposal for today? In Resolution No. 2 of the last debate in the state of Autonomy, you committed yourself to approving the Commission's ruling on corruption before the end of last year. There was the labyrinth that had to unravel, and there he was walking along the right path in order to do it with a broad consensus. You have abdicated this matter and you have done exactly what you should not, which was to prevent you from having any conclusions, neither to dictate nor to vote in private. They wanted neither agreements nor commitments, only a screen covering the scandalous actions of so many popular political leaders – including President Rajoy, the numerous popular leaders and Galician leaders – because they are scandals that involve nothing less than the illicit financing of his organization at all levels. And today we have the routupage, the purple cloak to invest the new fighters against corruption. So, with the text you put today on the table, you couldn't have detected any of the recent scandals, urbanism, the selection of staff, contracts for goods and services, traffic in influence, or illegal financing. So much so that there is no prior diagnosis of causes and therefore the appropriate strategies cannot be defined to solve them. The important thing is to appoint an official, there will be a body that takes care of this, and there will be someone, yes, of the confidence of most people. Perhaps you're thinking of naming as a new tsar of the fight against corruption an independent jurist of recognized prestige?, maybe a social fighter against corruption?, maybe an intellectual personality of honesty proven in the fight against trafficking in influence and other crimes? It doesn't seem likely. This Government has appointed known residents of the conservative party as members of the Board of Auditors, and from the proposed text there is no caution about the future members; no one is better than an ex-council to ensure that there will be no uncomfortable investigation, inappropriate report or uncontrolled data. And so today the Board of Auditors is presided over by who was the highest leader of the People's Party, precisely when Mr. Crespo organised tax fraud among other actions. Will this be the one who pursues corruption? This fact is decisive in giving credibility to what we are debating today, because it's ontologically impossible, it's an absolute contradiction, it's an oxygen that a government-controlled organ serves as the control of corruption. The lack of credibility totally tracks this project. He even has an ad-hum clause to ensure that one of the current advisers of the 80-year-old People's Party can go on temporarily. In the Sergas, all the doctors and chiefs of service expelled by the military by the age of 65, just when the templates are closed, and here we need an exceptional man's contest. Perhaps – this group is being questioned – because he was the only adviser who proclaimed his loyalty to the President of the Union at the takeover. If the controller theory is self-defined as the controller's servant, what's the point? Does the PP believe that this text would avoid recent scandals, such as illegal financing, plot of false training courses, irregularities in the House of Ourenses, various urban ballasts, friendism in the selection of staff, the winner and friend of the president, and so on? The PP wanted an appearance and the proposal responds to that objective. That's why the Advisory Council has not even been consulted, as its members have just said publicly. That's why the endemic problems of the Council are not solved, such as the staff structure, which is totally dependent on political will, the administrative career orphan and the autonomy of its officials. That's why they avoid equipping them with suitable means to deal with new competences, because they're not real competences, they look like competences. As in the myth of Plato's cave, it's about citizens who only see the reflection of reality take it for themselves. Mr Puy, you could choose to draw up a text in Parliament with appearances and reports. They don't want to, just say that this text will control corruption. Let's go to the text. It is stated that the Council will control the economic activity of the parties. Is the current law and the powers of the Court of Auditors being breached? It indicates that the Council will be able to access the Capital Register of High Duties, but it is obvious that it will not have the ability to investigate and investigate, nor even on tax returns. In this matter, by the way, last month's state law is much more serious. They establish a way of resolving legal remedies which compromises the independence of the Council and which, in any case, would require additional resources, which would deny. They define a framework of relations with the Joint Intervention that turns the supervisory into a reviewer. Special mention, because this does have merit, it deserves the public deception to create a mechanism for citizens to make complaints, when they do not establish effective means or procedures. This will provoke the collapse of the institution. And for the last time, they change a rule of existence again, like the Advisory Council, to introduce more confusion. They are pinned on a legislative proposal, Mr Puy, in any respect, manifestly useless. Citizens must be told something else, they must be told that virtuous democracy is not only a matter of written standards, but also of silent standards, attitudes towards opponents and integration of the difference. This Parliament is a wall of regret. The wall of laments in Jerusalem serves to make the Jews cry out of the lost Solomonic city. Here the wall of regret is a continuous wound in the face of what might have been and not this Parliament, in the face of the loss of constructive parliamentary power in place of majority despotism. If in the parliamentary committee that you have aborted...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u67	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u68	...have listened carefully, they would not present this text today. Mr. Puy, you are lost in your labyrinth, because you just didn't want to follow Ariadne's thread, which was the Commission that was working normally. That is why we will not be able to support this text, because supporting it would be to help confuse citizens. And we must tell them that this rule does not seek to improve our institutions or improve transparency, it only seeks to wash the face of a party and a government unable to order between their institutions and unable to compromise with honesty and decency.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u69	Thank you, Mr. Méndez Romeo. Replica roll. Parliamentary group which is the author of the bill, Mr. Pedro Puy Fraga has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u70	Thank you very much, Madam President. I want to remind you once again that we are in the debate of admission to the procedure, and you when you refuse that if through this, what you refuse and what you vote against is that in Galicia there is someone who prevents corruption, with which they are in evidence, in the same way that they voted against the admission of the procedure of the Act of Participation. [[Applause]] This was done... two reasons were given: form and content. Let me say something about forms: a bill is the method we have for Parliament to reach agreements. If it becomes the Government that presents a bill, they would be saying that the Government, which will be controlled, approved and referred to the law with which they will control it, would have little control over it. I think it's the most respectful system with the development of a statutory institution like this one. Mr. Méndez Romeo came to tell us a beautiful history of Borges and, in fact, used a beautiful history of Borges to tell us a tale which is indeed Chinese. The history of Borges is of Chinese and Irish and the story of Mr. Méndez Romeo is a Chinese tale. Because the second proposal I have heard is that of the Commission, and Mr Méndez Romeo remains committed to saying that the Commission has aborted it by the People's Group. I want to remind you that, when it was constituted on 23 September 2013 in the Commission, the P.O.A.G.E. and Block leave the P.O., they don't want to be. They're not part of the P.O. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] From P.O., yes, ma'am. [[Murmurs.]] [[Mrs. Pontón Mondelo speaks words that are not perceived.]] Sorry, President, I don't have much time.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u71	Yes, but I'm the one I'm going to tell Mrs. Pontón that you don't have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u72	Yeah, that's it, but it didn't stop. [[Murmurs.]] They don't enter the P.O. We then adopted a resolution in which you, the Socialist Party, voted in favour of reforming the Board of Auditors to give it powers to prevent corruption. And besides, which is the nicest thing, Mr. Feijóo summons Mr. Besteiro on November 5 and gives him a plan to be able to agree on it in the Commission. Mr. Méndez Romeo, you know that I asked the Anti-Corruption Commission to convene and pass a document to him. And I passed the document just a few days ago, on November 6, and you didn't answer me; among other things, in that role was the proposal to reform the Board of Auditors. I'm still waiting for you to get a written paper delivered in Phoenicia to give me an answer. [[Applause]] Then they criticize the people who are on the Board of Auditors and say they were named by the Government, when it's false, and you vote for them in this House. And that comes to the extreme in his Chinese tale of slowness, of saying that the Government has appointed Mr. Palmou, when you voted him in this House because you have to leave this chamber elected. [[Murmurs.]] But the most serious thing is that you know better than anyone on February 20th, Mr. President of the Board called Mr. Besteiro, and told him that he was willing to talk about profiles, for example, professionals of what you say, let's say that they are known for their commitment to the fight against corruption. And on February 20, Mr. Besteiro stood to answer – this was a Friday – the next Monday, that is, on February 23, and he follows Mr. Feijóo waiting for Mr. Besteiro's call to discuss the renewal of institutional bodies. So I would ask for a little rigor and not to be told Chinese stories. We present this because we firmly believe that human condition, not political militancy, is the condition that there is corruption. I know there are groups here who think that all of them are good, because they're left-handed and they're ugly, and they're never corrupt until they get to power and things appear, of course. And we think it's a human being's own condition, regardless of their beliefs or their ideologies, and that's why we have to act and act institutionally. I want to read what the prosecutor said, because everyone applauds the prosecutor. He literally said in the Commission: "As a good know-how of the risk behaviour map in public administrations, the Board of Auditors could, among other functions, be centralized the information necessary for the preventive management of the risks of corruption, its typification and identification of sectors or activities where this risk is most likely, and the development of type or prevention programmes adapted to our reality." That's what the prosecutor said, and that's what's going on in this law. But me, what do you want me to tell them if they're still confusing? Sanctions are for not collaborating with the Board of Auditors, not for corruption. And the official who doesn't cooperate with the Board of Auditors is what's sanctioned in this law, and not what puts his hand in the case, who goes to the courts of justice as we're checking every day.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u73	Finish it, Mr. Puy, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u74	Let's talk about the content, let's see the content. I was saying at the beginning of my intervention that in the face of corruption it can be hidden, it can be used partly...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u75	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u76	...and things can be taken seriously. Today you decided to take it partly, but now with the amendments they're going to have to be serious, and we're still opening our hand...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u77	Thank you very much, Mr. Puy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u78	...to negotiate and consent to reform the Law of the Board of Auditors. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u79	Thank you very much. Comprehensive discussion of the Bill of Creation of the Official College of Dietists-Nutritionists of Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u80	This bill has been tabled with an amendment for the return of the Joint Parliamentary Group. Mr. Alfonso Rueda Valenzuela has the floor for the introduction of the bill.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u81	President, ladies and gentlemen, good morning. I appear today before this House to present on behalf of the Government the Bill of Creation of the Official College of Dietists-Nutritionists of Galicia. A request that was transferred on his day to the Council of Galicia by the professionals themselves who were at that time grouped in the so-called Galaga Association of Dietists-Nutritionists. Law 11/2001, of professional schools in Galicia, states in its Article 11 that in the territorial sphere of Galicia the creation of professional schools must be done by law of the Galician Parliament and that when the initiative is the Council of the Union the corresponding preliminary draft law will be made the request of the professionals concerned, and after appreciation by the Government of the Union of the public interest that concurs in the creation of that college, therefore, in the request they make. And, therefore and consequently, this government began the process of drafting the preliminary draft law once it was submitted to it - as it said - the request for creation by the Galaga Association of Dietists-Nutritionists for four years, together with a motivated statement attached to this request for reasons justifying, in his opinion, the creation of the school, in which he referred to the public interest, which undoubtedly has human nutrition and diet in the prevention of diseases and in the care of people's health. The next step was to submit public information to a school creation request. This was done in DG number 249 on December 30, 2011, and it has to be said that within one month no allegations were made that at least the pre-draft process was made. There was therefore no question of what was being discussed at that time, which was the public interest character of the creation and existence of this school. The following requests were made for preceptive reports and those which, without being preceptive, were considered from the Government of the United States which were convenient for the drafting of the draft law; among others, the official schools of doctors and pharmacists in Galicia. Public interest was also recognized in a report by the Health Council, which noted its status as a health profession entitled and, therefore, regulated by Law 44/2003 on the management of health professions, and also the contribution of the functions that these professionals have developed: the protection of a constitutional right to health and, therefore, to the life and integrity of people. It must be said, because it is so, that the processing of this preliminary draft law is true that it has suffered a delay, already said that it began in 2011, but the intention was to accompany at that time its approval with the processing that it began by the Government of the State of the State of the preliminary draft law on services and professional schools, in compliance – they had to do so – of the provision set out in the fourth transitional provision of the Law 25/2009, of transposition of European directives. This preliminary draft would include the delimitation of which professions should be of compulsory consideration. With which your approval, if it had taken place, would have allowed us to also adopt in Galicia a text already adapted to the demands of the new state legislation, and this was the reason to wait at that time. But, as you know, although it is true that there have been several versions of this preliminary draft of law, the truth and truth is that on the present date the approval has not been successful and, therefore, we consider from the Government of Galicia that it would be necessary to finalize the processing of this preliminary draft of law and, therefore, to create the College of Dietists-Nutritionists; that is, these professionals had to wait no longer and could have their school created. So this is the object of debate, since we understand that there were sufficient reasons – as I said – for Galician dietists-nutritionists to have since a professional school. It should be noted, therefore, firstly, that Galicia today has official schools in most of the health professions that are recognized in the law of 2003 to which I referred, in Law 44, concerning the management of health professions. To also say that if we do a small sweep by the rest of the autonomous communities we find that today there are already ten schools of dietists-nutritionists in autonomous communities, Navarre, Balearics, Aragon, Castile-A Mancha, Valencia, Basque Country, Andalusia, Catalonia, Murcia and Castile-Leon. So it's not a new figure that doesn't exist in many autonomous communities anymore. And it should also be pointed out that in this legislation, as you know, the General Courts approved Law 19/2014, of the creation of the General Council of Professional Colleges, as a representative corporation in the state sphere and with coordinating functions of all professional schools of dietists-nutritionists that exist in the national territory. I also want to say that it was adopted in Congress by all parliamentary groups. Therefore, it is clear that there is a clear tendency, a desire for collegiation, or to allow the collection of these professionals, understanding that it was sufficiently justified and therefore recognized the importance of proper nutrition, the importance of regular physical activity, to know and evaluate by present societies the connection between this, and to know and evaluate that good eating habits substantially improve people's quality of life and are determinants in the prevention of many pathologies. So we value positively, and that's why the creation of professional schools of these professionals of diet and nutrition, so that they can be organized, so that they can promote performances, so that they can be self-regulating and so they can disseminate and improve their professional activities and knowledge. It's not, of course, a purely corporate matter, but undoubtedly, and that's what justifies the approval of the project by the Government of the Union, will result in the general interest of citizens and citizens in their health and therefore in their well-being. So we present a simple text in its structure, which consists of an exhibition of motives, in which we recognize the general interest in the need to create this school, four articles, two transitional provisions and a last disposition. The object is – as I have already said – the creation of the Official College of Dietists-Nutritionists of Galicia, which will have scope for action in the territory of our autonomous community and which will group professionals in possession of official university titles in Nutrition and Dietetics, or titles from other countries that are approved. The law also states that the collection will be compulsory as long as it establishes a state law. It could not be otherwise, ladies and gentlemen, and this wording is adopted in accordance with the criteria of the Legal Counsel and how it can be verified in the draft law file and in accordance with the state laws adopted in the matter. As you know, in 2009 the Central Government has driven the amendment of article 3.2 of the Basic Law on Professional Schools to establish, and so it has been established literally, that it will be essential for the professions to be incorporated into the corresponding professional school when it so establishes a state law; that is, only a state law according to this law of the year 2009 can establish that the college of any profession is mandatory. Furthermore, this decision established in this drafting of the law of the year 2009 was referred to by the Constitutional Court, which in recent years has already annulled several precepts of autonomous laws that intended to enter into compulsory or not the collection of various professions. Therefore, we understand, according to a legal criterion that today is no longer present, no longer allows discussion after constitutional proceedings, which must be the future state school law to which I have to decide whether the collection of professionals who are now in charge of dietists and nutritionists should be mandatory or not, and what the law of Greece does is to establish that possibility if - I insist - the state law would finally agree. And in the meantime, this collection, as it couldn't be otherwise, will have a voluntary character. We therefore understand that the prejudice to free competition is going to be minimal, maximum, when the German law, which has adapted to autonomous legislation the European Services Directive, has already proposed measures such as the removal of collective barriers to the movement of professionals between communities, also the prohibition of setting guidelines on prices among schools, also the prohibition on the existence of registration quotas that exceed the administrative costs involved in processing these registrations. Therefore, the creation of this school does not come now, with this voluntary and compulsory nature if it was decided in the future, in no case to breach competition law. And finally, ladies and gentlemen, the first and second transitional provisions that they deal with are the constitution and powers of the provisional Management Commission, which must be set up for the start of the school, the constituent assembly and the approval of the statutes. And the project ends by establishing that the law will enter into force at the 20th day of its publication in the DOG, once, if so, it is approved by this Parliament. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, on my part and on behalf of the German Government, I simply wish to express the wish that the text of this law will finally receive Parliament's approval with the greatest, as always, possible consensus, as it has counted with the unanimity of the autonomous parliaments that have adopted laws practically equivalent to what we bring here today, and that once it is in force it will serve to respond to needs, to the demands of some professionals who have long claimed the creation of this school, who develop a very important function for public health and therefore deserve and need to be collected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u82	The defence of the amendment to the whole, you have the floor by the Joint Parliamentary Groupwoman Consuelo Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u83	Thank you, President. Well, we have tabled from the Joint Group a whole amendment to this bill and I will now explain the reasons for this amendment. By Organic Law 16/1995, on the transfer of competences from the Autonomous Community of Galicia, 5 were transferred to its Article 5 legislative development powers and executed within the framework of the State's basic legislation on public law corporations representing economic and professional interests. Article 11 of Law 11/2001 on professional schools in Galicia states that, within the territorial area of the Autonomous Community of Galicia, the creation of professional schools will be done by law of the Greek Parliament". So today we have the responsibility to approve or not the creation of a new professional school, which, in my view and beyond other considerations, does not respond to any public interest. Law 11/2001 of 18 December 2001 of the Galician Professional Colleges provides in Article 3 that professionals bound by the Public Administration will not need to be collected; although they will be compulsory for the exercise of private activity. It is clear, therefore, that the existence or not of professional schools, in general, does not affect anything about the quality of the provision of professional services that they represent or is such their public interest, but their collection would also be compulsory within the administration itself. Rather they represent corporate associations that have as their sole or most important purpose to defend the corporate interests of their professionals. And at this end there's nothing of public interest. Thus, in Article 7, the exercise of powers and collaboration with the Administration, includes: "The Autonomous Community of Galicia may entrust to the professional schools, through the corresponding convention, the carrying out of activities of a material, technical or service nature of its own competence, in accordance with the terms laid down in Law 30/1992, of a legal regime of public administrations and of the common administrative procedure". In this sense, the ESC, in its speech of 9 October 2000 on the preliminary draft law of the schools of professionals of the Autonomous Community of Galicia, recommended: "The ESC expresses its reservation on the need for entities other than associations or trade unions representing professional interests which are constituted as corporations of public law to defend the interests of a given profession and to those who are assigned purposes of public interest that could be exercised by the administration." I'd say, they should be exercised by the administration. Therefore, it is clear that they are entities representing professional interests and that if at any time they have a public interest, it is because the administration itself entrusts them with powers that should take over the administration itself. In Article 9 of the law it speaks of the functions, which are essentially corporate, without any public interest, such as exercising in its field the representation and defence of the profession; exercising disciplinary power over professionals who are collected in accordance with the terms laid down in this law and in its own statutes; exercising legal actions and taking the necessary measures to avoid professional intrusion and unfair competition; establishing standards of fees, which will have an orientation character – here I understand that there is a power which violates the right to collective free bargaining between trade unions and employers, establishing fees that should not correspond to any type of school, much less when we speak of a collection that will not be required, i.e., the school that counts with part of the professions will decide on behalf of all the many professions of things and, among others, because their standards – and how many other functions impact on the professional interests of the collegiate – not of the graduates, only on their colegescipates and on their purposes. So, we see that the creation of a school, in particular, of this school, is going to lead to the defense essentially of the professional interests of the people in school, not of all the professionals, and that their public interest in any case will depend on the powers that the administration itself grants it or does not grant it. As Mr. Rueda has already said, in article 11 it is said that "When the exercise of the legislative initiative is of the Council of Galicia, the corresponding draft bill of creation will be made the request of interested professionals and after the Government's appreciation of competing public interest in the creation of the school." As much as I read all the reports I didn't understand what the public interest is, I didn't understand it, I didn't catch it. He also says, "Only a new professional college can be created for those professions that require to be in possession of an official academic title, and also for those professional activities in which his or her exercise is conditional upon the possession of an official title that believes in and legally qualified for his or her exercise." According to this article we could set up schools in virtually any qualified profession, because all professions and all people who want to pursue a profession that requires a qualification if they are asked to participate in the work. But also the first recommendation made by the Competition Council in its report on the preliminary draft says: "It is recommended to the Council of Galicia that the draft law on the creation of the Professional College of Dietists-Nutritionists of Galicia should not be approved for the purpose of establishing an entry barrier to the exercise of the professional activity of dietitian-nutritionist, which is not the one provided for the achievement of the legitimate public purpose of protecting health." It's true, if not all health professions should be collected and, however, multiple functions or multiple health titrations are not collected. Based on its recommendation, the Competition Council, among others, on the following reasonings: it suggests that for users there are two professional categories: college professionals and non-collective professionals; the regulation of a profession does not imply the creation of a professional school, it does not say so anywhere; the recognition of a profession such as health does not imply the creation of a professional school, since, as I said, a multitude of health professions do not have a college, for example: health technicians, laboratory technicians, nuclear medicine, rays, pathological anatomy... and others only have it in some autonomous communities. But if we talk about the impact on public health, the importance of food on public health, we can also talk about the need to collect graduates in Physical Education, since physical activity is fundamental to people's health. Turning him around, we'd all end up in one school before or after. Rather, it seems that in the creation of professional schools, the political interest in them weighs more than the public interest in them. Nor does the ESC observe public interest and shows its concern at the proliferation of professional schools. In addition, if it was really of general public interest, to ensure a proper health benefit, its collection would be compulsory and would be compulsory throughout the state. It doesn't make any sense to recognize a profession and an activity as of general public interest and after the rule who wants it and who doesn't want it. It therefore clearly distorts your public interest. To conclude, I fully agree with the concern and reservation expressed by the ESC in its ruling of 9 October 2000 on the preliminary draft law of professional schools in relation to the need not to exist of entities other than trade unions and associations for the defence of professional interests. All professionals and professionals can, and do so, associate in professional groupings, which does not imply the creation of a school. And if an organization has the capacity and legitimacy to defend the interests of workers, whether they are entitled or not, it's the unions. We believe that it distorts and, of course, goes on the People's Party line, and that this is the public interest that the People's Party sees it, that it is to further weaken the roles of unions and strengthen the functions of professional schools and corporate interests, because, in addition, schools usually represent personal titles, with which the untitled staff, the less educated people, the less qualified workers will always be in lower conditions, and they cover their titles in professional schools. We therefore defend from here the role of trade unions in the representation of professionals, whether they are entitled or not. So, on the basis of the reasoned and consistent opposition to the recommendations of the Galician Competition Council and the ESC, I ask the Galician Parliament not to support this Proposal for a Law on the Creation of the Professional College of Dietists-Nutritionists of Galicia as it constitutes a barrier to the exercise of the professional activity of dietitian-nutritionist who is not proportionate to the achievement of the legitimate public purpose of protecting the health it says to pursue. And because it constitutes itself a barrier to union activity, often supplicating the role that they have in their duty to negotiate working conditions between employers and workers. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u84	Thank you very much. Non-amendant groups? [[Pause.]] For the Galician Nationalist Block, you have the floor to Mrs. Prado Colors.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u85	Good morning. In fact, the creation and operation of professional schools is regulated in Galicia by a law of its own, the Italian law, the Law 11/2001, which regulates the basic principles and rules to which its organization and its competence must be adjusted by public law corporations representing professional interests. This law establishes three fundamental requirements when creating a new professional school. The first is that, although the initiative begins with the collective of professionals concerned – as is the case with us today, with the collective of dietists and nutritionists – creation must be done by law of this Parliament. And it states that it must be the legislative power of this Parliament which determines which professions are outside the general principle of freedom. Because when a professional school is created, it is limiting that general principle of freedom; in particular, in this case, the exercise of the free profession by establishing a regulatory framework in which it must develop. The second requirement is that it is a profession or professional activity conditioned by the possession of an official title, which also fulfils in this case the creation of this school, since we are talking about existing qualifications. In Galicia there have been for several years – in particular, four years – own studies of human nutrition and diet given at the Faculty of Sciences of the University of Compostela, on the campus of Lugo, from that in 2014 – last year – the first promotion of dietists and nutritionists trained in Galicia. We believe in the BNG that these two requirements are met unequivocally. The point is that it is up to this Parliament to legislate, to create or not the creation law of the College of Dietists and Nutritionists. In this case the initiative comes from the German Government, and it must be on the part of the affected collective, which in this case was the Association of Dietists-Nutritionists itself, created almost exclusively from its inception to achieve this end, the creation of the professional college. But as for the third requirement, which is that it responds to the public interest, that question we believe is in doubt, that there are more than reasonable doubts that this public interest is justified. I have explained to the honourable Member that he is proposing a whole series of amendments, and I am going to repeat them. He has been manifested both by the Galician Competition Council and the ESC, the Economic and Social Council, his opposition to the creation of this Professional College of Dietists-Nutritionists. The Galician Council of Competition, in particular, recommends to the board of directors that it not approve at that time the draft law on the creation of professional college. The board of directors is clear that you did not accept this recommendation and followed the process forward, so we're here on this procedure. And the Competition Council estimates that the creation of the College of Dietists-Nutritionists is not proportional to the objective of protecting people's health. And he also understands that the creation of this Official College of Dietists-Nutritionists here in Galicia is not justified, since it exists in other autonomous communities but not in the state domain. Nor does it believe that this school has its equivalent in other regulated health professions. The ESC also makes a negative assessment, at that time, of the preliminary draft law, and in particular it issues a report in which it reaffirms itself in what it has done for the German Law to create professional schools, as it expresses its reservations about the need for entities other than associations or unions. It considers that these entities preserve the professional interest of partners. And he also considers that no regulations are laid down in the regulations where the professions collected are required to be incorporated into the corresponding professional school. And the ESC also considers that, in defence of the free exercise of the profession, in compliance with the defence of competition, compulsory collection must be abolished. It also states that there is insufficient justification for the motivation of general interest and shows concern for the proliferation of professional schools. At the BNG we also express our concern that the creation of professional schools is being regulated according to the demand for part, when there is an application, and that it is not the result of a planning of professions and titles that should be able to be regulated through the creation of a professional school. We believe that the creation of new professional schools must respond to a thought-provoking design on which the Galician corporate administration must be, and not only be determined by the valuation of public interest that professionals do, that they have to prove it. And that's why we don't present a amendment to this whole bill, because, since there is no such regulation that establishes which professions are required to incorporate into the corresponding school to exercise the profession, because they perform functions that have to do with the purpose of public interest, they are leaving precisely the initiative of the interested groups. In this case, the Association of Dietists and Nutritionists has followed the procedure to get here, until this Parliament is debating the appropriateness of creating the school. We believe that, since you leave that door open that you can urge the creation of the school, so we will not oppose the creation of the school. But we have partial amendments, if today no consideration is given to the amendment to the whole tabled, partial amendments that we have tabled and which are in the direction that the collection is not compulsory, and that it is not subject to state legislation. We are talking about a law which falls within the competence of Galicia, which is the area of competence set out in the Statute for the Self-Government of Galicia, the area of competence referred to in the decree of transfers to Galicia, with which it must be clear that Galicia is responsible for this regulation. That is why we tabled amendments to that effect. The justification you just made here by the vice president of the board could be worth leaving it at the dawn of state legislation or it could be worth reaffirming that it's a Galician competition. At the BNG we believe it's a Galician competition and that we must always fight for it to be a Galician competition, and it must be clear. That's why the partial amendment we tabled, I insist, is the amendment which makes it clear that collegiation cannot be in any mandatory case, and the issue of titration... because we are in a process with everything that represents the Bologna Plan, in a process where titrations are very changing, and then it must be clear to what titrations this college is subject to. And there's also a question that seems fundamental to us, as is the use of the Greek language in a Greek professional school that has its scope in our country, in Galicia. That is why, I insist, we will not oppose the creation of this professional school, but we believe that, if today we do not accept the whole amendment, in the processing and debate in the presentation, we hope that we will take into account the amendments that we will then present.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u86	Parliamentary Group of the Left Galician Alternative. Her word is Eva Solla Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u87	Thank you, President. AGE did not present amendments to the whole despite the fact that professional schools are neither a favourite model in the defence of profession rights. The reality is that we understand better that there is a real need for debate on the regulation of professional schools themselves, their powers and their functioning. Since the opacity of many professional schools has been shown on many occasions, even when these institutions – some – have been denounced in cases of corruption, unfortunately. As happened, for example, to the president of the General Council of Nursing Colleges, related also to that plot of Gürtel. That is, it is necessary to define the real functions and audit and control the operation to avoid opacity and possibility of illegal activities around professional schools. This, of course, does not exempt the law from actually allowing the creation of other professional schools of the different health professions. So we are not going to vote against the processing also because of the fact that it has already been commented here, that it has been requested by the Association of Dietists and Nutritionists, even though – as I say already – the model of professional schools is not in the AGE principles as a defense of the rights of professionals and professionals, which we understand most of them compete with class unions. It must be warned, however, that it is also necessary to question the necessity of this legislation before other matters are more important even for the profession itself. And that, as already stated here, does not clearly obey any need for the health of the population but rather the claim made by these professionals and these professionals. In other words, if a professional school is regulated, it doesn't affect the health improvement of the population, nor is it a school of a health profession. In any case, it would involve improvements or claims to the profession itself, to be like this; but not to health. Our group, on the other hand, has, of course, tabled partial amendments to this text; and, above all, related to a subject which we understand will be the centrality of the debate in the presentation. We are talking precisely about compulsory collection. Since, although we do not find a need for this legislation, we will not interfere with its entry processing, we are totally against that compulsory collection. One thing is the possibility of the existence of this school and another very different thing is that you intend to force dieters and dieters to collect in order to exercise their profession; so imposed, as unfortunately happens in other professions with already regulated schools. We understand that that is where the central debate is going to be in the presentation, that already – as was said here – the Galician Council of Competition itself and the Advisory Council warn of the aggravation of this measure, and they ask that, in the event that it is finally passed, this obligation be removed. We warn that, of course, if we adopt this tax, we will finally vote against it. The German Government, it seems, has other things to do for dieters and dieters. I have to remember the scarce presence of these and these professionals in this branch in the Galego Health Service, which clearly clashs with this defense precisely of the profession that the Government itself does in the exhibition of reasons and with which it argues the creation of this professional school. It seems to be a greater interest that this government manifests in the implementation of its own college or school than the defense or impulse of its own profession itself. When, in addition, there are very few public professionals and the services we currently have in many cases are privatized in our hospitals. Recently we visited – I visited with my companion Ramón Vázquez – the premises of Lucus Augusti, with a modern kitchen, very mechanized and public, which, by the way, makes it impossible to support any argument that justifies the privatization of other kitchen services in other hospitals of the Galician Health Service. Because if there's a kitchen that's public and works perfectly, it disables, precisely, that speech from the People's Party. And yet the diet service, that is, the staff that makes those proper diets for the different pathologies that are inside that public hospital is a service that is privatized, private professionals who work in that service. I mean, the Health Council has privatized this health service, and that is a much more important debate than the creation of a professional school. It seems that they are more in a hurry to approve compulsory college or because this school is constituted than because of the importance of the existence of public professionals within the Galician Health Service of this profession, which really, the truth, is greatly diminished. So we understand that if this amendment of the Joint Group goes ahead and does not prosper, we will not vote against it. But we believe that this debate remains at the expense of the motion, that we will not vote in favour later unless this obligation is changed in the collection. And we understand that the real obligation of the Galician board to the profession is to hire public staff in the Galician Health Service and that reversal of those private services in our hospitals. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u88	Thank you. Socialist Parliamentary Group. You have the word to Mrs. Acuña do Campo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u89	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies; good morning, Counselor. I also want to take this opportunity to greet the professionals and the professionals of diet, diet and nutrition, who are sure to follow this debate from somewhere. Dietists-nutritionists are self-defined as those diet and nutrition experts who develop activities designed to achieve adequate food for physiological or pathological needs, either for a person or for a group of people, taking into account the principles of prevention and public health. It is precisely, ladies and gentlemen, these professionals, dietists and nutritionists, who today demand our support for the creation of the Official College of Dietists-Nutritionists of Galicia through this law that they proposed to the Government of Unity in their day. From the Socialist Parliamentary Group we want to make it very clear that we have no doubt about the usefulness of professionals who, as experts in nutrition, nutrition and diet, have the ability to intervene in people's lives, both in health and in disease. No doubt, ladies and gentlemen, about the usefulness of the dietary council, or about the needs of research and teaching in this matter. There is no doubt that they also intervene through government agencies in public health, as well as in food companies and in collective and individual restoration. But what we have doubts about, ladies and gentlemen, in the Socialist Parliamentary Group, is about the obligation of professional schools, because in practice they are indeed a barrier to those professionals who finish their training and who, even without having real chances of entering the labour market, if they are forced to cope with paying, rates, collegiate quotas, in some very high cases; without forgetting that, unfortunately, and also speaking frankly, some of the professional schools are not working well, no. They lost their status as an organization born to support, to inform, to teach, to support the colleges and colleges and to become a chiringuit more to the service of the people who direct it. Instead of thinking about the interests of the people in college, they only think about what is interesting to the person or persons who preside over them, and even the government who puts them to their service. But, said this, we're going to look at the bill we're dealing with today. Without a doubt, the first one to draw attention is the time elapsed between which it was approved by the Board of Trustees, in 2012, and the entry into this House, in 2015. It's true that reports were requested from different bodies, but it's also true that these were provided at that time. Besides, I don't know why we had to wait three years. Because the truth is that the text that was presented in 2015 is very similar to the one proposed to the Government by that collective as early as 2012. We don't want to think that Mr. Feijóo had done with the request of nutritionists and dietists the same thing he does with almost everything: to wait for the election year. He did so with the health infrastructure, leaving – yes, it seems extremely serious – I will not tire of repeating it – in the drawer the money that Europe gave us to make these infrastructures, years and years, without taking into account, first, the health needs that there was; second, the economic paralysis that caused the crisis; and without taking into account the needs of the unemployed and the stops in this country. He took it to his, and in the drawer until he arrived in 2015, election year; when then he pulled it out and started the infrastructures late, badly and never. Although in this case it may also have influenced, as the vice president of the board also acknowledged, the mess, the tremendous mess that mounted the government of the state with the preliminary draft law of professional schools. So messed up, ladies and gentlemen, that, as with many other things, eventually became paralyzed. And, of course, between trouble and trouble, there was a Constitutional Court ruling in 2013 that supports the collection, and also mandatory, for all health professionals, they exercise in public or in private. Something that, of course, we socialists respect, but we don't share. But what is most appealing to us is not delay, but that the People's Party and the People's Government will support this law based on the fact that it is a health profession. What are we left with, gentlemen? What are we left with? Is nutrition and diet a health profession? Then, how do you understand that Mr. Feijóo is committed to privatizing all the food in public hospitals, he, the same president who assured that he would never privatize the white robes, that in one would privatize anything related to health care? Ladies and gentlemen, the Socialist Parliamentary Group will support the consideration of this bill by voting against the amendment proposed by the Joint Group. The fundamental reason we have for this is that it is the professionals themselves who make this request. Professionals who work daily to improve our health through food and who believe that school creation can improve their work. They claim that academically they are a collective with the necessary training and qualification. By the way, it must be pointed out in this line that the College of Doctors of Ourense intended to include senior technical persons in diet, but this contribution was rejected by the Government. They also argue that the Galician community has the competence to create the Greek professional school of dietists and nutritionists – this school, in fact, has been reflected by the vice president too, already exists in five other autonomous communities – and that it is also a collective that is already united under a umbrella, organized under a umbrella, which is the Galician Association of Dietists and Nutritionists, and that the school would allow them to go a little farther. And they also argue that it will be very useful for them to create the school to fight intrusion, although this is not so clear, ladies and gentlemen, because there are professions, such as physiotherapy or even medicine, which, in spite of the burning official schools, are suffering from intrusion. Of course, school doesn't interfere, but it can't cut down on intrusion or any other problem. Dietists and nutritionists also base their claim on the fact that, when it comes to a health profession, it is subject to the Health Professional Management Act, which includes not only the necessary academic training and the skills and attitudes peculiar to health care, but also that people engaged in this activity are organized in officially known professional schools. This law also considers health professions, people performing health professions, such as those licensed in medicine, pharmacy, nursing, dentistry, physiotherapy, physiology, optics and optometries, dental prosthetics and hygienists, logopeds, nutrition and diet and occupational therapy. However, and as the Competition Council also collects in its report of allegations, the collection contains quite differently in one and another health profession. Some have a state school, others have an autonomic school, others have state and autonomic school, others have provincial schools. For example, medicine has a General Council of Medical Colleges in Spain, and then official schools of provincial doctors. Physiotherapy, physiology and speech therapy have two schools, one state and the other autonomics. The hygienists and dental hygienists don't have state school and they do have a professional school of Greek dental hygienists. And nutrition and diet does not have state school in Spain either. So, if this law were passed, they would only have – as in the case of dental hygienists – an autonomic school. But I wonder what will happen now to occupational therapists. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, they are the only ones on that list of health professions that would be excluded, that would be left without school. It's not easy to understand why some healthcare professions have up to two schools and others, however, they don't have any. Nor is it easy to understand how 50% of the nutrition and diet professionals work in hospitals in Europe, and here Mr Feijóo prefers such questionable catering and flame. The Socialist Parliamentary Group will reject, as we have already said, the amendment of the Joint Group. But, yes, urging that this next school of nutritionists and dietists in Galicia never forgets that it was born to improve the quality of this benefit, and that it cannot be a barrier to those people who, for whatever reason, cannot assume the cost of the rates of compulsory collection. For now, nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u90	Thank you, Mrs. Acuña. People's Parliamentary Group of Galicia. You have the word of Mr. Aurelio Núñez Centeno.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u91	Thank you, President. Good morning, gentlemen. Good morning, Vice President. We want to start, from the People's Party, by congratulating the Union on the drafting of this bill that the professionals claimed. We consider it unjustifiable to deny the Greek professionals of diet and nutrition the organizational structure that they have already recognized in ten other autonomous communities, a professional school that serves to defend the interests of professional people, but also users; professional people recognizing their training and fighting intrusion; and users, by the obvious relationship of the work of these and these professionals with the care of health. You know the importance of obesity and metabolic syndrome at the origin of cardiovascular diseases, the main cause of death and disability in the world. But there is even a proven relationship with oncological diseases, which is being confirmed every day more with clinical studies. We want to remember the support they have always had from the People's Group all the initiatives aimed at caring for the aspects of health related to diet and nutrition, human nutrition, as basic elements for proper nutrition. In fact, this Germola Plan, against childhood obesity, of what Mr. Vice-President said, was based on a non-law proposal presented by our group, which has now been approved by us for two years now, in which the Government was urged to prevent this pathology and promote healthy eating habits. If you want to see or know what we eat from the Galicians and the Greeks, I invite you to go through any supermarket or mall and see what's going on in the cars and what's seen in the sales boxes. I believe that today, with this legislative initiative, based on a credible public interest – I repeat, a credible public interest, is a regulated health profession, is directed to citizenship as a whole and is directed to the improvement of health, I believe that public interest is clear – we believe that we contribute to strengthening the prestige of the professionalism of the group of dietists-nutritionists through the creation of their official school. We all know of the proliferation of food information lacks professional rigour, and carried out by unaccredited people. And in this sense, we understand that dieters and nutritionists who ask for the approval of this project and the consequent creation of their school come to him with an opportunity to believe and assure their patients of their competence, against the propagandists of dangerous miracle diets. And that reason seems enough to us to justify the public interest in creating this school. As far as the amendment to the whole of the Joint Group is concerned, I have to express my surprise; first, by its presentation and, second, by the content of the amendment itself. I believed that in this bill, to which I saw no harm and which was limited to meeting a demand from professionals, if I would break that automatic reaction of presenting amendments to the whole as much legislative text as our government presents. I wanted to remind you that in the Bipartite legislature, in which it was said that the opposition was thrown to the mountain and that it had a destructive attitude, the People's Group allowed to process without amendment all twenty laws presented by that government. In a similar law passed in that legislation, the Law on the Creation of the School of Dental Hygienists, the People's Party only introduced two partial amendments, one amendment and another addition, and the law was unanimously approved. Today, those who then claimed from the opposition the dialogative attitude presented amends to the whole of 25 of the 26 laws that brought together the Union, except the File Law. I thought this might be another exception, but it's not. It seems that Mrs. Martínez thinks everything that comes from the Board is going to be all the way. But, well, at least on this occasion, the rest of the groups did not support it. But what is really unusual in the amendment to the whole formulated by Mrs Martínez is the content of it. We read that the honourable Member, who has come to call us in the previous full "ultraneoliberals", suddenly advances us on the right; it turns Mrs Martínez – I suppose in "hypermegaultraneoliberal" by accusing this government of presenting a bill which, she herself says, implies creating barriers to market entry. [[Laughter]] I have to say that I never thought I'd see myself in a debate where you had accused us of being less liberal, frankly making me difficult. [[Applause]] If we attach this to the question of the other day to Mrs. Díaz's president, expressing concern about her debt, and considering that the only community that has less debt than Galicia is the Madrid Community, gives the feeling that the main political referent on the part of the opposition will be Mrs. Esperanza Aguirre, who also has... [[Murmurs.]] Barely jokes, or jokes aside, the bill does not involve any of the free competition of dietists-nutritionists, nor does it even establish the compulsoryity of the collection in any case. As I imagine your lordships will know, the basic legislation and jurisprudence of the Constitutional Court make it clear that it is the state's responsibility and not the autonomous communities' competence to decide the obligations of collegiation. So this project, to avoid further problems, is remitted to what state law can say, nothing more. He's got no more trick and no more trick. The collection in the project is voluntary, unless a state law determines otherwise. And it has already been mentioned here that there was a law of professional services and schools which is paralysed, and that was the reason, Mrs. Acuña, of the delay of the law, that of accompanying the times to avoid having to modify it afterwards. That law came to be claimed, the Law of Professional Services, recently again by the Troika. That is to say, the European Commission, the International Monetary Fund and the European Central Bank have again demanded the Spanish Government to bring forward that law and reduce compulsory collections. In fact, the pre-project that the Ministry was managing went with dietists-nutritionists with voluntary collections. As far as I am concerned, I shall inform the Government of the State that Mrs Martínez has joined a claim from the Troika. And, in fact, I encourage the Government, whom you have called "Troika puppet," to heed that recommendation of the Troika not met – it is encouraging the Government. I'm sure Mr. Junker, Mrs. Lagarde and Mr. Draghi will be delighted to receive it between them. [[Applause]] In fact, this whole change of name from "Troika" to "institutions" is thought to be given by the possibility that Mrs. Martínez would join that group. We don't know if it's called "Quatroika"... that would be the name. Finally, I deeply regret the opposition to the bill, which the president said, and that we have wasted our time here debating a whole amendment to a bill that is very simple. [[Laughter]] When she talks about the access limit by academic titration, she says, "you can't limit access," she says, "to a professional activity based on academic titration, and saying that's an absolute lack of knowledge of health legislation." The profession is regulated in a law, which states in Article 4.2: "The exercise of a health profession requires the possession of the corresponding official title that expressly enables it." Article 2 and 7.2(g) refers in particular to dietists-nutritionists as part of this profession. Subsequently, in an agreement by the Council of Ministers, the conditions that should comply with the curriculum of the teaching of degrees have been laid down. Anyway, Mrs. Prado, we don't see bad that the text of the law contains an express reference to the designation of these new degrees. And as we have seen that you have tabled an amendment to the articulate in that sense, we will announce to you in advance at the presentation meeting that we are going to support that amendment. With regard to negative reports, of what we're talking about here too, in any case they read in an interest. The one of the Galician Competition Council should be emphasized that it is a report issued prior to the state creation, and, Mrs Acuña, by unanimity of the Council of Colleges of Dietists and Nutritionists at the state level. It's approved by a Congress commission, said the vice president. In fact, since that report was issued, four other autonomous communities have approved schools of dietists and nutritionists. So you're talking about discrimination between those who are in school and those who are not in school in the report. Now really, what there is is discrimination between the Greek professionals who can't collect and the professionals from ten autonomous communities who can do so. In the case of the Economic and Social Council, you mutilate the sentence. Indeed, that council shows its concern about the proliferation of professional but compulsory colleges, and in this project it is not the case. Surely the Galician Nationalist Block Group maintains its coherence, because you did not vote in Congress for the compulsory collection established by state law for these professionals, and then I understand that you want to make clear or record your position favourable to voluntary college. However, curiously, you, when you were in the two-party government, passed seven school creation laws, and the seven set up compulsory college. And they were logos, dental hygienists, computer engineers and even jewelers, who had to have compulsory college. Speaking of the AGE Group, we've already told you, Mrs Solla, that the law keeps the compulsory collection, unless a state law imposes it, and there's a Constitutional Court ruling. I think you should agree with your colleagues, because they presented in the United Left, in the process of the General Council of Official Colleges of Dietists-Nutritionists – Mr. Callars in Congress and Mr. Jesus Churches in the Senate – amendments designed to introduce in that law the compulsory collection surprisingly for dietists and nutritionists throughout the state. The People's Party rejected him. Well, in the Courts of Castile-Leon Mr. González Suárez supported a completely superposable law to which we present today. It's really a little hard to get along with you sometimes, and I'm just Left One. Maybe we'll have to see what happens when we sail between tides. Maybe it's a lot more complicated. But anyway, the most incoherent position of all, of course, is that of the Socialist Group. The Socialist Group in 2007 and 2008 governs in Balearics, Aragon and Castile-A Mancha and approves three laws for creating schools of diet-nutritionists requiring compulsory collection. That must be asymmetric federalism. In 2009 the Government of Mr Zapatero, Mr Zapatero!, passed a law implementing the European Services Directive which he took advantage of to amend the Law on Professional Schools and withdrawing the autonomous communities from competence to decide whether or not they are required to do so. In 2014, the Socialist Group in Congress and Senate voted in favour of the amendment of the United Left, of which we were talking earlier, to the Bill of Creation of the General Council of Official Colleges of Dietists-Nutritionists, to establish at the state level the compulsory collection. And now, in 2015, he seeks to violate the law here in the Galician Parliament that you yourself have passed, to establish in an autonomous law the voluntary character of a college of a profession for which you yourself have waged by compulsory college in Congress and the Senate. I'm really waiting for them to explain how this can be justified. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] We reject, to end, as it could not be otherwise, the amendment to the entire Joint Group. We really trust to improve this project among all the groups in the presentation work, to achieve, as happened with the laws of professional schools of 2006, with all the laws of professional schools of the year 2006, their unanimous approval. Nothing else and thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u92	Thank you very much, Mr. Núñez Centeno. Replica round of the amending parliamentary group, the Joint Group. You have the floor to Mrs. Martínez García.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u93	What fun! We're having a good time, Mr. Centeno! This is a joke and we came here making jokes about the Troika... I'm not here to bring you the opposite because the government is now. I'm personally opposed to the creation of professional schools, because I think they use roles that correspond to the administration and the unions. That's my political position, it's my political position, and it has nothing to do with neoliberalism. It has a lot to do with the role of the unions, which you are striving to put an end to them. And what brings me to my attention is the position of the opposition, which allows them to continue to create professional colleges that usurp the jobs and functions that legally correspond to the unions, and that simply create corporate barriers that then are, and within health care, one of the biggest labor problems in the health world. So I'm very sorry that the opposition, on the basis of which the professionals are interested, gives you forward. The responsibility for me is not to be well with the professionals who demand the creation of the school, but to be responsible for what the law itself says. And the law itself says that there must be evidence of competing public interest in the creation of the school, which is not proven. And it's not proven because I say so. No, it's proven because, for example, the Health Council says: "General interest is manifested in the relationship between food, health and disease prevention." If there's anything that says less... practically impossible. Because as the relationship between food, health and disease prevention, we can say the relationship between sport, health and disease prevention, the relationship between health education and disease prevention... and we collide around the world. So, there isn't. There's an excuse, because you have an interest in creating schools that usurp the roles of the unions and remove the chestnuts from the fire in those functions and competencies that the Administration does not want to assume and that it will give to the schools. But in addition, we also have the report of the Competition Council, which speaks of hypothetical public interests and which is tearing them apart one by one. In the existence of academic qualifications, the Competition Council says that whether or not the existence of a certain academic qualification is independent of the creation of a professional school. About the reserved character of the profession, he also answers. And he says, "The regulation of a profession by the State Government doesn't justify the creation of a professional school." On the recognition of dietists and nutritionists as health professionals, he says: "The inclusion of dietists and nutritionists in the above-mentioned legal text has no consequence of the hypothetical creation of a professional school." Health linkage. He says, "We estimate that the creation of a school of dietists and nutritionists is not proportional to the goal of protecting people's health. The recognition of health as public interest does not mean that any public legislation is justified." I mean, there's no justification, the Competition Council disassembled one for all the reasons they gave to demonstrate the public interest in the creation of this school. So does the ESC, who says: "The ESC considers that there is no justification for the motivation of general interest preponderant to the creation of the school, taking into account the following reasons: whether or not there is a certain academic qualification" – it has been demonstrated, does not influence anything to create a school or not –. "It is not an enabling title for the creation of a professional school as to the extent that recognition for this law is performed for the sole purpose of this without prejudice to the provisions of the rules of collection. The regulation of a health profession doesn't mean the creation of a school. The regulation of professional titrations dedicated to the activity of dietists and nutritionists does not guarantee any public interest. So, if there is, of course, a political reason for all this to create this school, but there are also political reasons to oppose the reason for this school. And I still hold my opposition to the creation of a new professional school and regret the positioning of this House. It doesn't look good on the people who propose it and don't really assume what the law says, which is to demonstrate the public interest of this project. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u94	Thank you very much, Mrs. Martínez. Voting of legislative texts
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u95	We shall then proceed to the vote on the legislative texts. We shut the doors. We started with Ditame, drawn up by Commission 1st, Institutional, General Administration, Justice and Home Affairs, of the Galician Public Employment Bill. Before the vote on the amendments, I was allowed to come up with three transactions, which I am going to read out and which will be the first ones that, if you think so, we will vote. First of all, the transaction to article 98 with amendment 84 of the Socialist Group in the following words: "Add to the first line, after "...family...", "...of the first degree of consanguinity." We voted for this transaction. Voting of the text dealt with in Article 98, with amendment 84 of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, of Ditame, drawn up by Commission 1st, Institutional, General Administration, Justice and Interior, of the draft law on public employment of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 66; votes against, 2; abstentions, 7. The voting is positive. This transaction is therefore approved.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u96	We then vote on the transaction in Article 130a with Amendment 208 from the Joint Parliamentary Group, which adds the partners in fact. Voting of the text dealt with in Article 130a, with Amendment 208 to the G.P. Joint Ditam, drawn up by Commission 1st, Institutional, General Administration, Justice and Home Affairs, of the Galician Public Employment Bill. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 75. The voting is positive. This transaction is therefore approved unanimously.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u97	And we voted on the third transaction, which is the first line in the last quarter of the Socialist Group's amendment 181, as follows: "1. This law will enter into force at the 20th day of its publication in the Official Journal of Galicia." Text vote on the last fourth layout, with amendment 181 to the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, of Ditame, drawn up by Commission 1st, Institutional, General Administration, Justice and Interior, of the draft law on public employment of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 61; votes in favour, 7; abstentions, 7. The voting is positive. This transaction is therefore approved.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u98	We then begin voting on amendments from the various groups, starting with amendments from the Joint Parliamentary Group. We vote for the whole minus Amendment 208. Voting G.P. amendments. Joint Ditame, drawn up by Commission 1st, Institutional, General Administration, Justice and Home Affairs, of the Galician Public Employment Bill, except No. 208. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 34; votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected. Voting G.P. amendments. of the Nationalist Block Galego au Ditame, prepared by Commission 1st, Institutional, General Administration, Justice and Interior, of the Public Employment Bill of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 34; votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected. Voting G.P. amendments. of the Alternative Glaga de Left au Ditame, drawn up by Commission 1st, Institutional, General Administration, Justice and Interior, of the Public Employment Bill of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 34; votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected. Voting G.P. amendments. of the Socialists of Galicia to Ditame, drawn up by Commission 1st, Institutional, General Administration, Justice and Interior, of the draft law on public employment of Galicia, except numbers 84 and 181. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 34; votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected. Ditame's vote, drawn up by Commission 1st, Institutional, General Administration, Justice and Home Affairs, of the Galician Public Employment Bill, with the incorporation of the transactions already approved. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 41; votes against, 34. The voting is positive. Accordingly, the Public Employment Act of Galicia is approved. Vote on the proposal for a law of the G.P. Galician People Reform Act 6/1985, June 24, the Board of Auditors, and other rules, for the prevention of corruption. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 41; votes against, 34. The voting is positive. The adoption of this bill is therefore approved. Voting of the amendment to the total refund of G.P. Joint, draft law on the creation of the Official College of Dietists-Nutritionists of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 3; votes against, 57; abstentions, 13. The result of the vote is negative. The bill therefore continues its parliamentary process.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u99	We suspended the session until tonight at 6:00 p.m., 4 p.m. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u100	Good afternoon. Let's restart the session. Opinion of the Economic and Industrial Councillor, on his own request, to report on the Industrial Competitiveness Agenda in Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u101	You have the floor, for your intervention, Mr. Francisco Conde's economic and industrial adviser.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u102	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen. Today I come to this House with the purpose of presenting to you the Plan Director of Industry-Agenda for Competitiveness Galicia Industry 4.0, and I do it with a strong desire to promote constructive and positive dialogue, a dialogue that can overcome political differences and a dialogue that is primarily useful for companies working in Galicia. So, ladies and gentlemen, I hope that on this occasion we can go beyond repeating the slogans and the wordplays of previous plenary, and I really hope to collect your proposals, the opposition proposals, to enrich an agenda that the Greek industry needs to strengthen itself and grow. Because what's at stake is their future, our future, because industry is important yesterday, today and tomorrow. In this government we have made it clear that our bet is precisely to set industrial fabric in Galicia, because it is the sector that has historically shown to create more and more jobs and quality. Ladies and gentlemen, we have already achieved the necessary macroeconomic stability to re-grow and re-create industry and build the pillars of the Greek economy. Because when we say that Galicia meets the target of the deficit, that Galicia controls indebtedness, that keeps the investor effort and that it pays the suppliers swiftly, we're talking about measures that have driven a trend change, a trend change that we've managed to get Galicia out of recession in 2014, after the German GDP is chained four consecutive quarters with positive rates and increased by 0.5% in inter-annual terms; that this trend also starts to have positive effects on employment. With data in March 2015, there are 24,300 unemployed less than a year ago and 17,000 more members of Social Security. That for the first time since the beginning of the crisis, 2008, there's an increase in domestic demand of 1.1%, which gives us an idea that recovery is beginning to come slowly and also to families. Something is happening in the business sector, because gross capital formation, which indicates the evolution of its investment, has again been positive since 2007 too, in this case with an increase of 1.3%. So now is the time for a policy, it is the time for a strategy by and to strengthen the industrial sector and make it the driving force behind the growth of the Greek economy. A plan that collects the Galicia Industry 4.0 Competitiveness Agenda, within the framework of Horizon 2020, on-line with the European Union guidelines and, as we did at the time, with the Strategy of Smart Specialization, the RIS3, and the Strategy of Internationalization of Galicia. So, we're dealing with a roadmap that's optimizing the exogenous and territorial factors that affect competitiveness, and a roadmap that also affects endogenous factors, and that will therefore serve to advance a new production model that is more based on innovation, technology and value creation. And we do it, ladies and gentlemen, with a double objective. Firstly, industry is growing to provide 20% of the German gross domestic product in 2020; and, secondly, create 50,000 new jobs to develop and that Galicia's industrial occupation recovers levels prior to the crisis, in this case in 2007. But before I begin to sketch out the Galicia Industry 4.0 Competitiveness Agenda, let me make a brief diagnosis of the Galician industry today and the changes that have been made in recent years; a realistic diagnosis, an objective diagnosis that draws us what is the tendency of the Galician industry and helps us identify also what their needs are. The economic crisis in recent years has led to a fall in the weight of the industrial sector in gross added value, in this case a fall of 2.8 points, according to the Galego Institute of Statistics, from 15.9 % in 2007 to 13.1 % in 2014. And this is something, ladies and gentlemen, which has been common, unfortunately, in the whole of Spain and also in the whole of the European Union. In particular, in Spain, the gross industrial value added fell 1.8 points, from 15 % to 3.2 %, i.e. one tenth just above Galicia's position, and in the case of the European Union that fall was 1.3 %. Even so, at present, there are 12,676 industrial companies in Galicia, companies that occupy 153,000 people, and are also generating gross added value of more than 9,000 million euros. So, ladies and gentlemen, we have a productive fabric based on small and medium-sized companies, which will be the main objective of the various measures of the Galicia Industry 4.0 Competitiveness Agenda. But we won't forget big companies like Indidex, PSA Peugeot Citroën, Estrella Galicia, Finsa, companies that are especially important for their tractor effect on the economy and their contribution to Galicia's image. Finally – and we have said so too – the recovery of the Greek industry is now more fragile and complex than we would like to be. In fact, the annual IPI rate continues to be negative, -3,5 %, in February this same year. But despite that, too, ladies and gentlemen, we have positive symptoms. Exports since 2013-2014 have exceeded the figures for any previous year. There are 5,876 less unemployed people in the industrial sector, which is 15.4% less than a year ago. The business trust index is 5.8% higher than a year ago. And it also increases the confidence of the Galician families, with an indicator that improved by more than 15 points in the first quarter of the year with respect to the same period of the year 2014. Ladies and gentlemen, the situation in the Galician industry is still due to the effects of the crisis, but it is true that there are a number of structural factors that have always been there and that we must continue. However, it is also true that as we move away and go beyond the year 2007, the Welsh industry is improving its ability to compete, a capacity that it has already proven. The detailed analysis of the favorable and unfavorable factors that condition our industrial fabric is collected in the Agenda, which is accessible on the Igape website, and therefore in this appearance, I will just mention some of the most important aspects in the view of this government. Thus, within the limiting aspects, we would highlight, firstly, high corporate atomization, i.e. the existence in Galicia of a large number of small enterprises that are making it extremely difficult to achieve the productivity of other economies such as Germany, France or Italy. Secondly, there is a clear need for greater diversification and greater technological intensity of our productive tissue. We also need to continue to work on greater cooperation with a strategic vision, especially in the areas of innovation and the development of internationalization. And they also know that in Galicia we have a high concentration of exports in certain markets, mainly in the European Union. On the positive side, we also have important factors. We're talking about a productive fabric that has continually increased companies based on technology and many with international success. We are maintaining the positioning of leading industrial poles in strategic sectors, such as textiles, automotive, health or food, and even with very significant advances in emerging sectors such as the aeronautical sector or the biotechnology sector, which are showing great potential. We also have more modern and competitive logistics and support infrastructures in Galicia, we have clearly identified capacities and growth potentials in the Strategy of Smart Specialization and we have, ladies and gentlemen, new instruments and policies with a focus on industrialization. In this context, the global trend, the trend of the international economy is aimed at reinventing industry through the smart factory; a reality that is developing in international markets and which logically Galicia and Spain also have the responsibility to participate in the reinvention of our productive fabric. And, in this way, the industrial policy of the German Government that I present to you this afternoon seeks, precisely, to adapt our efforts to that reality, always seeking a balance between supporting specific sectors and a set of horizontal actions aimed at completing market action. Because, ladies and gentlemen, they are companies, they are industries that share the same purpose: competition and growth, and they must do so necessarily in a context of growing international competition. We are, ladies and gentlemen, in the face of a real revolution that goes beyond mere automation, and that unites, for the first time, companies, universities and technology centres with the common objective of achieving sustainable and competitive models, models in which robots and humans work together in areas with total connectivity, where cyber systems accelerate productivity and innovation, where manufacturing technology such as the additive production of 3D printers is the protagonist, as are the new materials and advanced industrial services. And all this without forgetting that these products have to get to the market and that therefore they have to meet the demands of increasingly efficient consumers who need an ultra-personalised production, an axial production, which, of course, is also open to small businesses. So, ladies and gentlemen, the Industry 4.0 model is an unquestionable reality, it's a reality that we mustn't or can refuse. Germany, the United States, the United Kingdom and South Korea are already moving forward in their smart factory programs. But change is not limited to them. Other regions very close to Galicia have the attention placed in this model. We're talking about the Basque Country, in the case of Spain, but also about Flanders, Belgium, Rome or the southern Netherlands. Industry 4.0 which is in no way exclusive. It's a new way of addressing industrial processes and a new way of creating value through technology, talent and innovation. In this sense, the smart factory model is for everyone and will prove decisive for both the most advanced and high-tech industries as well as the most traditional and small industries. This is the case, for example, of the company on line Mymuesli, which, with only 18 ingredients, allows its customers to customize their product to more than 566,000 million in different ways. Or we're talking about companies like Molca, which, thanks to the 3D printing, are able to reduce the time and cost of launching new products on the market. Ladies and gentlemen, a change in how to produce, a change in how to compete, which is understood by several companies in Galicia. We're talking about companies like GKN, like Delta Vigo, like Televes, like Coasa, like PSA Peugeot Citroën, that all walk towards greater robotization and greater digitization of their productive systems, and that they do it with the increasingly qualified staff, with a permanent goal of doing things differently and doing things better. Zero inefficiencies, zero defects and the highest quality. Because Industry 4.0 and intelligent manufacturing is much more than robots and machines, gentlemen, much more. I was telling you, ladies and gentlemen, that Industry 4.0 and intelligent manufacturing is much more than robots and machines. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Technology is already a commodity that can be taken anywhere in the world. The technology our companies want to compete with can lead to anywhere in the world. And, of course, what will make us really different, what will make the Welsh industry competitive is the way we use that technology to generate more value than our competitors. That's the reality you have to face against our company. [[Applause]] In this direction, ladies and gentlemen, smaller companies are also working here; small companies in Galicia like Lupeon 3D, in Orders, a company specializing in 3D printing and additive factory; such as Prosystems, in Porriño, specialized in the manufacture of continuous floors; or like CEAMSA, also in Porriño, which produces high quality pectins for the agri-food industry. Finally, we are talking about companies – both large companies and pemmes – that are already working in the direction that requires competition on the market, which ultimately requires Industry 4.0. And besides, in parallel, in Galicia, we also have companies that specialize in designing smart manufacturing processes and systems. We're talking about companies like Russula, like Aukor, like Vigotec, like Macrot, like Itera Tecnica or Texas Controls. All of them, ladies and gentlemen, are playing an important role in the transformation of the manufacturing processes of our companies through automation and robotization solutions. Ladies and gentlemen, Industry 4.0 is definitely not a slogan. Industry 4.0 is a reality that the Galician industry wants to join, because it trusts its ability to compete with the best and also because, as I have just mentioned, there are companies that are already preparing to be in industry 4.0's lead group in Europe and therefore exert a tractor effect on the German industrial fabric. This government, of course, must and wants to meet its demands. [[Applause]] In this sense, the Galicia Industry 4.0 Competitiveness Agenda that I present to you is born of the proximity of the Italian entrepreneurship, as well as the proximity of clusters, technological centres and other economic agents present in our country. In total, more than one hundred and twenty agents participated, among whom I want to highlight especially the companies themselves this afternoon. We are talking about large and small companies, advanced or traditional companies, more or less innovative companies, exporting or non-exporting companies. All of them collaborated in the elaboration of this agenda, an agenda, ladies and gentlemen, of industry, an open and inclusive agenda that reflects public-private collaboration to put into practice a new smart industry that can turn a global revolution into a local opportunity. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] This dialogue started last year led us to design five major impulse programmes in the Galicia Industry 4.0 Competitiveness Agenda, with concrete measures to meet specific needs and objectives. I am referring to the improvement of territorial factors of competitiveness, to more professional organizations and more qualified people, to deepen business capitalization and growth, to drive a component of greater innovation and, finally, to expand markets. Five programmes with specific objectives and measures which I shall briefly summarize. The first program on the Agenda seeks to improve the exogenous and territorial factors. We need, ladies and gentlemen, to adapt the ecosystem to make it easier for the Greek industries to be more dynamic, more competitive and more intensive in the use of new technologies. So commitments are precisely generalizing and intensifying the use of ICT in companies, especially in small and medium-sized enterprises. It also facilitates more economical and better-equipped industrial soil, an action that, as you know, we have already begun to carry out and which is producing important results. Strengthen and coordinate the different logistics infrastructures. And finally, promoting doing business, that is, facilitating business creation through regulatory simplification and axillization in different processes. As you know, we have generally eliminated municipal opening licences, we have already published rules such as the decree to facilitate the opening of new petrol stations through a unified and integrated procedure. And we will continue, ladies and gentlemen, we will continue with measures such as the launch of a business doing office in Galicia, which will address, through an online platform, all the complaints and all the proposals and suggestions that businessmen transfer to us. The objective is clear: that administration is no obstacle to the creation of a business in Galicia at any time. The second program focuses on people and organizations. We're talking about talent, we're talking about technological and organizational excellence. With the Agenda we will seek to connect training systems with the new needs of industry, and we will do so through a firm bet on dual vocational training and higher education. We will facilitate the knowledge of models and technologies for the intelligent factory, and we will do it through identification, demonstration and advice on trends, and also through training on their adaptation and implementation. In parallel, we will all make a new effort to strengthen the Greek industries through their cooperation. And we will also enhance industrial entrepreneurship, with focus on sectors of great potential and the creation of startups. We already have a clear example in the Agrobioteg Innovation program, so the biotechnological, food and biomass companies have a specific support to consolidate and grow, and we will continue with similar initiatives. The third program on the Agenda aims to focus on the growth and size of our small and medium-sized enterprises. The size, ladies and gentlemen, is, without a doubt, one of the great eyves that has the Italian industrial fabric. With the new European funds 2014-2020 we will promote lines of funding that will favour the investments of new industrial establishments or the expansion and improvement of existing ones, without forgetting, of course, the support for companies that still need to adjust their financial structure, because this action will not fail to be a priority for the Greek Government. Therefore, together with the European Funds 2014-2020, which included in-depth grants and innovative financial instruments, XesGalice will continue to offer funding through participatory loans and shareholdings in corporate capital. Igape will continue to make available to pemmes the Jeremiah loans, the first initiative, as you know, which offers our loans with European funds to our pemmes. And the EIB's new loan line will allow EUR 135 million to support the circular, so that pemmes can grow in size and finance new investments. With this objective, we will also promote the diversification of our products and businesses through hybridization of different sectors. Ladies and gentlemen, in Galicia we already have examples of this potential. Examples are the application of advances by the manufacturing industry in the automotive sector, the ICT industry in textiles or shipbuilding in the marine wind. So our challenge will be to put more initiatives into practice. The fourth program refers to innovation. It includes measures to create value and design our intelligent factory model. As you know, the challenge 2 of the Strategy of Smart Specialization focuses precisely on the drive of industrial competitiveness and, therefore, on the development of this model of intelligent manufacturing. We are ultimately driving and favoring innovative projects as a basis for creating the smart factory, without, of course, helping any kind of competitive innovation. We will encourage the transfer of research results to the market – no transfer and no innovation –. And, of course, we will encourage the collection of public and private funds to implement Industry 4.0, mainly through EU funds, such as Horizon 2020. Fifthly, the fifth programme of this Agenda will support the aspects of internationalisation. In this sense, we will try new ways to attract foreign investments that allow our value chains to close here in Galicia. For this reason, the Board of Directors has just approved an injection of nearly 2 million euros designed precisely to encourage foreign investment, an initiative that will be developed in sectors of particular interest to Galicia, such as the agri-food sector, automotive, naval, aeronautics, transport, ICT or logistics. And in addition, we will continue to focus on our commitment for new markets and the diversification of our external sector, where the support of the Pexga Network, in collaboration with the Confederation of Galician Entrepreneurs, will be decisive. So, ladies and gentlemen, we have a strategy in place. We have a plan, ambitious, designed and consensual with our own Welsh industry and with a clear goal of facilitating all possible tools to make our productive fabric more competitive and more sustainable; an agenda to support our companies' adaptation to the keys of the smart factory, without failing to address at all times the needs of companies that don't opt for this model. On this path, the Galicia Industry 4.0 Competitiveness Agenda will look for the strength of each and every one of our productive sectors, with the clear objective that they grow and create jobs in our community. All productive sectors will have measures specific to their needs, some with ad hoc measures and with specific and specific measures. I'm talking to you about the naval sector, for example, where, as you know, we've agreed to encourage the development of innovative new technologies in the naval sector, which will facilitate access by our shipyards and our industry to assist industry 4.0 manufacturing technologies. Even so, it will be key to the more than 11 million euros that we will invest in the development of the aviation sector in Galicia, with a clearly emerging opportunity and in which the aviation sector bet is final. [[Applause]] To close, ladies...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u103	Quiet, please! Continue, Counselor. [[Murmurs.]] Continue, Counselor, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u104	To close, ladies and gentlemen, and after years of trouble, it's time to be proud of what we have. I personally am proud to be a German of the talent and of the Welsh industry, who work elbowed in the CTAG to revolutionize the home-machine interface. I'm proud of the talent and the Welsh industry, who wear men, women and children from Dubai to Melbourne. I'm proud of the talent and the Welsh industry, which allows us to occupy the food shelves in Japan's commercial stores. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Ladies and gentlemen, it is time to take a step forward and take advantage of the new horizon that is open to us. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, it's time to make a country by reinventing our industry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u105	Thank you very much, Counselor. Round of parliamentary groups. The Mixed Group has the word Mrs. Consuelo Martínez García.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u106	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, everyone. Good afternoon, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u107	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u108	You really have a hard role. He comes here today as he goes to a social dining room to sell caviar. Please! [[Murmurs.]] Exactly! Please! And it's true -- Mr. Tellado, calm down, I just started. Then don't get nervous.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u109	Don't talk, please. Mr. Tellado and Mrs. Martínez, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u110	Yes, at good hours you come here, exactly in green sleeves, at good hours you come here asking for the arrivals of the opposition, when you did not count on the opposition for nothing, for nothing, eh! The People's Party made only this agenda, developed it, didn't count on the opinion, and it's more, it didn't take into account any of the approaches that were made in relation to industry, both in committee and in full, by the opposition. So, of course, when we take the propaganda track, the PP doesn't have the brakes anymore, step on the accelerator in depth, and until we hit the 24th of May, we won't stop advertising. But if it's true that part of a realistic diagnosis, part of a diagnosis of a mini-fundist country, with companies that don't get to be pemmes, micro-enterprises in most of them, so very little qualified, and you come here talking about Industry 4.0, in a country where 4.5 percent of your industry is the only one that has real chance of becoming or becoming an Industry 4.0. So when I say he comes to sell caviar to a social dining room, I mean he's selling an industry project for which we don't have the necessary foundations in this country yet to establish what would be in a realistic way where you should start. In early 2014, of the 12,676 industries registered at INE, 4,930 had no employees. That's the German industry. Only 344 industrial companies outnumbered 50 workers, and those 344, 285 didn't reach the 50 workers. Only 11 companies outnumber the 500 workers and workers in Galicia. What are you talking about, Counselor? Put your feet on the ground so you can ever get to that Industry 4.0 and high-tech. The companies of 1 or 2 employees accounted for 66.6% of the total of the Italian industrial enterprises in 2014. This data shows a reality far away from the grandiose announcements of the Government, the reality of a country away from progress, which builds its competitiveness on the precariousness of working conditions, business minifundism and the immediacy of benefits. Almost 60% of microenterprises, 50% of small businesses and 45.6% of medium and large enterprises are concentrated in a segment characterized by low technology. Measures such as the Act on Support for Entrepreneurs and Their Internationalization, the flat rate for Social Security, the possibility of capitalising unemployment benefit, fall into policies directed to self-government, not industry creation, and less Industry 4.0. However, the Industrial Strategic Plan itself recognises that the current crisis has highlighted the role of industry as a growth and employment generator, and claims that industrialized countries have lost fewer jobs and have brought much better, have endured much better crises. But, recognizing this reality, the People's Party is reluctant to vote against any opposition proposal to activate the German industrial sector and promote the quality industry. Since it's not understood that in such a situation, and with as much interest as Joina has in Industry 4.0, Igape can't afford all of its budget. The aim of the Galician Union's economic policy for the next few years is to occupy a place within the Union as a fully integrated European region, with a sustainable, coherent and growth-based model. Well, we must start from our industrial reality. The Industrial Strategic Plan identifies the challenges, and among them the demographic, the competitiveness of the economy, the environment and energy. However, out of the competitiveness of the economy, the rest don't spend virtually anything on it. The effects of the deep crisis have called into question Galicia's current growth model. The opportunities and threats highlight the aging of the population, without any single measure aimed at solving this problem, or how to attract or maintain the workforce in our country. It also speaks and refers to a Public Employment Act that goes against what they now say in this new agenda, since it is precisely the Administration that cuts most into employment and investment for industry. Within the weaknesses analyzed, he speaks of the poor specialization of production, but he does not say or establishes how training will be done to respond to this lack of specialization, because there is no talk either of time or of how it will be solved or of what measures will be taken to solve this business atomization. Nor does it meet a reality, and it is that 50% of the total exports correspond to vehicles and clothing parts, being the rest of the sectors very below, although they stand out – as not! – the forest sector or the stone sector. To attract foreign capital to Galicia, another of the needs, but it does not say how it will be brought, like the fall in the number of industrial enterprises and the financial weakness of the companies that remain in our country and who are however unable to find financial support from Galician Union itself. Within the threats, he speaks of growing global competition. What I don't understand is, if this is a threat, why don't you oppose the free trade treaty with the United States, that that yes is really a threat to our country. He also talks about the threat of competition in costs in the northern region of Portugal, but Galicia does not have to compete in costs with Portugal, but it must compete through quality and not precariousness, that is, offering better logistics and better support services to industry. It also talks about the bargaining power of distribution chains, which have to deal with pemmes and micro-enterprises. However, you don't have this same defense position when we talk about gloves and milk; the distribution chains for you are untouchable. Just like in the fortresses, when it comes to traction sectors, it's a lot of attention to me, because you've appointed it now, but throughout the Agenda there's a total lack of naval sector as a strategic sector; it's named, but it's completely disappearing from the entire Agenda; it makes sense that Junta has pulled the towel from the naval sector. I'd like you to clarify if that's the case, because that's what really comes out of all the text. He also talks about the food sector as one of the key sectors for the Greek industry. However, the board applauded and did not act when food industries were closed, such as Cuca, Alfageme or Freiremar can conserve. Now you're saying they're essential industries for our country. And we're not talking about the business parks, a merchant network created by you to make your mayors happy in the electoral processes. I'm out of time, and it's a shame, because, speaking of opportunities, when you talk about alternative energies, you're talking about biomass, and...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u111	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u112	...the rest disappears. When he talks about more specialized and effective public policies to achieve his goals, he stays there. I don't know what specific and effective policies it refers to. I'd love to have you tell me what those policies are. And he also talks about attracting highly skilled workers to Galicia. I don't know. To me the main thing would be not to leave those we have, it would be an achievement, but it's just that, besides, you want to attract them; I don't know if you want to attract them via low wages or through huge schedules, practically without charge. So we think this is more propaganda. Unfortunately, you lose the opportunity to start a real diagnosis to reach something that doesn't make any sense if you take that diagnosis as real. I, Counselor, would ask you, starting from that diagnosis...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u113	Thank you very much, Mrs. Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u114	...make the necessary parts for our industry to start growing and growing, and we'll get to where we have to go.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u115	Thank you very much. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. Mrs. Adam Villamarin has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u116	Thank you, President, good afternoon. Ladies and gentlemen. Good afternoon, Counselor. We were careful and attentive to his appearance and to me personally, as I heard him talking about industry, something that is really concrete -- we're talking about numbers, people -- I only came to mind -- and I'm sorry that the quote is partial, not complete, is what I remember -- "I saw things you wouldn't believe: ships in flames beyond Orion, C rays shining in the darkness." You know perfectly well how this reflection of a replicator surely ends just as it ends in your life. We're talking about the home-machine interaction, the living spaces in Industry 4.0, which we thank you for being able to talk about abstract and concrete. You make a competitiveness agenda that you called Plan Director of Industry. First question. Let us be clear if you understand that this competitiveness agenda is exactly an industry-directed plan, because then we would have a difference between what we understand is an industry-directed plan and a competitiveness agenda. Second. Ask us to leave the warrants. Well, I just put three sentences: "economic recovery is a reality" -- between quotes -- "now is the time of industrial policy" -- between quotes -- "we need to reinvent Industry 4.0, because it's a revolution in which humans and robots work together," textually, you said. If this isn't slogans, tell me exactly what kind of reflections they are. If you want us to talk about specific things, we can go to specific questions. The only numbers and the only commitments in this agenda are that industry reaches 20% and 50,000 jobs. They're both concrete commitments, but, yes, there's no budgetary commitments. You're talking about new financial and political instruments. Concrete exactly what these new instruments are, tell us how they're going to fit in. Nor are there any indicators that schedule here on the horizon by 2020 how those 50,000 jobs will be achieved, which, on the other hand, were those that have already been lost in the industrial sector in the last six years of Mr Feijóo's industrial policy; that is, it would be at the levels of 2009. And, with more specific things, you tell us about reinforcement, impulse and hybridization. Reinforcement. The existing sectors. Agri-food sector. Something you'll have to say about the dairy sector, because here we have a serious problem at the moment in the farm in Galicia. Today's milk prices continue to drop, and it's like with the Industry Council this had absolutely nothing to do with it, as if it had nothing to do with the fact that we don't have a dairy sector in Galicia, that we don't have in Galicia that milk group that is needed. Reinforcement of the naval sector. We still see news like, well, Pemex is going to sell his fleets that are being built right now. I want to keep reminding you that in Galicia you promised 21 ships – 2 in construction –. But since he also spoke of that hybridization of the naval sector, we wanted to be told what they understand – to me the word must confess that if I like it, it seems to me an interesting word to the word "hybrid" – what it really means. You mean, the lack of ship building, the lack of ship building, if you build elements for the wind sector with much less technology even than the realization of a ship, which is one of the technologically most interesting elements that can be done? Well, frankly, it seems like it's trying to sell us something that's not. Another specific question, too, about alternative energies, because, of course, if we talk about reinforcement in industry, you say that we are on the path of recovery, which is a reality, and now is the moment of industrial policy. Something, however little, should be devoted to the wind sector; I don't know, I don't know, I don't want to apologize, or I don't want to acknowledge the failure of industrial plans for wind, jobs, investments, mobilizations – which you talk about in such terms not in terms of investment –. But something will have to say about the wind sector and the loss of jobs, and also in terms of competitiveness, the loss of Galician competitiveness in that sector. Just one specific question: do you talk about the impulse of emerging companies, which of those emerging companies have pemes X-rays? It's something we can't find, not in the Industry 4.0 Competitiveness Agenda, because they're basically very small pemes with very little technology. Because speaking of technology and impulse, there are several questions I wanted you to explain to us. It is very good that the human-machine relationship – old enough because being human and technology since technology is called technet – is a continuous one, but how do you explain that since 2009 – the data we have and also appears in the annexes to the agenda itself – have disappeared in Galicia 8,700 companies with medium and high technology, catalogued like this? I mean, it's not that there were no tech companies, even with a clear eye on other communities, as it can be, for example, the Basque Country, clearly. But, of course, neither the size of companies nor the industrial planning that was made in the governments of the Basque Country, and the Fraga governments had nothing to do with, nor the bet of innovation. But how do you explain that more than 8,000 companies had been lost in the medium and high-tech sectors, about 20% of high- and medium-tech industrial employment? This is what you think is the improvisation of Mr Feijó's last governments in regard to the industrial field linked to innovation, which we have not yet discovered what Industry 4.0 is, that RIS3 was still in the world of ideas before we passed it into the world of paper, because it's the only one in it? We'd like you to aquilarate that look. And then, specifically, as we know nothing about how that reinforcement, impulse and hybridization of the new Industry 4.0 is going to be done, asking you about the budget execution. Because since there is no specific budget commitment in the agenda or schedule of how that budget execution will be carried out, why the Economic and Industry Council, of all the boards, is the one that has a lower execution? And above all a lower execution in Chapter VII, in the Chapter of Capital Transfers, where the execution is only 52.2% in 2014. We believe that this is a concrete issue, but it affects the real industry, that of every day, the pemes of every day. I think this is a very important issue. Because, moreover, it coincides that from 2009 to 2014, for example, in the Welsh Plan of Research, Development and Innovation – which you call "innovation" at all – what has been a cut of 24% of the funds. Funds that, as I have just told you, have only been executed in this case by 64%, but in the support games for modernization and the improvement of competitiveness – that of the agenda – because 47% have been reduced, and, as I said before, with little execution. In this case for this game in particular the execution of last year 2014 was 40.8%. So, Counsellor, we really do like literature – I personally like literature and, of course, that science fiction literature, also science fiction film – what we don't like is that a counselor goes out on repeated occasions to Parliament's gallery and what he presents to us is a literature of little value to me in his writing and, in addition, of very little impact, let's go, null, into the Greek economy. Because, Counselor, the situation in the Welsh industry is much worse than in 2009, the sectors that really had industrial power in Galicia have declined, and the new sectors we don't see which is the bet on the Innovation Plan.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u117	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u118	You come to tell us the same thing as in RIS3, the same thing that always tells us about Industry 4.0, but the issues are very specific: why does industrial employment decrease? why do all the indicators decrease in respect of industry? For example, bring us some new ones that we wouldn't ask you last time. Why decreases the corporate confidence index in Galicia? While it rises in the state in Galicia it decreases in the last quarter of 2015 by 7.9%. Do them with your head but it's the official data.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u119	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u120	Why is the consumer confidence rate decreasing? Why is gross capital formation half as well as in the Spanish State? Counsellor, I think you have to leave that science fiction literature with regard to the Galician industry and focus on specific issues: what financial mechanisms will you put on the table to get out of the industrial situation in which Galicia is in? And how are you going to work with companies? We have made proposals in this Parliament and you voted against, I will only remind you of three...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u121	Thank you very much, Mrs. Adam.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u122	...–Yes, finished – the Institute of Credit and Financing, the Industrial Corporation and the real competitiveness that would be to reduce the bill of light to the companies and to the Greek pemmes. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u123	Thank you very much. Parliamentary Group of the Alternative Left Gallega, has the word Mr. Antón Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u124	Good afternoon. In these shows you never know where they're going to go, so even if you bring them ready because they change third. So, after this 1984 story of George Orwell's style, I'm going to be scared or ashamed to say that for Galicia in the important future is to make cheeses and yogurt. Because, of course, the Counsellor made a speech which was equally valid for Galicia than for Poland, rather than for the United States, than for Switzerland. He made a fable that was worth to any country, a fable, and papaya, right? For parrots, that's what the future has to be very modern... but in this country you haven't spoken about. I don't know what the model is for this country. If it's Silicon Valley, you've driven out all those talented Thursdays in the last few years of this country; if it's a project for a country called Galicia that has – as the Competitiveness Agenda says yourself – some territorial competitiveness factors that must be taken advantage of, if we have to take advantage of our conditions to generate industry, that's different. What you've come here to talk about is generalities entirely alien to our reality, Counselor. You don't have to come here to tell us that if such a company in Orders works very well or if such a company in Porriño works very well, that's not their job, nor is it their merit that there are people who have no talent either. The task of you is to create what you defined as an ecosystem so that those talented people can develop their economic activity. And that ecosystem is financing, energy prices, infrastructures, etc., everything you're doing wrong. But that's your job, the rest of them already get caught so that you don't bother too much. And then self-criticism zero, came here to make a totally twisted diagnosis of reality, because it's obvious that you can't talk about reality and government balance because you didn't arrive yesterday, they arrived in 2009. And this is the balance in a taboo of your government: busy – according to EPA – when you arrived, 1,170,300 people; at the end of 2014, 982,000 people. You've destroyed 187,000 jobs since you arrived, you've destroyed more than 20% of industrial employment since you arrived, you've increased your homes with difficulty to reach the end of the month by 17% since you arrived, etc. All the indicators are here. The industrial production index you led the fall in 2014 and 2015; we continue the same. So this is reality, a reality you haven't spoken of. He didn't mention the situation of how strategic sectors were, like wind, when they arrived, and how they are now, and how they are a year after you had passed a law disk to reactivate the wind sector. Nor did he talk about the status of the naval, with employment levels of the year 2005, Mr Counsellor, without future contracts. You – as I said before – arrived in the government in March 2009 at this last stage, we have been six years of government Feijóo, Solvente. And we're not going to judge them for promises that break from scratch, especially with the credibility that you have. See, September 1, 2011: "The President of the Galician Council, Alberto Núñez Feijóo, advanced this afternoon in the Council's press round the adoption of the first draft law regulating industrial policy in Galicia. A bill" – I said – "pioneer, which drives a strategic model based on innovation and internationalization, competitiveness and the economy. It's the first time a German Government has approved a draft law to realize the strategy of the new industrial policy in a new economic scenario like what we're living in. For the first time a Government will plan and promote a new industrial policy for the next decade. It's a bill that will facilitate the implementation of strategic industrial projects." Where are the strategic industrial projects, Mr. Counsellor? Following a specific procedure, what credibility will you have after what you have done with this country's Industrial Law? After promoting reforms with specific strategic plans, the strategy plan for milk, where is the strategy plan for milk promised by Mr Feijóo, Counsellor? Or do we not produce half the state's milk here, and then when you come to talk about industry, don't you have to talk about milk industry in this country? A new fishing law, an agro plan, a plan for the car, a plan for the naval, an energy plan, with great results, Energy Plan 2011. What credibility will you have when you repeat promises as if you have just arrived at the government today? Feijó said: "What happens now is, in addition to maintaining all this, to make a new stage of Galician industrial policy in a new stage of economic growth" – it is worth redundancy, not mine – "and of a different economic model from what we have so far had: innovation, internationalization and competitiveness. In this way, the President of the Union reiterated that the keys to the new industrial policy will be three: innovation, and for this we have already approved the 2011-2015 Research, Innovation and Growth Plan, internationalisation and improvement of competitiveness to base the physical and technological infrastructures and prioritize them according to the industrial planning of the community." Where's the Industry Director Plan, the industrial plan you promised to do in six months, where have you been? Now it's a competitiveness agenda, isn't it an industrial plan? Six months I'd put into the law that you had to make that plan that would plan the industry for the next few years. "During his speech Feijóo also referred to the four most prominent aspects of this rule: the strategic vision of industrial policy, the promotion of entrepreneurship cooperation in participation and consultation," etc. "As for the first aspect, it has ensured that Galicia's industrial policy is incardinated in the Strategic Plan of Economy 2010-2014 horizon 2020"; we have already lost so many plans. And, therefore, the law provides for an approval of a Plan Director of the Galician Industry, Strategic Plan 2014-2020. I have the results and forecasts of that strategic plan around here – to see if I can find it here. Because, look, among other things, I was talking about some goals that were marked by that strategic plan – well, I'm not finding it now, but I already know it by heart. At that time, in 2010, Galicia invested 1% of GDP in R & D; the goal was to increase it to 1.5 in 2014. By the end of 2014, far from 1.5%, you were down to 0.87, and that's what the GDP of those years went down and it was easier to keep it -- I found it. The per capita GDP of Galicia with respect to the European Union of the Twenty-seven was 90%, forecasted to increase to 95%; in 2014 it dropped to 87. The population employed between 20 and 64 years of age in 2010 was 63%, the target was to increase to 65; in 2014 it was 58.18. The credibility for us now that you will be able to create some 50,000 jobs in industry by 2020. "Let's go," said Mr. Feijóo, "to explain facilities for the implementation of companies, facilities for the implementation and consolidation of new specific strategic industrial projects of relevance in Galicia." Where are those strategic industrial projects? "Our mission," he said, "is the generation of a modern, creative and competitive industry, creator of employment, quality and knowledge." Don't you hear this canteen? It's something like what you came here to say. Just like they came to say that RIS3, etc., is full of generalities. You have to come here as Industry Advisor and talk about the naval, talk about what failed in the naval for when 1,400 jobs were promised and today they don't get to 300; when they talked about Pemex contracts and now there's no such contracts; when they said the Barreras operation was a success and now you see that the only thing they came here was technology and they didn't develop contracts; from Navantia they had to talk. When you come here you had to talk about what failed in the wind, because when you arrived this country was the leader in wind production and today it is completely paralyzed, and if you don't come here and say how many megawatts of wind were installed in Galicia in 2014. How many megawatts have been installed? How many megawatts have been installed in the wind competition, and later that amendment of the law, Counsellor? You had to come here and say that's what happened in Milk Food...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u125	It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u126	...the promise of a Greek milk group for the transformation of milk. What happened? Give the money to friends, to two people who were unable to manage this company and waste public money. You had to come here and say that's what happened so that the investment in R+D+i went down continuously. But you came here to disguise a reality, to tell a fable, which, as I said, is good for here and for any country, and not to assume their responsibilities, because I repeat that you didn't arrive yesterday...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u127	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u128	...you are a government that to have credibility in its proposals have to start assuming, at least, its failures in these six years. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u129	Thank you very much. The Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr. Abel Losada has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u130	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen. Counselor, I to avoid the slogans you spoke of when you started talking, I'm going to start with poetry, which I think will always help. Angel González said, "They call you for the future, because you never come." And it is, indeed, undoubtedly, the situation of the Welsh industry since Mr Feijóo's rule. And from poetry I'm going to go to math, I'm sure you know who Alan Turing, Cambridge mathematician who helped decode the Nazi secret codes, who said, we can know little about the future, but we know enough to figure out what almost everything remains to be done. [[Applause]] And unfortunately, Counselor, I don't know whether these are warrants or not, but it is obvious that in Galicia, in industrial terms, almost everything remains to be done. I remember... well, by the way, I don't know how you want us to make contributions to this plan, we had to attend the Industry Committee, and some of the opposition and party partners that support the Government were witnesses to this, as the Director General of the Galician Innovation Agency told us that if we were given the opportunity to provide ideas and give a conception to the elaboration of the RIS3 Programme. I'd like you to say here formally that this is fake, because if not, to me, the truth is that I stayed a little bit of an asshole's face. And I said: to see if I've made a boy a day, but no, I hadn't made him a boy a day, because the BNG spokesman, the AGE Voicer and the Joint Group Voicer, exactly like me, we didn't have the slightest chance to bring anything, exactly as in this case, Counselor. I think the warrants are yours. It's the order to come here and tell us a mile and tell us what we're doing. I insist: I don't know very well how. But I'm not surprised. Look, I have here a paradigmatic, illustrative picture; it's a picture in which you and the CEO of the Igape receive the illustrious president of the Confederation of Galician Entrepreneurs and his colleague president of the Confederation of Entrepreneurs of Pontevedra, recently elected, to present to them the Agenda for Competitiveness Galicia Industry 2004. And it's enough to see the table: two painting books. I believe that it is the best metaphor for slogans and lies, advertising and propaganda that this government is carrying out in office and which unfortunately ends up in Parliament. Because you've been talking here about some real business issues, I don't know if to say intelligence... but do you know what countries you talked about when you were talking about Industry 4.0? I don't know if they wrote it to him and didn't think what he was talking about: Germany, the United States, the United Kingdom and South Korea. Do you know what is the effort in research and innovation in these countries, Counsellor? But do you really believe that this autonomous community can be compared to something in terms of innovation with some of these countries? And already when he went down to the regions, exactly the same: southern Holland, Maastricht – almost nothing–, Eindhoven – where Philips is, finally, exactly the same as this –, Flanders, Antwerp – exactly the same as this – and the Basque Country. Any of them, even the Basque Country, which is the least of the three, multiply by three the R & D+i effort in this autonomous community. So, yes, he told us about human robots – well, the interaction between robots and humans – and cyberphysical and ultra-personalized production systems. Look, I understand there are consultants who live to sell smoke. I mean, in 1880 in California there were people who sold it to grow it and lived it, legitimately, and there were even "imbeciles" – between quotes – who bought it to grow it. But the reality of this country does not allow for growth, Counselor. I think we have to give some data. He also said that commodity could be taken anywhere in the world. I've been with a Pontiff businessman this morning who doesn't have ADSL in the industrial polygon, how does he keep commodity? by car? By car, Counselor? [[Laughter]] Really, what's commodity in? [[Applause]] In Ponteceso, eh! By the way, also in Eastedo, 12 kilometers from the capital of the autonomous community. So, I understand that you come here and tell us these questions, talk to us about hybridization, talk to us about Plan Pexga. It would be very nice if you'd explained the 18 million Euros of the Confederation of Employers. It's no wonder the presidents of the Galician Employers' Confederation are so smiling sitting on the couch; they give them 18 million euros so they don't know very well that and no one asks them for accounts of what they're using them. The best of the worlds! I don't know if this is a warrant, but of course it's a robbery. I don't know if it's a warrant, but apparently it's a robbery. [[Laughter]] [[Laughter]] The truth is, I conceptually understand where they're trying to put us, because they're trying to put us exactly in that virtual world. Yesterday Mr. Rajoy, well, yesterday something really amazing happened. Mr. Rajoy, the President of the Government of Spain, in front of an audience, large entrepreneurs and high officials of the People's Party, in which I don't think any dangerous Marxist had infiltrated, said, "Trust me," and there was a carcassed sound. I mean, I think... yes, yes, I suppose you can see in any... the paradigm of what we're talking about. [[Laughter]] President Rajoy said yesterday that "Spain was opening itself to a long period of well-being," yes, yes, it is exactly so; I think it is appropriate to reflect on what it means. [[Murmurs.]] I am sure that at the Spanish Intercontinental Hotel, opened with the assistance of Ava Gardner in the year 53, because there was probably not – I insist – any infiltrator of the revolutionary left. But this long period of well-being, Counselor, is now referred to by two data. Look, the first is the Banco de Santander's profits: in the first quarter 1,717 million euros, 32% more than last year. Yes, the minimum interprofessional wage has grown by 0.5%. I don't know if you're a slogan, Counsellor; I know you're not a minister of the Government of Spain, but you're a member of the People's Party. So they'd probably have to tell us something about this story. Today the Banco de España Bulletin was also published, corresponding to the month of April 2015; Banco de España governed by that great patriot named Linde, who says that wages should continue to be lowered, except for his, which is EUR 175,000 and that he rose by 5% when he arrived as governor of the Banco de España. So these are the virtual realities, some very real realities, in which the economic discourses of the People's Party are moving, which is a pity to them. And it's true that I didn't have the intellectual capacity to find that document on that computer maraña on the board page, I saw it now diagonally, in a short time. But even in this the Government of Spain advances them on the left. The Agenda for the Strengthening of the Spanish Industrial Sector, presented by Mr Soria, which is also not a Leninist Marxist paradigm, at some point talks about labour costs, talks about improving the working conditions of workers. I mean, I don't say that there's a social affair, that there isn't, but at least there's the awareness that probably in industry, beyond the conveniences and the interaction between machines and men, the working conditions of workers and workers is an important issue. You're absolutely not a word of any of that. You follow Industry 4.0, a sort of totally paranormal situation, because I would ask you a question, absolutely on the ground: in the agri-food sector, if the raw materials in the primary sector in Galicia really are much cheaper, unfortunately for the producers, that in the rest of Spain, we could compete, we didn't need 4.0? It's pure law of supply and demand, an x-axis and an y-axis, cross the amount and price. Why doesn't it happen? Really, do you think the Galician agri-food industry needs 4.0? No, no, Counselor. He needs what most industry needs in Western countries, even in those countries like South Korea, Germany, the United Kingdom or the United States you're talking about. He needs three things – which, by the way, are in the industrial economy manuals, at least since World War II, I think from before –: Internal demand. It is not possible to consolidate an industrial system solely on export, except that there is an exceptional competitive position in terms of raw material resources or in terms of labour costs. If that's your model come here and tell us, don't tell us about the conveniences of not knowing very well that, because you know perfectly that this exists, and I know that it exists, but you know that you can't mechanically apply an economic, social and labor reality that is far from the referents of that called Industry 4.0. On the one hand, the demand...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u131	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u132	...internal demand too – finished, Madam President – on the other hand, funding. Counselor, really, you talked about Jérémie's loans, I hope they apply a little more in 2015, because you saw the result of the year 2014. Well, first of all, they gave us the information where the names appear in detail, but the amounts don't appear; I guess because they're confirmation pending, I'm not questioning anything, but in any case there were six, there were six that provided us. Don't look at me with a face of skepticism, I'm not lying, this Parliament has reached six; perhaps, this commodity has left a few corners along the way, but here are six.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u133	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u134	And the execution of the Igape we know it. And finally, Counsellor, he needs the innovation industry. And I repeat again: don't talk to me about Flanders or South Holland or Euscadi; 0.86% of GDP in R & D+i, like Ukraine and Turkey.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u135	Finish, please. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u136	That, unfortunately, is the reality. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u137	People's Parliamentary Group, Mr. Pedro Arias Veira has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u138	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Conde. Well, the truth is, the opposition lives in a very special world. I don't know exactly what the world lives in, because you're really just looking at smaller issues, those issues that allow you to mount a criticism, exclusively, but you have no idea what's essential, what characterizes the current reality. They say they haven't heard anything relevant here. Logically, the Socialist Party has been ruling for a long time, and you should know that there is always a need to start with the macroeconomic context and the novelty, the new economic situation – which you said very clearly – in which we find ourselves. Logically, it's not ruling, it goes deeper and lower, and that has a reflex, a disorientation, insults, we're told that we're liars. We never said we had the most powerful financial system in the world, that's never said; we never said that with special light bulbs we were going to fix the energy deficit, neither did we. What do we say? I suppose that if Mr. Touriño had remained in government, because he would have to pronounce himself on the essential, central and fundamental affirmation that Mr. Conde has made, that we have taken four quarters of consecutive growth, and this situation is technically a end of crisis and recession. Well, that's not to say this kind of exclamation, which is an exaggeration of bad education and of higher ignorance, but we have to say it. [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]] Secondly, he also said that as a summary, because this is an appearance... when you have no ideas, you have to interrupt, I know, I'll wait. [[Murmurs.]] I will also look forward to the President's kindness so that important issues affecting our citizens and the future of our community can be treated properly. Another fundamental thing is how we really are. So it's said that the domestic demand for the first time grows by 1%. Truth or lie? Is this data important or secondary, is it peripheral or not, is it demagogic or not, or is it structural and significant? Secondly, gross capital formation, investment in other terms, is also increasing by 1%. Is this type of data?, is it also an annex data or is it a central data for the recovery of important elements of trend change? At least some who are supposed to be university professors of economics should produce a certain kind of inhibition, a certain type – so to speak – of fear to unravel themselves in well-founded criticisms to say: well, in any case we left a government where these magnitudes were sinking, we legally amnesty bankers of the financial sector who criticized us, the Council of Ministers, not exclusively a fiscal amnesty, no, bankers. There should be more restraint, there should be another kind of reflection, because it has consequences. If that's true, if it's also true that there's a sharp impulse to export growth, one would say: because logically this community... because I'm not going to talk about the whole of Spain anymore, which is being given, but there's no time, I have to talk about everything, but others would say: it's really different the economic management that is being done, because the results are diametrically opposite to the trends that there were since the two-party rule, for example. [[Murmurs.]] Those are diametrically, those are central. Mr. Conde came here to explain economic policy, the situation, that is to say, not to play a leadership role, but rather to the contextual and situational economic situation in this. So what do we have to do from here to the future? And it says: accentuate the elements of competitiveness. I didn't hear Mr. Count say that our competitiveness goes down wages, he never said it; anyone can say it, but he didn't say it. When things go down it may be why you left: a process of obeisance. If you had a complex and responsible idea of what you did, you would realize that the process of indebtedness to the companies of which Mr. Conde now intends to make a financial restructuring for sanitation, using European funds, everything he indicated at the end of the financial structure, EIB loans, etc., was his inheritance. A process that has never been seen in the Greek economy of private indebtedness in a context as you have left it, a totally artificial context. But you speak of the consequences of the causes. The causes say: no, like this... this really... the process of the structural illness of the Greek economy has been with us, but as it is now manifesting itself with the People's Party in the Union and in the state we attribute to them that they are guilty. What's going on? You're the culprit. Is that to make political and economic analysis responsible? Is this to have a concrete historical set-up perspective? Really, how do I understand this proposal that has been made here? Logically, Mr. Conde, neither Mr. Feijóo, neither of them predicted the tariff deficit, none of them said: put you here wind farms, do all the green economy you want to invest in solar panels, photovoltaic panels, that we're going to give you an extraordinary amount above the real market costs guaranteed if you do all that. Total, because the People's Party left that deficit by 200 million euros, it left it. The last government of the PP, tariff deficit: 200 million, practically priceless, right? When the left and the critical groups left us almost 30 billion euros, three times the total budget of the Galician Union. What are they saying? They say: and now you solve this problem, that we're going to give you a critique that they're anti-ecologist, they're people who are making... they're instruments of the big bosses, of the photos, etc. The appearances we already know from Plato that, ultimately, are what they are, simply the shadows of the cave. They are exclusively introduced to that, in the shadows of the chain. Mr. Conde, it seems to me that this kind of audience is important, that kind of document is important, that kind of speech is important. I mean, we're the competitiveness. Here we never say: we go out, we export with low wages. We're trying to always raise wages and improve productivity, because innovation improves, etc. We're taking care of that permanently. People know that this is our model, our conditions and what we're trying to do. And they can interpret, they can make their judgment of why we're not getting everything we're trying to, they can do it, but they know we're doing it, they know we're not going around saying we have to lower the wages, they don't. It's just that we have... that's a critique we say. We have to criticize that, we're not. We're not for other things, etc., etc. We know that in Europe, all over Europe, the whole set of jobs fell and the percentage of industrial production compared to the whole of GDP. And we're trying to do this here, Mr. Conde said: we're going to try that by 2020, within five years, industry represents 20% of GDP, we're going to try to create 50,000 new jobs. We know it's very difficult, we know that there is Europe, and we're going to Europe, too, so that there is a conjunction of all communities, of all countries for this. This isn't exactly the central wave of the new competitiveness strategies, is it? Can anyone make a serious criticism of this? Can anyone say no, because it turns out that on a paper he had put this, the other day he said the other one? Isn't that what's happening? Isn't that what we should say about? Isn't there a new European government? Isn't there a new monetary policy? Isn't there a new policy to encourage structures? When they say, what are you doing for the Juncker Plan, what are they doing? Well, by preparing a lot of things for the Juncker Plan, for increments, for et cetera, etc., for the escape of the crisis and enhancing the exit of the crisis with these policies, with these attitudes and with these convictions. It seems to me that we are acting with professional competence, with technical analysis, with ideas and attitude besides respect, patience, continuity and termination that Mr. Conde in this case is personifying right now, in the same line that Mr. Feijóo does and that we all try to do, without insulting anyone. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u139	Replica from the Economic and Industry advisor, Fr. Francisco Conde López.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u140	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the fact is that I am very sorry for the different speeches made by the opposition, which seems to be not interested in speaking about industrial policy, seems to them not to be interested in talking about the needs of the productive fabric, they are not interested in the fact that they do not agree with the agenda presented by the Government, nor do they, unfortunately, present any kind of alternative. They are logically situations that make the debate very difficult, they pose here different ideas that occur to them, some want to imitate the poets, others simply pose data at random as Mr Fajardo has also moved, and I believe that really, ladies and gentlemen, the Welsh industry deserves a debate with rigour, a serious debate. This government is bringing concrete proposals, and what I would like to know is that they disagree and what their different proposals are. [[Applause]] As you know, this government has not yet approved the Competitiveness Agenda and, as you well know, this Competitiveness Agenda – I said in my intervention – is the Director of Industry Plan, and therefore we are going to realize what the Industrial Policy Act marks. And logically, we will bring the agenda before the Government's approval so that, in fact, in this House we can listen to the different opposition proposals, and therefore we are open to the different positions they have. What I'd like to know is that they disagree. They probably disagree that this government had taken a measure to damage the industrial soil and that, therefore, it dwindles to 50%. They probably disagree, I don't know, that this government is going to use the figure of surface rights to make the most industrial solo available to different entrepreneurs. They probably disagree that Igape is funding up to 40% the cost of the business projects to be developed in this industrial soil. Surely they do not agree to simplify the different regulations and administrative procedures that our employers have to pass. They want to talk about the naval, but they don't talk about that agreement with the technology centres and the sector itself, with the sector itself, to inject EUR 2 million into innovation projects for Industry 4.0 within the naval sector and therefore the shipbuilding sector is more competitive. They do not want to recognize – I deeply regret – that Pemex is actually building two fleets in Galicia amounting to 300 million euros. They still don't want to recognize that reality. They still do not want to recognize the reality that the bipartisan left the naval sector without contracts and that the naval sector is currently developing 1.4 billion euros in different contracts and that therefore the naval sector is in full recovery. [[Murmurs.]] We're talking about emerging sectors. In fact, I spoke here in concrete terms, ladies and gentlemen, I spoke about specific data. I've been talking about the aviation sector and I've been talking about the bet that as a emerging sector has this sector for Galicia. And the aviation sector has a reality and has a potential for this government to bet on. And this government is going to invest 10 million euros in the center of Rozas and push projects into the wake of unmanned planes. Do you not agree?, do you not agree with supporting the aviation sector, do you not agree and do not want to congratulate the news yesterday that Delta Vigo is going to invest 26 million euros to develop industrial projects here in Galicia in the aviation sector? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Isn't that good for them, either? [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, tell me about funding. I have transferred here clearly that this government will offer a new line of collaboration with the European Investment Bank of EUR 135 million to promote access to liquidity and to promote new industrial developments. I spoke here of the Jeremiah funds, a pioneering initiative as well as they know and which is endowed with European funds. And when Mr. Losada talks about six contracts, what he doesn't say is that that line was approved at the end of 2014. And what you don't want to recognize is that this line is currently at the disposal of the small and medium-sized company, currently endowed with EUR 8 million and which is actually enabling the development and consolidation of new industrial projects. And what you don't want to recognize is that this government has granted 730 million euros to help finance our companies both through Igape and through XesGalice. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] What you don't want to recognize is that this government is investing in supporting innovative companies through the i2C Fund or the Xes Innova Fund, which has already mobilised 12 million euros over the past year. When we talk about innovation, they don't want to recognize the data either. I don't know why. I don't know why when this government gives concrete data on support for innovation, which is actually one of the main axes of the Competitiveness Agenda, you don't want to talk and just engage in poetry. Ladies and gentlemen, this government has mobilized over the past four years EUR 260 million in business innovation projects through Interconnecta and Connecta pemes programmes. It's in the Official Journal of Galicia. This government created the figure of the mixed units, and at this moment through that figure companies that previously didn't innovate in Galicia, which had their innovation centers outside Galicia, today are innovating in Galicia, and I'm referring to PSA Peugeot Citroën, I'm referring to Repsol, I'm referring to Natural Gas, I'm referring to the Everis Group, the Copo Group, the Borgwarner Group. Ladies and gentlemen, mobilising EUR 50 million in business innovation. They don't want to talk about that either. And they don't want to talk about innovative public procurement either, they don't want to talk about it. That's right, they recognize us and they give us prizes because this government, through the Health Council, is a pioneer in the development of innovative public procurement. We are developing EUR 112 million in innovative public procurement projects, and Galicia is a pioneer in this type of tool to support innovation. Ladies and gentlemen, when we talk about innovation, this government is talking about realities. I'd like to know that they don't agree with the different innovation programs we're pushing to promote the transfer of knowledge in the Greek economy. And they also talk to me about funding funds within the 2020 horizon. As you know, the Feder Galicia 2014-2020 operational program will devote most of the 883 million euros planned for that framework to the knowledge economy. So it's going to favor a new model based on innovation, based on small and medium-sized companies, based on modernization and based on energy efficiency; four of the ones you regrettably don't want to talk about here. Seven out of ten euros will be devoted to a new economic bet. And from these 883 million euros they know perfectly well that 310 million will be dedicated to supporting our small and medium-sized enterprises. And, of course, this government will devote these funds to supporting innovation, supporting the transfer of knowledge, supporting our pemes and, of course, also supporting the competitiveness of our industry. And I'm sorry they don't want to get into the debate, they don't want to get into the debate that our companies and our productive fabric have to face. I'd like to... and I'm very sorry about that position that Mrs Martínez always has to undervalue our productive fabric, but 33 percent of our GDP is exports. That means our companies sell better than others in international markets and that that percentage of exports is increasing. And that's a clear demonstration that our companies are actually doing well, and therefore this government, which has the responsibility to continue to support through different instruments of innovation, to finance its internationalization. And, ladies and gentlemen, I'm also told about the energy sector. I don't know why the bipartisan is still talking about the wind sector, I don't know because they haven't apologized about how the wind sector left here in Galicia yet. I deeply regret that even the PSdEG does not want to talk about how the energy sector left in Spain. And now it turns out that the energy deficit is something that was going through. And that when they leave the Government in Madrid, they leave it with 26 billion euros of energy deficit, which we have to pay among all Spaniards. And now it turns out that the situation in the wind sector actually derived from the energy reform that the Central Government had to face is a coincidence. No, you know they've made an entirely messy energy policy, an energy policy that led to a tariff deficit of 26,000 million euros, and you know perfectly well that it required...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u141	Mr. Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u142	...reform the energy sector situation. And, of course, – this has already been recognised in this House – has affected the development of the wind sector. But still, you know perfectly well that in the various measures that have been put in place by this government, the wind sector continues to develop. More than 85% of the different megawatts of the wind competition follow their processing, and there are eleven parks that already have administrative authorization, eleven parks, which will account for an initial investment of already 385 million euros. And indeed, they don't want to talk about either that the central government through the 500 megawatt auction is going to give the wind sector an opportunity to develop towards the future. And, of course, you have no doubt that Galicia, this government, will do everything possible so that the wind sector can continue to develop. And, ladies and gentlemen, I am repeatedly told by the different groups of the execution of the Igape. I deeply regret it because in an intentional way they don't want to move what the reality is. And it's a recurring theme, but you know perfectly well that if this government applied the same criteria that the bipartite applied, the execution of the Igape would be 90%. Because you know perfectly well that from the budgetary point of view you, the bipartite, counted how published and adjudicated were executed, and we're applying the criterion is to reflect how executed the actually executed. That's the difference. If you want to be serious about the budget execution, we'll talk. And if they want to talk seriously, they should recognize it, they don't want to recognize it, that many of the aids that Igape grants are multi-years and that they are therefore paid at the time of the end of the investment, but they don't want to talk about it either. Just like they don't want to talk when we talk about execution, that you left the execution of the technology background at 5%, and it turns out we run 100%, that's not what they want to talk about either. [[Applause]] Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that industry, our industrial fabric, deserves a rigorous debate, with concrete proposals that this government brings to this House so that, in fact, you can move your approach and, of course, we are doing it from realism, and we are doing it even though Mr Sánchez intends to transfer a totally distorted image from Galicia, which often seems to be alien to this reality. I regret that it is not about the efforts being made by entrepreneurs, innovation efforts, internationalisation efforts. Indeed, Mrs. Adam, I've already transferred the specific data from the aviation sector's bet, I've actually transferred the entire bet on innovation and funding, and you know perfectly well, Mrs. Adam, that the fleets are being built, just have to go to the steps of Navantia and the steps of Barreras and you'll see that those fleets are being built. There's actually a clear bet for the agri-food sector, there's no doubt about it. This government has never rejected the bet, not only by the agri-food sector but also by the agri-food industry. This government is supporting all the agri-food industry projects that are developing and want to be promoted here in Galicia. And, Mr. Losada, I think I should leave the theory; theory is very good at college. I understand perfectly that you want to move the theoretical models here, but the reality of industry in our country is a reality that needs to be treated with a little more rigor, because you come here to teach photographs and talk about poetry I believe that, frankly, industrial policy and industry do not deserve it, Your Honor, you don't deserve it. And in any case, logically, Mr. Losada, you from a media point of view, which they like enormously, they said they had a master plan of industry, remember, weeks ago. It seems that they have now forgotten that content, perhaps they have simply the cover of the Socialist Party's Master Plan of Industry, and now you're talking about poetry, talk about the different books you see in certain photos and come here not to talk about rigour but simply about generalities. [[Applause]] In any case, ladies and gentlemen, during my intervention, I tried, logically, to move the concrete proposal that this government brings in on industrial policy, an industry-directed plan that contains the requirements of the Industrial Policy Act and, of course, a Competitiveness Agenda, Galicia Industry 4.0, which tries under the principles of public-private collaboration to make available to entrepreneurs the different instruments that enable them to gain their competitiveness. Because they don't forget that our industry has to compete with the best, and the best are in international markets. That means having the tools that can actually allow you to compete, and our entrepreneurs are aware of competition and export indicators clearly reflect it. And so this government – and I finish – is prepared to talk about industrial policy permanently, because we, of course, can tell them that we are committed to our industry, that we are committed to industrial workers and, of course, we are committed to recovering the starting situation that some have left in the past. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u143	Special round of clarifications. Joint Group, Mrs. Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u144	Well, Counselor, I believe that the next time instead of asking to appear before the plenary, you should present an interpellation to the opposition, it would be much more effective from then on and we would all answer it. Look, if you don't know what kind of approaches the opposition to this schedule is because you don't listen to the opposition, because you didn't have any interest in listening to it. And what if it stays out of place and, of course, I believe that up to minimum parliamentary education and parliamentary courtesy is that he comes here to tell us that right now here in your voice we tell him what the alternatives to the opposition are. Please don't consider us, but at least they respect the minimum. And if they really want to sit down, because it is true that this deserves a serious debate. I said more than once that we need parliamentary agreements to maintain government over who is government, at least a few minimums, such as the forest, industrial sector... there must be minimum agreements in education, health, but you refuse to reach any agreement with the opposition. And I'm telling you what I'm against. I am opposed to the fact that it is unclear to me what is the employment policy of the People's Party, of industrial employment. Until the 1970s – here in the state a little later, in the 1980s – the industrial advancement, technological progression led to better workers and workers in their lives, social improvements, wage improvements, day-to-day deductions. From the 1980s on, and now with this crisis, technological improvement only serves to destroy jobs, reduce wages and impoverish the working class. I'd like you to talk about the job and quality of those 50,000 jobs you promise. I don't know if you're talking about 50,000 full-time jobs with decent wages and qualified training, I don't know exactly what you're talking about, but if that's the case, those 50,000 jobs, of course, would give rise to a lot more. So I'd like you to explain where those 50,000 jobs are. I also tell you what I have against a dual training, which has no limits and which can become what they are becoming and what practices have already become in companies: free labour that replaces employees and staff workers. He's saying the opposition doesn't defend the naval. I am that your interest in the naval has never seen him in this Parliament. To start with, they went olympically through the Ferrol floating board, and they keep going through the dry board. You just decided that the naval disappears from the board schedule, and now you come here saying that the responsibility is the opposition, that it does not defend the naval. But you defend measures such as, for example, the hourly hyperflexibility of Citroën, which has days and weeks that the day is ten or eleven hours and then closes other days depending on business interests. That maxiflexibility is what you applaud, like the double salary scale of Citroën. And I brought an initiative to this Parliament and the People's Party voted against telling Citroën that he had stopped encouraging auxiliary automotive companies to settle in Portugal leading to production. And you argued that Citroën had asked the auxiliary companies to leave for Portugal. Yes, sir, it's in the Diary of Sessions and it's all recorded, luckily. That was the position of the People's Party. But also, when he talks about training, he doesn't talk about the training of workers already active. How are these active workers going to join this new industry? Apparently, you're going to do this and tomorrow a terrible industry will appear here. Because, if there's anything right, it has nothing to do with reality the way you set up here.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u145	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u146	It's an agenda that completely mixes micro-enterprises with pemes, with large companies, with Industry 4.0, with training... i.e. a merino churro that serves only to reach where this agenda really wants to come from, which is that, at the moment of the election, the Junta present an industrial program in the face of the misfortune of industrial unemployment and the destruction of industrial employment in our country. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u147	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. Mrs. Adam Villamarín.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u148	Thank you, President. Counsellor, today you have asked us to be strict about the opposition and concrete proposals, then, several questions. You want the collaboration of the opposition parliamentary groups in this Competitiveness Agenda. Present it by registrar in this Parliament. Let's get the document. We'll kill him in committee. We will have a deadline to submit amendments or motions for resolutions or any mechanism that is being established. We fully agree that this is the case and that it is then debated in committee or in full its final approval. But you won't expect that in ten minutes, five more replicas, we betray the proposals in writing, we can discuss them one by one in each of their axes, and then they will be voted on. It is the normal way of functioning in this House with regard to those plans or proposals that the Government is interested in being debated in depth. So I ask you, once you get out of this audience, to ask people – well, today is the evening, tomorrow morning, Wednesday morning – of your advisors to immediately register this Competitiveness Agenda – which seems to have passed through the board of assembly – for that first design. Well, you are bringing this first design to this Parliament. We will put forward the proposals and we will be able to debate them one at a time. Then you, with regard to the proposals we make to you, can disqualify them too, or not approve them, one by one. Because, of course, we're talking about you coming here and not giving us any data. Specific questions as to what the board is going to do during the different years by 2020, neither do we, with which, we have to do a positive or random analysis. See, in the Competitiveness Agenda, Plisan appears as a basic development axis of the industrial and logistics sector in the south of Pontevedra province. Of course, speaking of Plisan like this, calmly, on that agenda, and that in giving us a laugh, you can't ask us, Counselor. From Plisan, who has – we don't remember – 15, 18 years late?, how many? And you're just talking on the agenda of your connection to the bus. On Plisan we would have not a three-minute reply debate, but an hour debate. Therefore, the decision is yours, Counselor. Do you really want us to work on the Competitiveness Agenda, which you now say is a master plan? Register it, and within the regulatory deadlines, we will soon submit proposals to it. As we put it, by the way, in every plenary session and in committee on various issues: from the industrial sector, small businesses, medium-sized enterprises and large enterprises, or on the financial sector. We've been presenting different initiatives, and I still don't remember any particulars about the industrial sector that had been approved, has always been disqualified. And a question already to be finished. Look, Galician emigrated about 8% of the researchers, and there's no innovation without research. And if prepared people go to research outside, they'll innovate outside. In the Spanish state, 85% of research in innovation, in R & D+i, was done in Madrid, Catalonia, Basque Country, Valencia and Andalusia, by that order. And the intensity of innovation: Basque Country, Navarre, Valencia, Castela-León and Catalonia, by that order. Galicia is out, it doesn't exist. There's no such thing as innovation or research in the Spanish state; let's not mention the comparisons that you're making here. So what's going to be the research and innovation effort that Galicia is going to make in the rest of the legislation and in that Horizon 2020, beyond the empty words of RIS3, of the Competitiveness Agenda and Industry 4.0? Today is the second or third time – I don't remember it – the myth of the cave is quoted. It's a classic, a constant, in the morning sessions, in the afternoon sessions and in general. And I almost feel obliged to talk about the myth of the cave, because I want to remind you that it wasn't a problem of knowledge, Plato was talking about the myth of the cave in the famous Republic about the constitution of a more just state. Because, of course, the way out of the shadows was to have a sense of good, which was the idea of justice. The world we are in is a totally unfair world, where the shadows are what predominate, but also in their economic conception, which is shaped into empty words that lead us to is that in Industry 4.0 the workers and the workers cover half that they paid six years ago, and many are almost going to work to be able to eat. That's the reality. The truth is to come here and quote Plato...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u149	Thank you very much, Mrs. Adam.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u150	...only leads us to one thing: the injustice and the shadows are growing, not the idea of good. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u151	Parliamentary Group of the Left Galician Alternative. You have the word of Mr. Anton Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u152	Counselor, you have learned quite well from Mr. Feijóo. He learned to lie and not to get colored, a very important feature, seems to be, to survive in politics. You ask for alternatives. I will not fall into the trap of what I have defined – but not by insulting, but by defining with a word the closest what Mr. Feijóo and his Government is – as trappings of trileros. Ask for alternatives and we've given them. Of course we give them! We're following them, and seriously, in addition. Another thing is that you don't care about the real alternatives to this country. I ask you not to lie, Counselor. He says they give random data. The data I tell you are the story of the failure of a incapable government that still betrays this country and its citizens. The data I say are – and if I don't deny it – the story of that failure, Counselor. I've made a balance ever since you came here, and as we are now, in several data that I think are important to people's lives. I talked about wind, and you couldn't say here how many megawatts were installed in 2014 and how many were installed in 2009. If you want an honest debate, come here and have an honest debate, and say how many megawatts were installed in 2009 and how many are installed in 2014; or say how many megawatts are installed in the wind competition. And don't lie to say that 83% of the megawatts are still in the contest. Look, it's just that going on in the contest costs nothing. Natural Gas, thanks to his amnesty, gave up 41% of the megawatts, but the rest – what you're saying in the contest – has already said it freezes to new orders, right? Not a single megawatt, of a model that, by the way, we don't share, but it's their failure. You're talking about the dairy sector and what they did with the dairy food. A shame, a waste of public money spent in caciquil form. With two leaders of the People's Party placed by you, making decisions with you, and at the end 80 workers on the street, debts to the gain-winners, cooperatives to break, etc. They haven't even asked for forgiveness or apology for that outcome yet. Industrial employment, Counsellor, is it to say random data that you've destroyed more than 20% of industrial employment, yes or no? Innovation, Counsellor, is it to say random data that in 2009 1% of GDP was invested and that in 2014 0.86% was invested, Counsellor?, is it to random data? When you talk about funding, why don't you talk about your management with savings boxes, or are they anecdotes? Or was there no Greek financial system when you arrived? And now what is it, Counselor? What financial system do we have? Or is that not your responsibility, of the German government? Or haven't you guys destroyed a job? Because you always talk about the bipartite, but the data objectively were much better when the bipartite came out today. You've destroyed thousands and thousands of jobs. You have expelled researchers, hundreds of researchers, from this country, and come to talk about talent! Where's the talent? I'm not talking to you anymore about statistics, we all know where people are ready. You don't have to apply your knowledge here in any sector! The people who study, the researchers, have to get out because of the lack of opportunities in this country. [[Applause]] Just like that lack of opportunity leads us to a demographic crisis without a comparison: 17,000 Welsh and Welsh less in 2014 because fewer people are born than they die and because they go more than they come, and that's symptomatic of a country that doesn't have any opportunities, has no industry and has no job opportunities for people. The naval, Counselor, yes, the naval, where are the 1,400 jobs that said they were going to create with Pemex contracts? According to the employer's data, they don't even reach 300. Is it true or is it random, Counselor? Unmistak me if it's true or not.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u153	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u154	Don't take the hair to citizenship. They don't take the hair for us, but above all, they don't take the hair for citizenship. Recovery scenario, innovation. But what innovation do you promote? What was your innovation effort? If you yourself violate the strategic plans, which we've already lost track of those strategic plans where you make the most effort is to think about the name, because the rest of you don't make any effort or make realistic forecasts. You guys make random forecasts! And in the Strategic Plan 2010-2014...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u155	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u156	...at this moment, before starting with new fables, Counselor, they had to have done an analysis of why the forecasts of this strategic plan 2010-2014 failed so sharply. And if they didn't fail so sharply, then come here and deny me the data they're giving you. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u157	Thank you very much. Socialist Group. Mr. Losada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u158	Thank you, Madam President. Counselor, I must be a romantic, you know, claiming the transformative role of poetry. Gabriel Celaya said that poetry is a weapon loaded into the future. That future that you are unable to find for the Galician industry, that future. Because is it true or not true what the AGE spokesman said, that 25% of industrial employment has been lost and 20% of industrial GDP has been lost since Mr Feijóo is President of the Galician Union? Yes or no? [[Murmurs.]] It's easy to answer, yes or no? I repeat again – I don't know if the President's time is off: that 25% of industrial employment has been destroyed and industrial GDP has been reduced by 20%. [[Murmurs.]] And by the way, what exactly does it mean to reduce employment by 25% and GDP by only 20%? Of course, there is greater competitiveness, the highest level of unemployment and lower wages. That's the scheme, Counselor! Just one question, Mr. Arias. Look, for socialists to talk about wages, talk about Spain's lowest pensions, talk about homes that all their members are unemployed or talk about homes that don't receive any income, it's not a minor matter. I find it insulting to tell you here that we're talking about minor issues. What we're trying to do is not fool with absolutely empty words, that's what we're trying, Mr. Arias! [[Murmurs.]] He also spoke of the shadows of the cave. I don't know if it meant platonic or extreme right, I don't know what it meant. That was probably where I had to have technically aquilated a little more, because I was left with it... finally, I didn't get too clear. Counsellor, the truth is that you... the issue of the execution of the budget... It gives me the feeling that it should not be so bad the budget execution system of that vile two-party government, because, Counsellor, in the data of the Galician Union, beyond that technical question that you say, part 732.05, which, as you are sure you know, is the Igape, means – thank you, President – that there are outstanding payment outstandings 17.8 million euros – of 82–, and only obligations recognised by 27. I mean, the execution is 33, and of these 27 they only paid 10 million euros. And if not, Counsellor, it is the photocopy of the data provided by the intervention of the Galician Council to this Parliament. Look, if it's wrong, fix it. If it's wrong, fix it. If there is any reading that can be done by this sheet that escapes me, I would like to thank the particular class. Thank you for the special class! But here it puts, exactly, living credit, 82 million euros; recognized bonds, 27.6 million euros, and payments made, 17 million euros. That's what you put in this sheet. I don't know if you've changed the methodology, or if you move to another virtual reality of running 5.0, but that's the data. And I'm not surprised, Counselor, because it's intolerable – you said here that the last Board of Directors approved the collection of foreign investments, 2 million euros – that two million euros are given to businesses when there are qualified technicians in the Igape. They're making a controlled flight of the Igape, and you know it perfectly. Explain here why he renounces Welsh civil service technicians and hires companies, explain. And it also explains how a high office, appointed by the government Feijóo, says at a conference that subsidies are the cancer of the economy and is not stopped immediately. Explain that, because that's like a surgeon says that surgery in the surgery kills patients, exactly the same thing. And that gentleman is still the director of the internationalization area of Igape, only of the internationalization area of Igape. That's how I'm not surprised by the data of internationalization, I'm not surprised!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u159	Go finish, Mr. Losada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u160	I'm going to finish, Madam President, is that Mr Tellado is quite behind me because I see him quite interactive. I can look anywhere, I suppose, right? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Good.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u161	So you don't wake up, Mr. Losada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u162	Exports in the year 2014 in Galicia decreased by 3.2 % and in Spain rose by 2.5%. Is it true or not? Say that. Is it true or not? The second worst data from all autonomous communities. And by the way, is it really going to increase 25% of the foreign capital entrance? But if in 2014 they entered 50 million euros. We are therefore talking about 0.29% of Spain's total!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u163	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u164	Really two million euros for companies, why? For milongas, for advertising and for propaganda. And since you're so precise and so technical, I regret: in memory, volume 2, of the 2015 budgets, the 2015 target box per program, insert here, in this document approved four months ago in this Parliament, that report that you put on the website.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u165	Finish, please, Mr. Losada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u166	I think it's pretty easy. And by the way, I think you're quite responsible for it...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u167	Thank you very much, Mr. Losada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u168	...in this opposition group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u169	People's Group. Mr. Arias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u170	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Economics and Industry Counsellor. Well, Mr. Losada, I don't know what level you have to say so you won't feel offended. What level of critical minimalism needs to be exercised here to make you consider yourself insulted. Because you......sorry, just said... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u171	Mr. Fajardo!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u172	that my criticism seemed insulting to him.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u173	Excuse me a moment, Mr Arias. Mr. Fajardo, please... Mr. Fajardo! [[Mr. Fajardo Recouso pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Mr. Arias, continue, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u174	So the question is next. When we make a criticism to say, they're not talking, they're not technically recognizing – to make a new kind of policy – that there's a very important shift from economic recession to growth elements. It's an important critique, and I say, you don't see the fundamentals and you make secondary criticisms. It's critical. We socialists are talking about wages, pensions and income. I mean, as if I had made a moral criticism of his things. But I tell him that wages, pensions and income depend on the growth of an economy; they are dependent variables of the other. I mean, you're not seeing that exactly what you talk about income growth is exactly what it depends on. That we can't fix, you can't look at from the government, you can't pay, you can't. It is not possible to decide as you wish, it is not possible to decide the level of unemployment in this way, by decree. You can't decide on your income. It is that the Socialist Party, precisely, had the possibility of managing the economic crisis in Galicia and Spain, was separated by the voters; clearly by incapacity. There's something I don't think you can't understand about the attitude of the Galician People's Party. I repeat, Galicia. Because you can't answer everything from Galicia. There's one thing we share, sometimes we call it the two of economic history. Donald McCloskey liked me – now Deirdre, who made a change of sex – that genius of industrial revolution, for example, Christopher Hill – who will obviously know him – had something common, said: what were the characteristic elements of when important economic changes occurred in history? By the attitude of economic actors. Not for figures, for attitudes. Because they were attentive to changes, just price changes. How is coal made with that? Are you talking to a mill like this or another? That's what our Greek people do, that's what Mr. Conde said, who said, here we're paying attention to intelligent, attentive and motivating attitudes, which are always exporting. And then we say, attitude, and the basic idea model, we have to focus precisely on innovation, etc. Mr. Sánchez always, systematically, starts calling us liars and triplers. Yes, tell us that we learn to lie and that we are a bunch of triellers; always, systematically. He can't possibly be wrong. Don't come in. Don't think about it. There is a kind of systematic intellectual narcissism by this lord, with respect to a second face of Jano which is aggressive, insulting, permanent manifest. This can't be allowed, because you systematically incur the fallacy of simultaneity. Let me tell you that because you have to say it. He doesn't think analytically well. He says, this thing happens when this one is; then I'll assign it to this one. He doesn't think about the causes and effects. It doesn't have that concept of elementary and rigorous analytical logic. I mean, did Mr Feijó provoke the economic crisis in Galicia, when he did it, why mechanisms? Tell him. Did you cause all our problems? The matter of the naval. Don't you know that those who preceded, the nationalists and socialists, left this execution through the passage of the German Government with zero naval contracts? Naval contracts, sky! Don't they know? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] So, this kind of thing...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u175	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u176	It seems to me that, in any case, we can... I don't like insulting arrogance. No, I don't like it. Well, no, because I didn't tell them any kind of disqualification, none. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Not even Mr. Conde, who patiently rewrited all the proposals of the plan by realising, from the important industrial floor, the financing of the Igape, etc., the naval plans, the aeronautics. [[Murmurs.]] Specific things, programmes, but with a general model which, in fact, can be said to be competitive in the future. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u177	Thank you very much. You have the floor to close the debate, Mr. Francisco Conde's economic and industrial adviser.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u178	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen. Thank you very much for your contributions on this replica turn. I was actually beginning my intervention with the desire to carry out a constructive and positive dialogue at this meeting, above political differences, and above all that was useful for our business fabric. The truth is, many times, throughout their different interventions, I had the impression that I didn't get it. But what is true is that this Government of what you want to talk about is the future of Galicia, you want to talk about the industrial future and you want to logically talk about Galicia of all. Surely we could have discussed the nuances, we could have even, ladies and gentlemen, exchanged the T-shirts, but the opposing groups of this House do not seem to want the dialogue. I, Mrs Martínez, appear on behalf of the Government, and on behalf of my own responsibility I have asked for an audience, Mrs Adán, to actually debate in this House the content of the Galicia Industry 4.0 Competitiveness Agenda. Logically, I've been careful, and I'll be careful, all the closets that you want to move me if you have criteria, because, Mrs. Martínez, many times it seems just that you, from the Mixed Group, have no criteria. This agenda -- I said in my speech -- was in line with the industry. It's an agenda of industry, it's an agenda of companies, of all kinds of companies, of clusters, of technology centers and of the different agents with which we are implementing all the measures contained in this plan. You're telling me about the government's interest in the naval sector. I remind you that, indeed, this government was the first one to work to defend a limited situation for the naval sector, with a file in the tax read that opened by the Commissioner of the Socialist Party, Mr Almunia, and it was this government, in collaboration with the Central Government, which actually allowed Galicia and the Greek naval sector today to be a reality. It was this government that was found without contracts in the naval sector, and finally, in fact, it was able to reverse the situation and now Navantia has contracts for more than 800 million euros and the naval sector has contracts for more than 1.4 billion euros. You don't want to talk about the competitiveness of the naval sector. The naval sector, logically, will have to be competitive to the extent that it knows how to win contracts for its competition. That means investing in innovation, it means investing in competitiveness, and logically this government is working with the sector in the different tools. This government is also working, Your Honor, on the diversification of the naval sector, because we understand that, in fact, the naval sector has an opportunity not only in civil construction, in military construction and in the area of repairs, but has a reality why it has to fight for diversification through the offshore wind sector and related sectors. And, of course, this government is busy so that, in fact, the naval sector can be consolidated and the different workers can reverse and it can be a much more solid reality and with more workload, which is what the naval sector needs right now. But a workload that will be won through competitiveness, through innovation, through different international tenders and also through, ladies and gentlemen, the diversification itself. I am very sorry that you said, Mrs Martínez, that this government supports the relocation of the automotive sector. I'm deeply sorry. I don't think it's fair to say that assurance in this House about the Greeks themselves. But in any case, what I should know – and I remind you – is that this government is supporting the automotive sector. That the automotive sector has a concrete reality for the future thanks to the adjudication of the K9 van, which was recently done in the Vigo factory. That this government is supporting Citroën, it is supporting the automotive sector, the cluster and the technology centre of CTAG through concrete investments in innovation, in particular by supporting the joint unit, which is allowing to develop innovation projects between the CTAG centre and Citroën itself. I remind you that this government will continue to support the sector of the component industry and that it will therefore continue to work for competitiveness, for the development of new industrial projects here, at the Vigo factory, and, therefore, for the automotive industry to remain what it is, which is an international benchmark. Logically, thanks for doing the component industry and for doing the same for PSA-Peugeot-Citroën. Mrs. Adam, you tell me different things, because the truth is that at no time did I want to enter the real content of the Agenda that I presented. It is true that the BNG proposes different proposals, even closing companies. Of these proposals the BNG raises many, many. In any case, we are not going into this controversy, but indeed the different initiatives of the BNG are similar to certain countries that actually promote public credit institutions, etc. I don't know how they really want to finance, surely, with AGE's support, with different initiatives at the international level, but that's not the reality, which we've already told you clearly here, is not the model of the Government. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Murmurs.]] So if you want to insist on proposals that already have an answer, I think that doesn't lead us anywhere, I don't think you deserve this debate in this House. In any case, as you know, in the field of innovation there's a clear bet on business innovation; there's a clear bet on mixed units; there's a clear bet on innovative public purchasing, and that's constantly reflecting on investments and budgets through the Galician Innovation Agency. By the way, Mr Losada, you know perfectly well that the Director of Innovation has brought the strategy of specialization to debate in the corresponding committee. Mr Sánchez, I am very concerned about industrial fabric, and I am, logically, deeply concerned with all the issues affecting the industrial sector. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I'm sorry you're talking about triellers. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I don't know why you want to do this kind of thinking. In any case, when you tell me about the wind competition, you know perfectly well that 83% of the megawatts being processed are linked to commitments in the development of industrial investment and employment plans. Therefore, you know perfectly well that staying in the wind competition means to continue investing and creating jobs. There are EUR 850 million in investments and more than 3,000 jobs that have been created from the industrial plans of the wind competition. And he keeps investing, he keeps creating jobs. Therefore, the wind competition is a reality not only because they continue to process the different megawatts, but because they continue to invest and create jobs linked to these industrial plans. Tell me about the innovative talent. You know that this government bets on talent and knows that this government has launched a program, the Opportunius Programme, to actually give the best researchers, both Greek and non-Greek, so they can develop their investments in Galicia. And you know perfectly well – you want to hide it from this House – that through the Opportunius Program one of the leading Welsh researchers, Diego Martínez, will investigate here, in Galicia, thanks to the gambling of the Galician Union and the contract that will be made through the Galician Innovation Agency and the University of Santiago itself. So this government is making all the tools available to our researchers first so that they can develop their innovation projects, and secondly, so that those projects can actually be developed here, too, in Galicia. So a bet without cracks, lordship, by the Greek talent, by the Welsh innovation, and logically, because here, in Galicia, you can develop these kinds of projects. Mr. Losada, stay anchored in poetry, we're still anchored in industry. I deeply regret that you want to come here permanently talking about poetry. I'll keep talking about industry, I'll keep talking about industry, Your Honor. [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] In any case, Your Honor, I didn't say at any time that the execution of the bipartite was wrong, I didn't say so. What I said was simply that the criteria adopted in the bipartite to quantify the execution and the criteria applied in this government are different. So I didn't say at any time that the bipartite didn't adequately account for the execution data, what I'm telling you and I repeat to you is that, simply, the criteria are different and therefore not comparable. So what I'm telling you is that, if this government had applied the same criteria that applied the bipartite – which I do not question at any time – at all, simply the execution of the Igape would be more than 90%. You know, and you want to move here a situation that is not real, which is that the Igape is developing its work, is promoting economic dynamization and is making it available to the Greek entrepreneurs, the Greek pemmes, the different instruments through deep-lost subsidies, of course, and also through funding. So across the different lines, Igape will continue to work, and we will continue to try to make Galicia attractive to international investors, of course. That's why we'll support ourselves on a line we understand that it can allow international investors to invest here, in Galicia, under the same conditions and with the same instruments that we make available to small and medium-sized Greek companies, the same conditions. But, of course, this clear government that bets on foreign investments with a vocation of stability, with a view to creating jobs. I simply refer to the examples, I remit myself to PSA-Peugeot-Citroën, I send myself to Alcoa, I send myself to Nestlé and I send myself to all the foreign companies that are investing here with a vocation of permanence, creating quality employment, and, of course, that's also the wager of this government. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, the Galicia-Industry Competitiveness Agenda 4.0 aims to be a road map, it aims to be an instrument... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u179	Mr. Gallego, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u180	...planning, a strategy tool with the various initiatives that we want to make – and that we are already making – available to small and medium-sized companies and the whole industrial fabric of Galicia. Of course, the foundations of growth and the foundations of competitiveness have no doubt that they are in Industry 4.0 and in the development of the intelligent factory. You don't seem to want to see it. At no time did they want to talk about Industry 4.0, but I do transfer that to them. That's the reality our productive fabric has to compete with. That's the reality that our industry has to compete in international markets every day. And, of course, this government will be working and supporting the productive fabric, and will be supporting it thanks to the various innovation instruments, establishing, of course, new production formulas; supporting traditional sectors and supporting emerging sectors, such as the aeronautics sector or the biotechnology sector; facilitating more economic industrial soil; promoting, ladies and gentlemen, a larger size of our companies that make us more competitive in international markets; ultimately enhancing public-private cooperation, entrepreneurship, and bringing knowledge of models and technologies to the smart factory, especially to our small and medium-sized enterprises. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, through this Galicia-Industry Competitiveness Agenda 4.0 we want to reinvent our industry, we want to develop a new productive model that is more competitive, that is more innovative, that is more international and that is more sustainable; that ultimately boosts the growth of the Greek economy and the creation of quality jobs. We are many, ladies and gentlemen, who are convinced that Galicia is prepared to take on this challenge, and, of course, since the Greek Government we will do everything possible to achieve it with the guide of the Galicia-Industry Competitiveness Agenda 4.0. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u181	Thank you, Counselor. We continue the development of the agenda with point 3 of motions. G.P. motion. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr. José Luis Méndez Romeu, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in connection with tax fraud
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u182	This motion was tabled amendments to the Joint Group and to the Parliamentary Group of the Glaga Alternative of the Left.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u183	To formulate the motion, Mr. Méndez Romeo, of the Socialist Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u184	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, when we discussed the question relating to this motion, tax fraud was undoubtedly a current problem. Today, 15 days later, we are overwhelmed by the magnitude and defamation of fraud by relevant government personnel. Because Mr. Rat's performance, first escaping taxes and then welcoming a friendly government tax amnesty, with the aggravating of being nothing less than the economic vice president of the Government and the banker of reference thanks precisely to his friendship with the Government, scandalizes society. It is obvious that the Government runs away from any responsibility, it is the same attitude as Mr. Bárcenas, administrator and collector of the People's Party and again the attitude of the People's Party; fled from reality, no explanation. It is logical, Mr. Bárcenas, on behalf of his leaders and chiefs, was dedicated to the illegal financing of the large-scale People's Party, and a part of this was directly reimbursed to the Government's own members in the form of surpluses. It is also scandalous, unlawfully, that persons like Mr Trillo do an interpretation but leave the system of incompatibilities to advise those who will soon benefit from arranged contests. Will it consist of counseling, precisely, in the design of these contests? Will it consist of the trafficking of influences or any other of the figures that have been criminally persecuted? He hasn't resigned yet, but we know that there is no documentary trace of that counseling. Do you know your lords today any economic activity in this country that lacks any support and is so well-remunerated? Is it a prize, a bite, a gift, or something more than an advice? Or will it be the work of commissioner or intermediary? Will it be an emul of Pachi Lucas or vice versa? Are we again in front of someone who participates in irregular operations with the government's direct knowledge? Because the government's ominous silence adds concern. This government shipwrecks, one day itself and the other, in corruption scandals, in the spoliation of state institutions. I understand that their work is accumulated, but democracy is to render accounts, to give explanations. There is a political pattern in all these cases: the full assumption of immunity. Stand aside from the rules that govern the common mortals. It's the attitude that all the people involved have in common. This group denounced in 2012 the fiscal amnesty that you approved nothing else to reach the government. So we said it was unfair, ineffective and improvised. It was unfair because the vast majority of citizens paid in time and form, and you allowed them to regulate with a 10% fine. And if the capitals had been out since before 2008, 10% fine on interest accrued between 2008 and 2010. It was ineffective. You announced that they would raise 2,500 million euros, and the real collection was 1,200; less than half. And it was improvised because, after the actual initial decree, they realized that there was no legal coverage and they had to modify the Criminal Code and still take advantage again of the processing of the real trade liberalization decree. Today we have to add, in addition, that it was immoral, because to equate the envelopes in B that perceived the government's high office with the donations to Caritas, in addition to being an insult to non-governmental organizations, means to put on the same plane corruption and the fight against poverty that generates the government's action. The tax policy you apply has many shades. You came to the government and started a wave of massive cessations at the National Anti-Fraud Office. They were denounced at that time, we said so. Then they continued with the Tax Agency and the delegation of large contributors. They wanted to double the autonomy and professionalism of officials directly responsible for combating fraud. What do you tell us about the CIS, for example? For it tells us that in Spain 80% of citizens now consider taxation not to be fair, that we don't all pay proportionally to our capacity. This is because citizens understand what's going on. With you the tax pressure on employees, self-employed and middle-class has historical records, while the great fortunes, in the last fiscal reform, are clearly benefited; without forgetting that they are precisely the great fortunes, such as multinational companies, those that have the ability to use the techniques of engineering and tax elusion. The motion we present today consists of three points. In the first one, it proposes a set of initiatives to be carried out by the State Administration in relation to the independence of the Tax Agency, the publicity of fraud, the modification of the real types by which large companies and large estates pay taxes, to bring real types closer to nominal types, and also to inform banking entities more thoroughly about individuals and companies that have accounts in tax havens. In addition, we propose economic compensation to the Autonomous Community for the possible loss of income resulting from tax fraud. Secondly, and even if it is symbolic, we propose that Parliament rejects the fiscal amnesty of the year 2012, true clause of the rule of law to safeguard the friends of the Government. It's a political statement we are demanding from this House in front of the citizens, and it's even a democratic requirement. By the way, this group will demand at the appropriate place, which are the General Courts, the publicity of the list of 700 fraudsters listed on the Falcian list. Thirdly, the motion proposes actions by the Galega Tax Agency. Among other things, we are calling for an analysis of tax fraud in Galicia, developed by experts, to be based on a strategy for the future. It is also a multi-annual plan to combat fraud that can be debated and enriched with Parliament's contribution. And in the same way, we propose the increased means and staff of the Galician Tax Agency to increase the annual number of tax inspections. Ladies and gentlemen, this group knows that there are areas of tax fraud of a difficult solution. For example, by its own nature, illegal activities; or, for example, activities where the cost of regularization would give rise to much higher prices than today's. But if it is possible to act in the rest of the cases, which represent, however, several points of the German GDP. We are therefore faced with a situation in which most of the House, and therefore the Government, has to choose between fighting fraud or continuing to favor fraudulent behaviour. In this country, unfortunately, it has consolidated the expression "capitalism of friends" to spell out, to name, the convolence between entrepreneurs and political leaders, in which these – political leaders – facilitate the business of those in the prejudice of free market rules. It's an important political problem, and the legal responses to measure, as fiscal amnesty has been, have done nothing but add risks to that relationship and create a temptation of fraud in the public office itself, as we are now checking. The governments of Spain and Galicia are not being sufficiently diligent to correct this situation. On the contrary, they are protecting their own and hindering their information. This motion therefore pursues a more modern, more appropriate and effective framework for the fight against corruption.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u185	Thank you very much, Mr. Méndez Romeo. Joint Parliamentary Group. Mrs. Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u186	On account of the interpeleration of this motion, in the previous plenary session, I already refer to the propaganda of the Government of Greece with various announcements of transparency and fight against fraud, and the contradiction between what the director of the Tax Agency, Ulpiano Villanueva, said in his appearance in this House, and the reality of the 16 million that the Tax Agency of Galicia has collected in its inspection activities. As soon as it is checked, there is evidence of the lies and consent of the fraud that lies behind Mr. Núñez Feijóo's propaganda. I am not going to insist on the complicity of the PP governments with tax fraud, which leads to claim to the trade union of the Fatenda technicians the reorganization of the State Tax Agency so that I can make every effort to pursue the fraud of multinationals and large companies, instead of concentrating 80% of the resources to investigate self-government, micro-enterprises, Pemes and employees. It's enough to remember that the most serious estimates say that the economy submerged in Galicia moves about 4,700 million a year. The trade union of technicians of the Ministry of Business ensures that the Spanish State is the State of the European Union with less resources to combat tax fraud: one farm worker per 1,958 inhabitants, compared to 1 per 942 inhabitants in France, 1 per 740 in Germany or 1 per 574 in Luxembourg. The great words and propaganda gestures of the People's Party against Fraud have no credibility in the evidence of the refusal of resources to which they submit to whom they would have to carry forward the fight against tax fraud. Judges and Tax Agency are overwhelmed when you are not under pressure. Not to mention the proposal for a bill amending the law of the Council of Auditors adopted today with the only votes of the People's Party, which lacks the slightest credibility for the reasons which I have already set out in the morning and which I will not repeat, but among them the lack of commitment to provide the Board of Auditors with independent technical, material and human resources. If we join this whole thing in the shameful performance of the State Government with the fraudsters on the Falcian list, we can see that there is a voluntary declaration by the Government itself to free them from a sanctioning file. So we're not only talking about tax fraud, but there's a lot more in the whole People's Party. Just like when we talked about the 2013 amnesty that was hosted by 30,000 contributors, and among the amnesty there are at least 715 suspects of tax fraud. One we've met, Rodrigo Mouse, we've only got 714 left. We're talking about [...] from the state by whom he occupies it without any legitimacy, because there are no votes or charges that empower anyone to delinquent. [[(By order of the President, and in the light of Rule 106(3) of the Rules of Procedure, this expression is withdrawn from the Journal of Sessions.)]] Yes, in this Parliament it is forbidden to say that these acts are either mafia or mafia. You don't want to understand the People's Party that the problem isn't the words, the problem is in the facts, where people know today and how the people define it. Whatever you want or don't want to hear, you don't change the reality of a people scandalized by the corrupt actions of a party and of all the governments that it supports. So, if you want, your name can be put on it. Just worry less about the adjectives and not give them reasons to put them in. Tax fraud is a consequence of consent and collaboration to fraud. Fraud is the Ministry of Business and Public Administration, the Spanish Tax Agency and the Rajoy Government. They also commit the charges of the People's Party that cover, protect and make possible this monumental scam. That's why I propose an addition amendment that I hope the Socialist Party will accept, because many of these people have ruined this country with the only objective of their personal enrichment and still bear the mark of the dignity of the great entrepreneur, and often even boasted that they had made themselves out of nothing. That's why we hope this will help us to learn that white gloves criminals are much more dangerous than ordinary criminals, even if the penalties are greater for ordinary criminals. That is why this amendment, which asks to add in point 1a: Make public the relationship of the persons on the Falcian list with obligation to declare in the Spanish State, as well as the relationship of the persons welcomed to the government prosecutorial amnesty Rajoy. And to add a new point (h)or point 2, to demand from the Government that the State Tax Agency, to facilitate the work of the Welsh Tax Agency, make available to it the relationship of persons on the Falciani list who were obliged to declare in the Spanish State and have their tax office in Galicia, as well as the relationship of persons with tax domicile in Galicia welcomed to the 2013 fiscal amnesty. Let's hope the Socialist Party accepts this amendment. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u187	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. The expression [...] is removed, and the corresponding call is made to the command. [[(By order of the President, and only Article 106(3) of the Rules of Procedure, this expression is withdrawn from the Journal of Sessions.)]] Parliamentary Group of Alternative Left Gallega. Mr. Ron.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u188	Good afternoon, everyone. It would be difficult not to repeat – let us try not to do so – with regard to the intervention given during the substanceation of the interpellation. We have already pointed out, precisely in the defence of our questions, during this inquiry that everything that is to be fought against tax fraud is essential. We like the triple approach to the Socialist Party's motion because we share, in fact, that we must, on the one hand, claim from Galicia to the Central Government that it fulfils its obligations. And we have to repudiate the 2012 fiscal amnesty that allowed forgiveness to real public assets thieves. Because a thief is the one who takes the surplus generated by the workers and workers, and a thief is what, moreover, prevents the public buildings from being cleaned and allowed to contribute to the redistribution of wealth and to strengthen public services. Thirdly, we also fully agree with Atriga's obligations to move forward and curb tax fraud. By our band – as we have already said, we do not want to fall into repetition – we have contributed a couple of additions to the Socialist Party's motion that affect, above all, an essential idea. It's not enough to worry about the existence of tax evasion and circumvention. We're tired of beautiful words, empty rhetoric. It is necessary to prevent their existence with strict and strict rules, and to prevent the party of thieves and the powerful, who play with the circulation of capital while having death borders for people. We need strict regulations, inspections, exemplary sanctions, and not amnesty for those who steal the surplus value generated by the working class. We say it loud and clear: it's a robbery. One of those tolerated, allowed and even animated thefts by the People's Party. And according to what we have heard before, even by the economic and industry advisor, there are tax optimization strategies in our state, in the Spanish state, one of them is foreign value holding companies, and there we focus one of our additions, as amended by the Socialist Party's motion. Foreign-value holding companies don't practically pay. They make the Spanish state a tax haven. They consist of a defiscalization process, without these companies being accompanied by the creation of productive structures or creating lasting real value. Moreover, they undermine the tax bases of other countries; above all, we are insolid. The capitals mobilised don't pay either the entrance or the exit. The dividends, profits and surpluses generated by these foreign companies, in which ETVE participates, are exempt from payment. It also does not pay for the distribution of benefits to partners; moreover, it is an advantage which has few European holding companies. This, moreover, makes it even appear in different opinion groups, as the Spanish State is a party for companies, precisely because on average, with regard to Europe, we are more permissive. We then clearly say, above all, that we listen to the words of the Minister of Economy and Competitiveness, who defined these companies as instrumental societies, whose existence follows tax optimization strategies within a single business group and, in many cases, their investments lack direct economic effects. They recognize that it is to circumvent tax liability, to circumvent solidarity and equity. So our request is to go to the Central Government to eliminate this legal figure from holding companies in foreign values and all the tax privileges they have. Because here, through this permissiveness, we organize the theft of public money, the theft that would allow us to clean up our public archives. Finally, the second addition is simply a demand that in addition almost everyone works against the illusion and tax evasion, which is to demand the development of a new law against tax evasion and tax evasion to precisely curb these strategies in the hands of large businessmen and advance towards solidarity, equity, justice, progressiveness and the redistribution of wealth. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u189	Thank you, Mr. Ron. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. Mr. Jorquera.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u190	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, the specific contents of this motion differ, at least in part, from the aspects that centred the debate on the question. The inquiry focused on the evaluation of the fight against tax fraud carried out by the Galega Tax Agency. On the other hand, the motion includes a point for the Galician Parliament to repudiate the fiscal amnesty carried out by the Government of the State in 2012, and also includes a first point with seven proposals for action which the Union must demand from the Government of the State. I have to say that we find this logical in the light of the recent events, of the multiple scandals to which Mr. Méndez Romeo referred in his speech; but, in particular, of the indications which point to which Mr. Rodrigo Rato bleached capitals and cheated on the Fairy. Nothing more and nothing less, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, than Rodrigo Rato, the architect – according to you – of the so-called Spanish economic miracle, ultimately, of this fast, speculative model of enrichment, based on the culture of the ballast that brought us this crisis. The man who was director of the International Monetary Fund, the body who told the states to cut wages, pensions, health care, education, while his manager was cheating on the Fairy and money-laundering. What being Minister of Economics and Fairy told people to comply with their tax obligations, while he himself cheated on the Fairy and then welcomed this shameful amnesty to the great fraudsters who approved the People's Party. We therefore understand the shift in the approach of the motion in relation to the debate of the interpellation. Many of the proposals contained in the first point of the motion, what they demand is transparency, to give publicity to situations of non-compliance with tax obligations, to inform individuals and companies that have accounts in tax havens, to change the rules so as to be able to know the identity of taxpayers who get tax benefits that exceed a particular count; and we are totally and absolutely in agreement. The organization of State Fairy inspectors itself has pointed out that one of the most effective ways to fight tax fraud is that there is transparency and that we can all know how much every citizen and every company is paying. And, of course, we also agree with the proposals for action against tax fraud in Galicia. There are studies that already place the volume of tax fraud in our nation at 25.6% of GDP, one point above the state average, a total and absolutely scandalous volume. On the other hand, the inspectoral activity of the Galaga Tax Agency has been reduced by 60%, and the Ministry of State Affairs itself warns that human resources for the pursuit of fraud have been reduced by 30% in Galicia, when Galicia is already below the average. We do not believe that this is the best way to comply with this Parliament's agreement so that the pursuit of the various forms of fraud, evasion and tax elusion that practice great fortunes, great wealth and big business as well, is a priority action. That is why we believe that it is essential that, within the scope of its competence, Union increase the means to combat tax fraud. We believe that transparency is also essential, that there is real parliamentary control over action in this area – as the Socialist Group proposes. The motion proposes, among other things, that a report drawn up by experts be submitted to the House. Although I take it to regret once again that the People's Group has blocked - as it has blocked so many things in this House - the creation of a commission to study tax fraud, which, among other things, from this hearing to experts; as proposed by the BNG Parliamentary Group. In any case, we share the measures contained in this motion. We believe, moreover, that must be a total and absolutely priority performance. For these reasons, this motion will count on the positive vote of the Galician Nationalist Block.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u191	Thank you, Mr. Jorquera. People's Parliamentary Group. Mr. Puy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u192	Good afternoon. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to say that before we move forward the vote of the People's Parliamentary Group on this motion I have three questions in advance: one, theoretically, from the political economy; one second, legally, from the right; and one third, practically, from the data. Always taking into account – as you said in Commission 3a – that we are all in favour of fighting tax fraud, although we can differ in how to be more effective. Theoretics. Tax fraud depends basically on two issues, the predisposition to fraud and the opportunity for fraud, which depends heavily on recorded economic activities. And these two questions, predisposition and opportunity, are conditioned by different variables. Classics are the cost of infringements, both by the probability of being arrested or perceived as fraud; the probability of being punished; the content of the penalty, or the costs of complying with tax obligations. Logically, pondered by the benefits of fraud, which have a great deal to do with marginal tax pressure. They also have to do with aversion to the risk of taxpayers, but they also have to do with – and modern financial sociology thus demonstrates – issues such as the social stigmatization of fraud, the perception of the equivalence of the tax system, the perception of the fairness of the tax system or the perception that exists in the group about the existence of many or few tax frauds. These are the conditions for tax fraud, and of course this can be concluded that falsely increases the perception that there is a lot of fraud or that there is no fight against fraud is counterproductive, precisely for the purposes of combating tax fraud. The second consideration is legal. Both the Constitution and the Law on urgent measures of the year 1977 – urgent measures of fiscal reform in which sources of Quintana lay the foundation of our tax system – and the Constitutional Court in many decisions clearly states it. E quote or Constitutional Court: "In particular, it recalls the duty of secrecy which weighs on all authorities and officials who have knowledge of data revealed in tax investigations. Please note that it must be strict and complete and that it is especially protected. This long list of requirements deserves special mention of the duty of secrecy on those who are aware, on account of their responsibility, of the data discovered in the investigations, ensuring as much as possible the effectiveness of the secret." It is constitutionally necessary to keep a secret about the fulfilment of the tax obligations of each of Spain's taxpayers. Third consideration: data. Data from the State Tax Administration Agency in the fight against fraud. Management and inspection results: year 2014, 12,138 million euros detected, 12.5% more than the previous year; 20% more than the last socialist administration detected. Regularizations and control of goods located abroad: based on institutional cooperation, and in part also on the fiscal regularisation process, EUR 108,000 million that are incorporated into the Spanish tax bases and therefore insert and charge from now on every year. We're talking about 10% of the gross domestic product. Atriga data, 260,000 checks in 2014, 13% more over 2013; 181 million, of which 148 in management and 33 in inspection, 20% more than the previous year, 50% more if we talk about inspection data. A tax control plan already published, once again, collecting the unanimous agreement of this house. Finally, I conclude, to contribute to the deterioration of the perception of compliance with tax obligations is counterproductive. It is illegal to advertise the acts of the tax authorities. In addition, both the Tax Agency and Atriga data confirm the commitment to the fight against tax fraud. In fact, 87% of the Greeks reviewed by the Atriga have properly complied with their tax obligations. We are therefore faced with a situation in which the PSOE throughout Spain is embarking on a campaign to politicize the action of the tax authorities, aside from any competition and competitive attribution and, surprisingly, with enthusiasm added by Mr Méndez Romeu, who even in his speech every day resembles the tireless spokesman of the Joint Group. You see the results, you see the clarifications that have been made to you, like the specific number of revisions that have been made, that you said – and you insisted several times – that they have decreased to 115,000 when actually they have risen to 13%, to 260,000. And they use at least strange issues, in which the Socialist Party's candidates participate in the Madrid Town Hall to, also violating the presumption of innocence, try to discredit the PP. And the problem with this behavior is that they don't despise the PP, but they're charging the credibility of the Spanish Tax Administration and now they also want it from Galicia. And that's what they do on those who can ask for lists of names, because when they did tax amnesties they were absolutely opaque, in letters and payment from the Treasury, which were advertised as "their most agile investment, without retentions", because they were completely anonymous, it was not known whether it came from drug trafficking or what kind of issues.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u193	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u194	Or more recently, spokesperson for the Joint Group, it was the Socialist Group who made an amnesty on the Falcian list, just before leaving the Government. Ladies and gentlemen, precisely because the PP is committed to the fight against fraud, and precisely because this fight is demonstrated by facts and figures I have just mentioned, we are not going into the dangerous and counterproductive game to help extend a cloak of suspicion about the conduct of the State and autonomous tax administration. Because it would also imply the violation of fundamental human rights and undermine the perception of the equivalence and fairness of the tax system. Finally, we shall vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u195	Thank you, Mr. Puy. Motion author group. Mr. Méndez Romeo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u196	Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. I want to start by thanking the support and similar speech of the Galician Nationalist Block and understanding the positions of the other groups that present amendments... they propose very relevant issues that would need a debate for the kids who now have no time and which, therefore, we are not going to add to this motion. Mr. Puy, today you should basically speak to Mr. Montoro. [[Murmurs.]] But if it were Mr. Montoro and the director of the Tax Agency who this week was saying in the Courts that what they knew was the pear, the repertoire...! But, hey, where are the filtrations coming from? Who took care of eliminating, breaking the credibility of the Tax Agency when he arrived in the Government? Mr. Montoro. You were the ones who damaged the credibility of the Tax Agency! [[Applause]] [[Murmurs.]] And look, Mr. Puy, the problem is that at this point in April 2015, we have to talk about the immorality that is presiding over this debate. Or don't you read the papers? Or do the names I cited for you prove unknown? You have a problem called Mr. Mouse, Mr. Rajoy, Mrs. Cospedal; you have a problem called Mr. Trillo; and you have a problem here called Mr. Feijóo, Mr. Baltar and others. They have a credibility problem because they're not doing what they should and, instead, they're doing the opposite of what they need. And here's the CIS data, 80% of citizens believe the system is notoriously unfair. Mr. Puy, there's no indication that you want to change these behaviors. This morning we attended a devious debate. You come here and say that you will now have a body that will take care of correcting all this, and at the same time, in the actual text that is voted on and published, you deny that body the necessary means to act. But what's this about? Of course I'll amend it, of course we'll amend it from the top down, Mr. Puy. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] We are going to amend it from top to bottom, knowing that it will serve what the work of the opposition here serves, as we saw this morning in public employment: 800 outdated amendments and only four minor issues accepted. We know what the rules of play are, and the rules of play are that you have no desire to correct fraud because fraud directly benefits you, or directly benefits your political friends. This is the situation in which we find ourselves, and against this is what citizens cry out for, and they cry out for all reason. And this Parliament should not be alien. We understand your position and we understand that you don't want to change the status quo because it favors you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u197	Thank you, Mr. Méndez Romeo. G.P. motion. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr José Antonio Sánchez Bugallo, on the establishment by the Italian Government of concrete and quantified commitments on housing and their referral to the Parliament of Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u198	This motion was presented with an amendment by the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block of Wales.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u199	Mr. Sánchez Bugallo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u200	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good afternoon, gentlemen. We look again in this Parliament to talk about a subject which, from our point of view, has not just had a solution, which is housing policy. In the full past, less than a month ago, Mrs. Environmental, Territorial and Infrastructure Adviser, responsible for housing policy, with exclusive competences in housing policy, and in that appearance I would make a balance sheet for the years 2009-2014. When we were talking about the construction of protected homes over these years, we stressed that in 2007 it was 4,319. It went from 2010 to 1,817 – that is, 60% less –. It went from 2013 to 439; that is, another 70% plus less. And according to the data provided by the Ministry of Development, which is responsible for housing, in 2014 – last year – there were 42 dwellings. Thus, we said that the balance sheet indicated that, in terms of protected housing, Galicia had built in 2014 or 0.35% of the national total. Well embedded in the fourth quarter, where not a single dwelling appears in Galicia, that 0.35% becomes 0.28%. It contrasts this figure of protected housing with that of free housing, in which, already known the fourth quarter data, Galicia appears with 2,624 units, which consists of 7,45 % of the national total. That is, if we are about 6% of the Spaniards, it turns out that in free housing we are 30% above average, but in protected housing we are twenty times – not 20%, but twenty times – below average. I also asked for the rehabilitation data, because perhaps we could understand that if we actually abandoned the new housing policy because we concentrated our efforts on protected housing and on rehabilitation, and the truth is that the protected housing and rehabilitation data are simply incredible; I want to think that there is some problem in the data of the Ministry of Development. I'm going to give you some data: Andalusia approximately 12,000 houses protected and rehabilitated; Basque Country, eleven thousand and peak rehabilitated housing; Galicia, zero. The truth is that I find it absolutely surprising; I want to think that, surely, Galician data is not updated. But, in any case, what's true is that Galicia spends about 7%, in 2011, with 7,611 dwellings; it decreases in 2013 to 72 dwellings, 0.22%; and the data it appears in 2014 is zero potato, not a single residence rehabilitated in Galicia! I want to think that this data isn't right. In any case, this figure is not excessively different from another given that we were handling the other day, which was the degree of execution of the budget for rehabilitation, that is, line 451C, which we remembered that in 2013 it was only executed at 1.3% – i.e., of 22 million euros spent less than 300,000–, and in 2014 the data we know, that is, the official liquidation issued by the Business Council, they found that only EUR 1.6 million of 22 million was consumed again, therefore, 7%. And they also contrast this data with other dramatic data we know these days. The General Council of the Judiciary has recently published lists of defiances between 2008 and 2014. The number you give is scary: 513,973. Probably not all the evictions are habitual housing, but probably around half, which is the usual proportion, yes sound, and we'd be talking about 250,000 ordinary homes defeated in the whole of Spain over these seven years. Ladies and gentlemen, 250,000 homes are the equivalent of the cities of Vigo, La Coruña, Lugo and Ourense together. That's in the whole of Spain. In the case of the Greek, the data we handle tell us about 2,000 to 2,500 common housing evictions in Galicia. Of course, most of them are at this point not because of the mortgage, but because of the income. Probably, data from the year 2014 – we still don't know the definitive data – indicate that, of these two thousand and peak housings, about 800 will be out of mortgages, and about 2,000, about 1,700, will be out of income. The truth is, that means thousands of Galician families, and hundreds of families in the whole of Spain, are losing their homes. And in view of that, the reaction of the autonomous community, with exclusive competences in this matter, is absolutely and radically insufficient. The other day, Counsellor, we were told that in Galicia 278 million euros were invested in this matter during the six years of the People's Party's government. It was forgotten that the budget allocation, which has already been reduced, was 670 million, which means that about 60% of the available budget has not been executed, or at least it has not been executed or devoted to housing policies, but has been devoted to other purposes. And all of this is still contrasting with a list of already corrected housing applicants, already rectified, already cleared by the corresponding councillorship, which gives us the figure of 15,226 families in January. Ladies and gentlemen, if we build at a rate of 42 new dwellings; if we redeploy 43 families affected by eviction in two years, it is clear that not only are we going to give a solution to this problem, but that is going to get worse every day. That is why we have tabled this motion since the Socialist Parliamentary Group, which essentially contains two proposals. First of all, it is to recriminalize the Autonomous Community's decision, its abandonment, its failure to comply with housing policy. We believe that this Parliament must require the Autonomous Community to comply with its obligation under the Housing Law. Exclusive jurisdiction in the area of housing. And the second thing we say is that the Counsellor spoke the other day of the RehaVita Plan, which is a plan that I think will perform great miracles. But if what he does is the same thing he's been doing so far, it's all smoke, it's nothing, it's all advertising and propaganda. So what we are asking is that this House demand that the Greek Government take on concrete, perfectly quantified commitments. How many official public promotion protection housing will be built each year? How many homes were rehabilitated? How many housing units will be offered on a rental plan to accommodate families affected by eviction, and what will be done with these 15,226 families who are on the waiting list to get their housing? We think that would give him credibility. If there is no quantified, concrete commitment that we can measure, and that every year we can check whether or not the targets are met, we understand that everything is wet paper and again advertising and propaganda. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u201	Intervention of parliamentary groups. For the Galician Nationalist Block, Mr. Pombo Rodríguez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u202	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen and guests of the rostrum. In the face of this motion to substance the question of the full past, the Parliamentary Group of the BNG must remember what it has already expressed on that occasion, that we have passed the equator of this second legislation, of the second Government of Mr Feijóo, with an inheritance, of course, totally negative in terms of economic, social and housing policies. We are living the Caritas Report: 600,000 Greeks suffering social exclusion, of which more than 130,000 in severe social exclusion. We are in a situation where the most urgent problems for the Greeks and the Greeks are those of employment, health and housing; a job that, after a legislation and a half of the Government Feijóo, the great achievement is that there are 100,000 unemployed more than when they arrived, of which, half without any benefit; many, many, 60%, in long-term unemployment; in 90,000 Greek homes, all in unemployment. That's the great achievement of employment. In health, more or less of the same. I'm constantly deteriorating in health care, and they're starting to announce that, towards the summer, hundreds, thousands of beds, they're going to close, because I can see that the diseases don't attack and you don't have to treat them. The housing, the third big problem, excessively expensive for many families and non-existent for more than 4,000 Greek people who have to live not in the housing, but in the street. Ladies and gentlemen, the failure of employment, health and housing policies, because Mr Feijóo's government was not able to guarantee the right to housing, it was only ensuring continued cuts in housing and rehabilitation policies. Cuts of between 80% and 87%. The German Government was unable to use the tools it has to guarantee this fundamental right of persons: it did not stop any evictions or protect people from the bank and pirate investment funds. It is true that in the electoral pre-campaign – there are a couple of plenarys – the Counsellor brought enough propaganda to fill this parliamentary chamber with smoke; more smoke and more propaganda to try to conceal the continued cuts in Mr. Feijóo's housing policies. Smoke and propaganda that, of course, is unbearable. Even the People's Valedor had to focus on families defeated with affected minors. The Parliamentary Group of the BNG, of course, has called for an active commitment from this German Parliament to ensure the right of all Welsh people to a dignified housing, to end that scourge that in Galicia affects more than 10,000 families at the time of the Feijóo Government and which continues to grow, month by month, with hundreds more refugees. The German government was unable to guarantee the right to housing, although there was enough money to clean the bank: 9,000 million euros to the bank. The entire board year's budget to save the bank's problems, while families don't -- let's say -- have a plan to access a home. The German Government brought up a state cut and grab plan, which I would rather say a plan to cut and catch in 2009. He wants what is so much filled his mouth with bad talk about what he used to do at home in Galicia 185 million in 2009. The advisor, a few weeks ago, announced the bomb and plate here propaganda to invest – attention, ladies and gentlemen – 51 million a year; from 185 to 51. So, Mr. Bugallo, there are no resources left to guarantee the right to housing of all the Greeks and all the Greeks. I'm telling you that the BNG matches your motion, which rejects the housing policies of the Union.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u203	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u204	We have tabled an amendment – it is over, Madam President – to urge the Board of Galicia to call for the paralyzing of all the defiance files resulting from mortgage executions and to claim the nullity of all the abusive only clauses. We also claim and agree with you – and we have finished – to establish clear, concrete and quantified housing commitments. Our amendment proposes that, apart from talking about protected housing, also include housing rehabilitation, housing heritage and the bottoms of that heritage, measures to promote renting empty housing.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u205	Finish it, please, Mr. Pombo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u206	I hope you accept this amendment. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u207	Thank you very much. Joint Group. Mrs. Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u208	The housing policy of the Union is, as in almost everything that has to do with social, non-existent interests or the service of private interests of a minority. With the legal reforms of 2010 and 2012, the land reserve for protected housing set by the Law of 2008, of the so vicious bipartisan, disappeared in practice. The funds for the construction of public promotion housing almost disappeared from budgets: 52 million budgeted when Feijóo arrived and just over 3 million this year. But if it doesn't come up with budget cuts, where they govern not only do they promote new housing, but they liquidate existing projects for the benefit of private promoters, as they did in Compostela with the dwellings of John XXIII. As the sounds are desirable for private friendly promoters, it will sound for friends and public promotion homes outside the city. The loss of purchasing power derived from their policies of general impoverishment causes rent plans to fail, because just renters are out of the reach of those who need housing. Failure is confirmed by the decline figures of applicants in all the cities of Greece. The People's Party derogates in practice the constitutional right to housing, just as it does any other person who is a fish for the prosperity of financial capital or the interests of his friends. And, in Galicia, more. According to Caritas, we are the second autonomous community in number of homeless people, almost double the Spanish average, 133 versus 71 per 100,000 inhabitants. To the end of the defeat caused by his policy, in Galicia we have 241,047 empty dwellings, some of them property of the Union, which, as they were done by the damn bipartite, are unemployed and in abandonment, as happens, for example, in Chantada. People without homes and homes without people, is the efficiency of which you so presume. And you'll have to keep adding empty houses and homeless people, because evictions, evictions, continue; five a day, according to the General Council of the Judiciary. The first step would be to leave the empty dwellings, favouring the rent at assumed prices for those who have no home. It should not be as difficult to negotiate with a bank rescued from public funds as much as it is to avoid the evictions from habitual housing as the provision of homes from evictions to devote them to social rent, much more and more when it is increasingly the communities of owners who denounce the debts that the bank has with them for default of the corresponding quotas of homes from evictions. But the People's Party with the bank will never negotiate, but it offers you gifts, as they did with the delivery to the Bank of Caixanova. The first step that should be taken in the matter of housing would be to avoid evictions, paralyze them, instead of sending the repressive forces to slaughter and fine the people who defend the right to housing. To enhance social inclusion, the environmental and economic sustainability of the existing housing park, it is necessary to make a new policy. The seriousness of evictions requires an urgent response that promotes social rent, especially the mobilization of unemployed housing. This mobilization would enable a real-time public intervention of a shelter protected or rented public, since those left to be built must still be built and therefore delay access to the housing of many families and people who cannot afford that time. We are far from the European Union's average rental stock, and we are far further away from rent houses in countries such as Finland, France, the United Kingdom, Sweden, Denmark, Austria or the Netherlands. Finally, the mobilization of empty housing is urgently needed for this society. The help model should also be changed. As is the labour market, wage depreciation and the ease of losing employment, even in high-benefit businesses, people do not undertake to pay. The aid should be based on offering rents adapted to the characteristics of the leased persons and with a payment by the person would benefit that did not exceed 20% of the income of the family unit.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u209	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u210	That's the only way I'd solve the housing needs. It's over. I'm out of time. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u211	Thank you very much. Parliamentary Group of Alternative Left Gallega. You have the word Mrs. Yolanda Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u212	Mr Bugallo, as we did in the interpellation that we announced just when Vivenda's advisor was present, who deserved a reprobation, because logically in this motion, which brings the cause of this interpellation, obviously we are going to support this motion on the two points it posed, especially in regard to its reprobation, right? So it's a shame that you don't even show enough sensitivity to the advisor to be here while we make this motion, because it's supposed that for a government that's telling us repeatedly that its fundamental concern is that social policies are supposed to be a fundamental basic right within these social policies, a human right above anyone else's without being life, surely it will be the terms or guaranteeing the right to housing; what happens is that the counselor has other things to do and cannot be with us today. The truth is that I wanted to start this little intervention by quoting the UN special rapporteur on housing, which points to something relevant to our state, and it is – she says – that it has become more than just providing affordable housing to financial market facilitators. And she says, she's not a suspect of being a revolutionary Marxist, who conceive living as an asset and not as a basic and fundamental product, ultimately, as a human right that must be the object of preservation these days. It is clear that we are talking about Article 25 of the Declaration of Human Rights, and it is clear that today this right in our country is not yet met. With regard to the data that have just been published by the General Council of the Judiciary, which are growing as time goes on, because, indeed, in this series of years Galicia reaches 1,887 disqualifications, a question which is of course more than relevant, as reflected in the data of the General Council of the Judiciary. So if it were a government – I insist – concerned about a basic and fundamental right as housing, no doubt they would be taking some of the actions that we have proposed since the opposition. But it's true that if we compare the reduction of housing programs from the damn bipartite up to now, we'll see how impossible this is. For example, if you see programme 451A, in 2009 you had recorded €54.6 million – the damn bipartite – in which the same programme currently has €15.3 million. But we can also talk about program 451B: at the time of the damn bipartite, 38 million euros; and today, 2015, 13.6 million euros. And in the whole of the parties that the concerned Government of the People's Party has devoted to this issue, because since the rule of the damn bipartisan they have reduced exactly 80 per cent of the budget appropriations. And here is the comparison of data from the bipartite, in 2009, and the current year 2015; so the numbers are numbers and they are actually reflected. But it is also that we could make a narrative of rehabilitation policies – which Mr Bugallo has already done – that is, zero patatore, especially for one question: because you don't really believe in this way of acting or even intervening. For you really this of having skills in living is an obstacle, because you believe that the market must be what naturally intercedees, as something that really falls from the sky in these matters. But there are factors that would certainly require care and attention, and attention and public intervention in a matter as sensitive as housing rehabilitation, given that we have about 300,000 completely empty dwellings in Galicia. And it is true that with regard to the data from registers of housing applicants, as reflected in official data, Mr. Bugallo said,
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u213	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u214	...we have 15,423 family units that, according to their reports or the RehaVita Plan, actually affect more than 50,000 people who are demanding housing and who today are deprived of it in our country. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, something is doing wrong. And, of course, I'm done, Counselor, making two reflections. The first: what is IGVS? What's the IGVS for? Because, really, to engage and develop materials that have to do with housing and soil, not. Close the IGVS – I say it ironically – it's not worth anything. And secondly, its policy of defiance is the one collected on the RehaVita Plan on page 35. And I literally read, "What to do...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u215	Finish it, Mrs. Díaz, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u216	...–and ended– is to continue to sink into measures that extend people's protection." What are those measures? Well, we don't know, we suppose these are reflecting Mr. Bugallo on his proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u217	Thank you very much, Mrs. Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u218	So, Mr Bugallo, we will vote in favour of these two initiatives.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u219	People's Group. Mr. Castineira Broz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u220	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. Mr. Bugallo, you gave a lot of figures, and I have to tell you that I only agree with one. Because, really, if you think about it – I said it or I misunderstood it – but said 500,000 wasteful in Spain, 250,000 in housing. I think there's at least one zero left. You think... you yourself said just like the dwellings in Lugo, Vigo, La Coruña and Santiago together and some more. I mean, man, it really seems to me a little over-exaggerated, honestly. And I think of course the data I collected, at Galicia level -- I didn't take those from Spain -- but I'm telling you that there's at least one zero left. And there's a lot of them, and there's still a lot of them. But look, in Galicia, and I'm going to give you the comparative data, so that you can see what's there, which are many, global, housing and the rest of it is there in the report of the judiciary. Launches, positive mortgage executions in Galicia. No 2014, 1,341; no 2010, the evil bipartisan in Madrid, 1,600. I mean, they're many, they're still many, but they're almost 300 less than in 2010, Mr. Zapatero's time, and you're at that moment Santiago's mayor. I mean, man, they're still a lot, but it looks like the thing is they're putting on measures, something that other governments that've been before, no. And he said he was matching you with an actual figure of 600 million euros over these years in the IGVS budgets. And you said 270, the counselor said 330. I'm at least the data I have for investments over these six years, since May 2009, 330 million euros invested, and the rest I explain, because we've already explained it to him the other day. The other 263 million euros went to pay the debts you left in the Gestur drawer. And Mr. Pombo, high office at that time of Xestur and Vivenda, knows perfectly what I mean, 40 million euros. Even this year in budgets there are EUR 40 million in IGVS budgets to pay the debts you left. And, man!, the execution, the low level of execution must also be taken into account, because in that they were teachers, and you must recognize it, on December 28, 2008 – certainly, day of innocent Saints – Mr. Zapatero – at that time Minister of Government Development of Mr. Zapatero – makes an entrance to the 44 million euro bipartite board on Plan 2005-2008. Curiously, the plan was finished and there was no way to execute it anymore, but Mr. Zapatero had the 100% execution of the program, and the housing plan passed the ball to the board, the board couldn't execute it, and then there's low levels of execution because it has to be returned. Actually, those are played by some who, of course, are not the most normal, not much less. But, look, as far as housing is concerned, I can tell you how we said before, without being... of course we would, but the economic situation is what it is and the situation that you left at Galician Union, as in Spain, it was also what it was, and I think all the citizens, both the Greeks and Spaniards, know, unfortunately many have suffered in their skin. But, look, their data isn't true, because over the years they've done it, they've ended up, and they've given themselves over 2,000 public promotion housing. The public housing park owned by the IGVS is 2,800 homes, and the aid to families for the purchase of self-protection housing was 2,900 families. So I don't agree with the data you give me, much less. And the Aluga Programme, where part of that record is actually in the Aluga Programme, which calls for rental aid, 13,100 contracts have been signed, and now with the ReaVita Plan – if you say it's smoke – just increased a budget allocation of €5.3 million for that program. Curiously, this program at the time of the bipartite, and you have to say, do you know how much you were doing in managing that program? About 2.5 million euros. There were 75 employees, privatized the system, because it was privatized, Mr. Bugallo, and you know it, privatized 75 employees, – let's say – advisers of these, what were they called?, chiringuits who were putting around; there were 75 employees in those chiringuits, of course, close to some parties, plus five officials. At present, this program is controlled and managed through seven staff members. So don't look at the global amounts, actually look at the amounts and the figures that really go to people...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u221	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u222	...that's really what counts. And, of course, Plan RehaVita 2015-2020 is an ambitious plan, which has the forecast of investments of 600 million euros, 307 public investment over the next few years, and which is expected to benefit 152,000 neighbors and neighbors of Galicia. And, Mr. Bugallo, smoke, ask the municipalities, one of them Santiago or Lugo, which have areas of integral rehabilitation, whether they have or not, or whether they are or not rehabilitating housing. So those zero housing accounts don't match me because, among other things, there are already several rehabilitation plans. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u223	Thank you very much. Mr. Sánchez Bugallo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u224	Thank you very much, Madam President. First, thank the groups who share the opposition to the Socialist Parliamentary Group for their favourable vote, and of course we accept the amendment made to us by the Nationalist Block Galego, which we believe, in any case, complements and expands the proposal that we put forward. Look, Mr. Castineira: releases, 513,973, 2008-2014, added seven years. It's not my data, it's the data that's just made public by the Judiciary Council, and I'm going to repeat it again. Secondly, Mr. Castineira: the 330 million invested you said it, and you repeated it in the plenary, but not the counselor, the counselor spoke of 278, unless I had listened to it badly. Third data, rehabilitation, official data – I have here the Ministry page – Andalucía 12,366 rehabilitated homes – Andalucía, which always put it as an example – Basque Country 11,632, Galicia zero potato. I don't know if it's okay or wrong, but it's official data. Equally, official data from the Ministry of Development, official shelters: Andalusia 2.055 in 2014, Basque Country 2.244, Galicia 42, that is, 50 times less. That's the reality, that's the reality that happened in Galicia, that's the real abandonment of housing policy, and that's what happened and you can see in any of the Greek cities. You speak of 2,000 houses delivered in six years. And do you think it's 300 a year, when we have a waiting list of more than 15,000 people, 2,000 in six years? Forty-five years of waiting would have to have these families to finish this waiting list, and they still come up with that. And the RehaVita Plan, extraordinary, one hundred million public euros that will come from Madrid, because we don't know what it's going to put on. I'm afraid nothing, because that's what you're really doing. More than 5 million euros for the rent program, and does it look like a lot of what's raining, what's going on, with the unemployment there, with the tens of thousands of families going through enormous difficulties in having a clean home? But do you think you can assume that? It's a shame. I understand that the People's Party should reflect and have to radically rectify its politics. 0,28 % of Spain's protected housing beginning in Spain started in Galicia, 7,5 % in exchange for private households. Maybe that's what you referred to earlier when you talk about economic recovery, economic recovery, not most of them.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u225	Thank you very much, Mr Bugallo. G.P. motion. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da Maria Teresca Peace Franco, on the measures to be taken by the Government of Greece in relation to the situation that is going through the dairy sector
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u226	No amendments have been tabled to this motion and Mrs. Paz Franco of the Galician Nationalist Block has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u227	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. The truth is, I don't think I've got a lot of epithetics left to define the situation in the dairy sector today. We can say that you are in a critical situation and, above all, that you are in a situation of total abandonment by the Government of the People's Party governments. Frankly, at this point we no longer know whether it seems more scandalous to us about the attitude of industries, falling systematically almost every day that passes the price of milk that the owners receive, to the point that we already have news of contracts where a portion of milk is paid at less than 20 cents/litre, I don't know – I insist – if we find it more scandalous about that attitude or if we find it more scandalous than the owners and the dealers have to be enduring constantly the insults to them and to them the different political leaders, the different public positions. They have to stop permanently that Mrs. Ulloa, director general of this branch, says that the situation is like this because the glovers and the glovers have not done their homework. They have to stop me from telling them that what they have to learn to do is to save from when things go well for when things go wrong. They have to stop the Middle Rural Counsellor from saying that the Government has to maintain its neutrality, that is, to allow industries, large multinationals, to camp at their sides and continue literally blackmailing the gainfully with all kinds of instruments. And they also have to stop Mrs. Tejerina, the Minister, from coming here to her colony to insult the Greeks and the Greeks by saying that the problem of the Greek dairy sector and the prices of the Greek cattle is because they can't negotiate. He just failed to say they can't negotiate because they're Greek and we're genetically stupid and therefore we're ill-equipped for business. Look, the reality is that we are in a situation where people define the milk sector policy, unfortunately, it is not Galician Union, which is who should define it, because for something we produce more than 40% of the milk produced in the Spanish State and we have more than 50% still, and despite what they closed, of the dairy farms throughout the Spanish State. It is not Galician Union, but, unfortunately, it is not the Ministry of Agriculture that defines milk policy. Dairy politics defines it today, and more and more and more constantly, the multinationals. The multinationals are the ones that say, the ones that decide what price is sold and the liter of milk is paid. Multinationals are the ones that mark the new framework of the milk sector. So far we had a framework that was defined by the European Union, which said how much every farmer could produce, according to what was an administrative authorization; not now, it has disappeared, but now it is the dairy industries that say how much each one of the farmers can produce that is still holding farms in our country. But what's most dramatic is that in recent weeks we're also detecting that the dairy industry wasn't enough to decide that, but now it's also deciding where, where parts of the territory are allowed and in which it doesn't produce milk. We're seeing how some industries already decide to abandon milk collection in certain areas of the territory, because it seems to them to be profitable. Still giving it to them, they don't want to go looking for it because it's left for industry's interests. And the Junta, who knows, isn't even waiting for him. And we have to bear that Mrs. Tejerina comes here, that she does a TV tour, to tell us that the milk package is the eighth wonder, that the milk package gives many tools to the livestock and the sheepfolds so that they can negotiate and defend themselves. What tools? They are not ashamed, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, if they agree that the Ministry and the Council of Galicia will continue to insult the greedy and greedy people in this way. We have recently seen as all trade union organizations, all professional organizations in the dairy sector just filed a complaint for fraud, so that all contracts signed are declared null because they really are a fraud, because not even the minimum guarantees that the milk package recognises for the farmers and the farmers are being complied with. And the board looking to the other side, and Mrs. Tejerina saying they have a lot of tools. We are seeing how on large commercial surfaces milk remains an element of claim and a clearly trivialized element, and we have to stop Mrs Tejerina saying that "it seems to her wrong". But look, ma'am, apart from you looking bad, you, who says there are instruments to punish that, tell us how many sanctions he has imposed on distribution companies by trivializing milk. Or, Mrs. García Pacín, tell us later how many people you put together in Galicia or how many you've been planning to put on. Or have you thought about continuing to take the hair of the sheep and the sheep? We have to bear to be told that the scenario without quotas is an opportunity. And indeed, it could have been a chance if both the Government of Galician Union and the Government of the State, but especially in this case the Government of Galician Union, since 2009, which is clearly known that there is no going back in the disappearance of quotas on April 1, 2015, had taken some kind of action to prepare the dairy sector for that situation, to define some strategy. So much so that this Government likes 4.0 strategies, do you know what the strategy was about the dairy sector? Four ceilings.0. Actually, that was the only strategy, which is that cows can stop producing milk. Because not a single measure in the field of industrialization; not a single measure in the RDP to promote small milk processing initiatives into cheeses, dairy products, beatings, etc.; not a single initiative to dimension cooperativeism. In order for you to come back to the minister again to tell us that the problem we have in the Greeks is that we have an undimensioned cooperativeism. We know this, Minister, but it's just that Mr. Núñez Feijóo has done all he's done for Greek co-operativeism is to give them 9 million euros to two poops of the People's Party, which have ruined three cooperatives or four steps in addition to dairy food, which have screwed up with La Arzuana, with Gancobre and with several more cooperatives who have crossed the road. This is the situation, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party. And now, today, on 28 April, what else do you want me to do in the dairy sector in this country so that we can tell the Government from this Parliament to do something? What else has to happen in a situation where the gloves are at the brink of precipice and that, if we go on like this, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, you'll be responsible for giving them the last push to get them down the cliff? Because, of course, what can't be happening is that we keep looking somewhere else, that in the face of that defence situation where the livestock find themselves, the Government of Galician Union continues without using the instruments it has or the ones it does not have. Because I believe that, when we arrived at this time and being the dairy sector – that we would recognize it, I say, the Members of the People's Party – basic to maintain activity, human life – I would dare say – demographics, the economic movement in almost two thirds of the territory of Greece, we will even have, if necessary, to declare ourselves unsubmitted to any legality of the state or of the European Union. Because we're going through the survival of our country where the 9,600 farms that are still in this country are producing milk and are destined to continue to do so. And, of course, if they don't do anything, it'll be their responsibility.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u228	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u229	We, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, have two ladies in front of the dairy sector who have an insolvent attitude not only, but absolutely insolvent, in relation to the glovers and the genders and in relation to the milk sector. And, of course, from here on, Members and Members of the People's Party should tell Mr Feijóo that he is no longer buying this attitude and that he has the only position on the milk sector to be the palm tree of the Government of the State and the palm tree of whom he is destroying the Welsh dairy sector. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u230	Thank you, Mrs. Paz. Intervention of parliamentary groups. Joint Group. Mrs. Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u231	Well, at the entrance I announce my support for this motion from beginning to end and I subscribe to each of your words. And, Mrs. Paz, the only thing we have left to see here is a demonstration of cows in front of Parliament for collective dismissal. Because more reasons, more arguments, more realities can't expose to a government that doesn't want to look at. And the truth is, there's either a public intervention to protect the weakest or we're at a serious risk of a traumatic conversion that can lead to ruin most of the Welsh dairy sector. We have talked a lot about the dairy sector in this Parliament, but with no results, because the Board does nothing, even though the advisor comes to tell us again and again that he spoke to the companies, to the distribution and to the payroll. Together, a lot of talk, but of results, nothing at all. It is necessary to govern and choose which side the Government is on and which interests must defend, and now Galicia's interests demand a government that is on the side of the weak, the producers, and not on the side of the distribution and the industry that crushes them. I will not tire of repeating that the Galician Union is responsible for spoiling the opportunity to count on a co-operative basic Greek milk group, as was the case with Milk Food. I have already talked about the opportunity that would open up the disappearance of milk quota if Galicia had been able to take advantage of the comparative advantages that it is supposed to have particularly suitable for fodder production, which are the basis for producing better quality milk and which can also compete at any price in the European Union. But I also said that we are at a particularly difficult time for the existing milk producers sector and that the difficulties are so great that it is necessary for public intervention to curb the irresponsible greed of industries, that either they do not want to make contracts or offer contracts to the owners who know they are under the cost. They behave like the scorpion with the frog in the famous fable. That's why we demand the end of the complicity of administrations with industry and distribution. If they don't know or can't do anything, why do they serve the owners and the advisor and the minister, the Ministry and the Council? The problem isn't just about the gangs, it's about the whole of Galicia. A situation that reaches the country as a whole and especially the Greek administration if we take seriously that the production of quality food must be a strategic line of any government worthy of that name. I would like to stress that support for the milk sector, with determined intervention and with budgets, is needed to alleviate the negative effects on existing holdings, especially in this first year of the disappearance of milk quota. We started from a difficult situation for the nearly 10,000 Galician dairy farms, which see as soon dissipated the large amounts of money invested in acquiring production rights that were assured they would serve to guarantee a stable price framework. But we all know that it was a deception in which successive People's Party governments actively participated, which almost without interruption occupied the Union; also the successive governments of the state, whether of the affins or of the reds, were decisive actors of this deception. It has also been talked about in recent years – and it has been a constant demand from the producer sector – of the need to establish a framework of relations between producers and dairy companies with the minimum stability that enables planning in production and industry and the economic survival of both. In the motion it is only a question of diminishing the effects of the law of the jungle which has been reflected in the relations between production, industry and marketing, which has always had peasants and peasants as victims. It is about ensuring competition between companies and ending milk as a commercial claim, ending sales fraud. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, they exercise the government to guarantee the free competition with which they fill their mouths when it comes to crushing the workers and the workers below. We have spoken many times since the opposition to the need to monitor and sanction the cheated agreements of industry, giving the National Commission of Markets and Competition, and modifying the sanctioning regime so that they do not pay 80 million fines a scam of more than 800 million, as recently happened with the dairy industries.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u232	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u233	So my support for this motion, from beginning to end, and my hope that the Government, for the first time, will defend the dairy sector. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u234	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. Parliamentary Group of the Left Galician Alternative. You have the word of Mr. Anton Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u235	Well, once again we're going to talk about a very important matter. We've talked about it many times, but it's not much more to reiterate the situation that many of the country's creditors are living today. It is true that both the advisor and the CEO of Agricultural Production, as well as the minister, have held the owners responsible for their situation. Home!, it provokes quite indignation that these ladies bear responsibility for the gain, first, because the errors of the owners go to the gain: their errors pay us with their heritage, with their lives, when these ladies don't even assume their responsibilities, they don't cost them anything; when there are objective data indicating that these women have no competence or capacity to carry out their duties; when there are objective data that speak of the failure of this government in this field. They take no criticism, they take no responsibility for not doing their duties. Because, besides, incidentally, in this sector who did the duties were the owners, who adapted to the model that told them it was modern, efficient, competitive: investing in quota to gain size, investing in technology to produce very modern, investing in installations for intensive production, not based on land, etc. In the meantime, what were the duties that had to have done a German government? Size, territorial base, spatial planning. According to you, they did. There is a successful land management policy in this country; yes, sir, land mobility policies. When do you plan to assume data responsibilities, for example, of the INE, which say that from 2007 to 2013 has fallen from 748,000 hectares of useful agrarian surface to 655? Starting from a very small amount, with a very small percentage of useful agricultural surface, you, after making all plans – land mobility laws, etc. – are reduced to almost 100,000 hectares. And here, according to Mrs. Patricia Ulloa and Mrs. Rosa Quintana, the fault is for the gain, it is for the gain. When the lowest milk prices are charged in this country, nothing happens. What have you also done to ensure a regulatory framework that avoids abuse of industry's dominant position? What did they do? Today they have to sign what the industry puts on them, with contracts that are better blackmail than "you take it off," and they have to sign it. Nothing has changed with regard to four years ago, when Mr Feijóo signed an agreement with agricultural organizations in which he undertook to take action to resolve that issue. Nothing, they don't take responsibility for it either. Nor do they assume responsibilities for not even developing a strategic plan for the end of the quota system, which is ridiculous, ridiculous, of shame. They send rural development programmes, they have to answer to the European Commission saying: here is no mention of the impact of the end of the quota system on small and medium-sized farms. The Galician Rural Development Programme does not have to foresee that in 2015 the quotas of the dairy system will be finished; strict as much as possible. But, on the other hand, it's the gain. On the other hand, the Director General of Agricultural Production, or Rural Development, or the Counsellor asks for forgiveness for this lack of rigour. Nothing, we charge every month the same. On the other hand, the gainees don't charge every month the same. They're charging 21 cents of milk, with which they lose money, and they've been losing money for months. That's the difference: if a gangster makes mistakes, pay them with his own fight; instead, you don't pay anything, you don't even pay to get colored, because they've already lost that capacity.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u236	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u237	So – we're talking about it – of course we have to talk about alternatives, etc., but to a government that doesn't come here, or to a parliamentary group that doesn't come here honestly, that doesn't come here, that starts with the data, that takes the mistakes, that says: here we're not going well, we want to change, we can't have a serious debate, we can't debate. You follow with the triumphal speech, empty, that this is an opportunity, a scenario of an opportunity.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u238	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u239	They sit down and talk to the gangsters, listen to their problems and admit their mistakes and change. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u240	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. Socialist Group. You have the word of Mr. Pablo García.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u241	Thank you, President. Indeed, this must be the eighth initiative. I believe that we have been talking about the dairy sector for three months at all, with the same success: all initiatives have been absolutely rejected. By the way, Mrs. Pacín, these days they are disallowing their mayors. Your mayors are in the neighborhoods signing a backup document to the sector that tells you exactly what we told you here all opposition groups twice or three times each. Your mayors and your candidates, uh!, are signing that document and they're saying they're totally in favour of what that document says. You explain it, you explain it. It's more, I'm sure your mayor at Friol too the sign, I'm sure it will, if you do, tomorrow or last, you'll see as the sign, you'll see as the sign; if not, you'll have to explain it to Friol's, to see why not sign it. Because, of course, one thing is talking here. What's going on in this sector? You've been talking about this sector in the last three months in absolutely every forum. In Parliament I think we have done our homework, we have spoken. Even in the media, by the way, with a failure by the media, all of which are devoted to analysis. The analysis is super done, there's no one asking for responsibilities, because everything that's going on here is already said... well, by the way, we've already said it here, which appears to have been discovered by the media 15 days ago, 15 days ago. When we talk about it here, journalists usually do little, like those of the People's Party. But no one at all writes in this country a responsibility. And I'm going, and it's a shame that Mr Arias isn't here, because he was talking about critical analysis, the circumstances, the culprits, why we got to this situation, where the problem started. Is Mr. Feijóo guilty of this problem? Yes, he's guilty, directly. He started with Mr. Feijóo, started with him. So you can't find what I came from before. Today we already have contracts – as has already been said – at 20 cents, offers, pseudo offers of contracts at 20 cents. We're talking, there's no... of course, I'm not going to affect the lack of negotiation, the unilateral measures, the voluntary waivers that already come up with stamps on the contract itself. And all this, as has already been said here, we don't know what has to happen to the counselor... Mrs. Martínez, it's a lie, the counselor hasn't called the producers at a meeting they've been applying for for for a month and a half, yet she hasn't called them at a meeting. I mean, with everything they wrote in the papers, the big newspapers in this country, and those that mark the opinion in this country, and even on television, the councilman hasn't called the producers to a meeting after a month and a half, he hasn't called them yet. What has to happen in this matter for the advisor to say something? What did the counselor say at this time?, what did she do?, that she expressed with respect to this matter? Banalities, and in the worst case, as has already been said here, insults and transfer the problem to the affected themselves. And I come back with critical analysis, that which Mr Arias said before, because all this is going on wasn't very difficult to predict, and we've already said here that it was going to happen. It's happening what's logical is happening. All of this makes sense; it's more, its logic, the logic of the market. Or could anyone think – and we already said it here – that the Germans and the French, who are surpluses, before the imminent liberalisation and, therefore, without the corset of milk quota, would not intend to invade and continue to press and press the Spanish market further, which is a deficit? Or do you think the French and Germans would say the memesces Mr. Feijóo said that he was going to Mexico, to Cuba, or don't know where to export milk, when they have three million tons a year to consume? What's wrong? That Mr. Feijóo, instead of putting the mechanisms to protect and that that increase, that empty consumption that we could capture and produce,
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u242	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u243	...going around saying nonsense, that it was going to be going to Mexico or Cuba or India. Therefore, Mr. Feijóo is guilty. And all this is happening is not a divine punishment, it's the law of the market itself. If we have consumers here and we're debilitators, logically they have distribution and they have industry, they're going to try to tackle this country, the market in this country, before another kind of market is raised. So, what opportunities does the advisor talk about? The opportunity would be if we had protected this market and tried to produce us, but we told the owners that they had to produce less all these months. Today, the collection is no longer guaranteed in Galicia. Talk to the advisor of an opportunity to produce more and all the contracts tell the owners: no, I'm going to guarantee you 80% of the milk you've produced, and the other 20% we'll see. That's the new opportunity scene. In theory, the opportunity was to produce much more and expand our production.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u244	Finish it, Mr. Garcia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u245	And that's not what's happening. So I hope that the People's Party will vote for this initiative and, if not, tell their mayors and their voices to stop making the idiot, that they are not signing it around; or one thing or another, Mrs. Pacín. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u246	Thank you very much. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs. García Pacín has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u247	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies. Well, we've been listening to different disqualifications from those we've been used to, but if in the past debate about milk Mr. García qualified as the promotion or wanting to make dairy producers' organizations, today he has qualified the president's statements as a "membrax". Really, when arguments fail...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u248	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u249	...because alternatives and proposals see that there is nothing new in today's debate initiative, it is again to repeat the same issues, which I believe are the positions of all the well-known groups. And I know, Mrs. Paz, that I am not going to convince you; you said something very serious today, you said here in this gallery that if you should, I don't know if politically for the disqualifications to be accepted, but you spoke of failure to comply with European regulations and Spanish regulations. I understand that these regulations have to be changed, they have to be refined, they have to be corrected, as has been done with the real decree that amended the previous one in application of the milk package. Because, Mrs. Peace, when it comes to the issues you propose in your initiative, it speaks of measures. Mrs. Peace, what measures?, return to the milk table, return to the approved contracts? Ladies and gentlemen, contracts are mandatory for the first time. Really, I think we've moved forward a lot. If you don't want to see it, because it's true, you continue in your vision, which I don't know what target they pursue, but really, it's not the benefit of the producers or our farms. Because, Mr. Sánchez, you speak again that the useful agricultural surface in Galicia has been reduced, and I have told you in the same data that you refer to that Galicia was one of the only communities that has increased the useful agricultural surface by exploitation; that it is not enough, Mr. Sánchez, that nobody talks about that we are very good, no, we have to keep fighting all, and the opposition to the first. Because you have no choice, you have no proposal, you have no... [[Murmurs.]] You were speaking, Mrs. Peace, where the Government of the Union is in respect of the dairy sector. I wonder, where is the BNG?, where are the nationalist policies? Because you have their infinity. Look, look...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u250	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u251	...when everyone stays in the same direction, because here, gentlemen, no one has insulted the owners and the producers, even if they want to see it with their interpretations. All that was said here was that the milk package and the various royal decrees allowed dairy producers' organizations to create it. They allowed collective bargaining for the first time, but, of course, the Labrego Union says that there are many small ones to be done, that there is a need to reduce and modify the criteria and the conditions. Well, when we're all aware that the big problem here is that the weight in the construction of the original price and on the market is that producers are still at a disadvantage with regard to industry and distribution. Distribution which, by the way, is not in the Greek Interprofessional Milk. Yes, Mrs. Peace, that's where we have to be, when the whole industry, an important percentage is alien, which is not our community. We must continue to lead the National Interprofessional Milk... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u252	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u253	...as it is done, with Greek presidents. We have to keep betting on the sector, but on the union of the sector. Yes, the union of the sector, because you talk about issues, manipulates and modifies. You're talking about the framework defined by the Union...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u254	It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u255	...Europe, I mean, quotas disappear. What has been done since his disappearance was announced? What did you do when you had the opportunity to oppose that disappearance or seek soft landing? Do you remember? Yes, yes, but then also when the quotas were implanted, you were the first to be rejected, of course, you're right. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Yes. [[Mrs. Paz Franco utters words that are not perceived.]] What's really interesting, Mrs. Peace, is that here you're setting up four points that are not new because they have mandatory mediators...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u256	Silence, Mr. Peace!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u257	...stop the rules. Of course, with insubmission, you're right. Collective bargaining, because it doesn't exist, because as you speak...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u258	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u259	...bad producers. Actually, I think each one is responsible and the OPL here has a lot to say, so the milk package has been modified, so it's given more power to the OPL and so it's working on unifying...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u260	Thank you very much, Mrs. Pacín.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u261	...with Mr Feijóo's government, not with the opposition government.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u262	Thank you very much, Mrs. Pacín. Thank you very much. Motions vote
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u263	Well, we put the motions to the vote. We voted firstly on the motion by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr Méndez Romeu, who said that he did not accept the amendments tabled. We therefore voted on the motion as tabled. G.P. Motion vote. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr. José Luis Méndez Romeu, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in connection with tax fraud. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 31 votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u264	Yes, Mr. Vázquez? One affirmative vote, then affirmative votes, 31. I'm begging you all to be careful, if you don't... We then voted on the proposal by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, on the initiative of Mr Sánchez Bugallo, who said that he accepted the amendment of the BNG as an addition amendment. Text vote on the G.P. Motion. the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr José Antonio Sánchez Bugallo, on the establishment by the Italian Government of concrete and quantified housing commitments and their referral to the Parliament of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 31 votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u265	Finally, we voted on the motion by the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, at the initiative of Mrs Paz Franco, to which no amendments have been tabled. G.P. Motion vote. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da María Teresca Paz Franco, on the measures to be taken by the Government of Greece in relation to the situation that is going through the dairy sector. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 31 votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u266	We continue with the development of the agenda, with the point of non-legislative proposals. Non-legislative proposal by the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da Beatriz Sestayo Doce and two other Members, on the demand to be made by the Government of Greece to the Central Government in connection with the proposed reform of civil registers
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u267	No amendments have been tabled to this non-law proposal and Mrs. Sestayo has the floor to make it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u268	Thank you, President. Well, originally this parliamentary initiative that has to do with the privatization of civil records, the withdrawal of the reform of the People's Party that this parliamentary group called for, if there was an amendment by the People's Party, the People's Party's Parliamentary Group, which is actually sealed a few days ago and that it was registered on exactly April 27, i.e. yesterday, at 18.28 hours, when the People's Party, the Parliamentary Group of the People's Party of Galicia... Go away, Mr. Rueda, yes, sir, that's the interest in the justice of the Justice Counsellor and Vice President of the Galician Union. I am no doubt sorry for the public, the civil registry officials and officials, who are interested in Mr Rueda's debate of this parliamentary initiative. Well, as I said, the People's Parliamentary Group still yesterday had an amendment, which continued to insist on the maintenance of civil registry reform with the doctrine of always: reforms are required to ensure an effective administration of justice close to citizens, to take advantage of the advantages of new technologies, the maintenance of jobs and civil registry officials. It would only be necessary for the officials to stop being officials, that's what was left of the reforms of the People's Party, though, with the acceptance and approval of the Public Employment Act alone today, the fact is that little is lacking. Well, as we have already had endless debates on justice, on justice reform and on all reforms, since Mariano Rajoy arrived with respect to the Administration of Justice, with clear and direct aggressions concerning access to citizens' rights, as well as access to effective judicial protection, we thus speak of the judicial fee, which has resulted in the immediate challenge and the unique response of all and all legal operators working and working in the courts and courts, or the reform of the Organic Law of the Judiciary, whereby judicial demarcation is modified, – I don't know, president, because the fact is that...– or the Law amending the Civil Officer, together with those that refer to the Criminal Code, to the Law of Criminal Judgment, etc., etc. Well, the truth is that, well, we are facing ongoing reforms of aggression that have always been here asking us to withdraw and the Government of the People's Party and People's Parliamentary Group and Mr Feijóo actually voting against it again and again. Faced with this, Mr Feijóo's government – absent – was also absent from the demonstration on this reform. Sometimes Mr. Rueda said they were imposed reforms. If he saw that it was Galicia's jurisdiction in matters of justice, the Vice-President of the Galician Union could only do what he did now: dumb in the forum. Or when they said that actually – and this is recorded in the Journal of Sessions – when we were denouncing the different reforms, they announced that the socialists were creating social alarm. Months later they were always producing each of the reforms. Well, this happened with the Civil Registry reform, an institution that functioned perfectly, without any kind of complaint on the part of the citizenry, no reason to justify that an institution of the late 19th century, no complaints by the citizenry, good, as it had been modified; it was modified, when, well, they found a niche in the business of these new niches that the People's Party is looking for. In fact, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, on the reason for reform, for the privatization of the Civil Registry, the Director General of Justice – it is recorded on video, you can turn to the audiovisual archive of the Galician Parliament – replying to this honourable Member that, well, once the fall of the brick closed the business and the niche of the market for many people, obviously it would be necessary to look for these, well, vip bodies – certainly, that have a very close link to Mr. Rajoy, Mr. Gallardón, etc., etc. – for they would have to be looked for an alternative. Because, of course, workers and workers can suffer cuts, they can suffer work reforms, they can suffer free dismissal, workers and workers can suffer all kinds of unrest, employees and public employees can suffer all kinds of cuts, but man!, if we're talking about commercial registrants or property in their case, it won't be that they lose a business niche! And this happened in the Justice Committee of this Parliament, where it seemed normal to the Government of Mr Feijóo that he had to look for a niche of enrichment for the merchant registries. For this would be a reform that has been challenged, and I would like to publicly congratulate all civil servants and civil registry officials, who have achieved the social pressure that the People's Party felt not of any kind of guilt, that can be applied to a parliamentary group that moves so often by faith or that tries to move society so many times by faith, but rather through electoral panic. Indeed, in numerous councils, when the motions which this Socialist Parliamentary Group itself has sent in are beginning to start to panic at different surveys for which, well, we need to be careful, and Mariano Rajoy has to make corrections or paralysis or suspensions, which is what we are concerned about, suspensions – which we do not know for how long – of reforms undertaken, in this case in the field of justice. Indeed, the reform of the Civil Registry, which assumed a clear commercialization of an institution that is accessible – or that it should be accessible – to all citizens to make the most simple procedures of everyday life – one of the institutions that pass through the most citizens within the administration of justice; no doubt, all of us at any time pass or we will pass through civil records – well, because a reform was committed that would alienate the Register from the capitals of the province – this would happen the same as that deviation from justice that is intended for the reform of the organic law of the judiciary –, it would trade in a public service, with the result that business for certain VIP bodies, and, in addition, logically it would deteriorate a public service, when sensitive data from all citizens suddenly passed to the fact of commercialization, generating access to those sensitive data protected by the Data Protection Act that could pass on to such access to markets. That is why this parliamentary group presents an initiative for Parliament, this Parliament urges the Government of Greece to address the Central Government and calls for the withdrawal of the proposal for a reform of the commercialization of civil records. Indeed, on 21 April, Catalan communicated to the Dean of the College of Registrars – by the way, he did not address civil servants and civil record officials; once again, his interlocutors were mercantile registries, it was not only that he had disturbed the body – well, for he said they would paralyze that reform. Three days later he confirmed the possible abandonment of the transfer. But the truth is, you keep talking about paralysis, you keep talking about suspension. I've been picking up the hemerothec, as well as the different phrases that the minister issued, and he talks of paralysing, even today he talks of timeless suspension. Well, for a year, or perhaps less, maybe more – as there was now a phrase of a justice technician – probably that maybe less-perhaps more has to do with elections, the May 24 election and the November election, the general election of Mariano Rajoy. So this parliamentary group wants to make it clear that this reform is withdrawn, that reform of the mercantilization of...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u269	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u270	...civil records. We don't want a suspension without any more respect, well, because to that niche of market that is sought by the registrants, nor, well, to that pair that was done when the minister and leaders of the People's Party announced that the proceedings would be free, while at the back door, in the joint commission with the land registrants, they negotiated for example...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u271	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u272	...the price of the family books, something that, no doubt, we all went to the Register as well. So, once again, they disagreed and there was asymtonism between public statements and negotiations. What they wanted...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u273	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u274	...–end, Madam President – the merchant registries were even more money than the minister and that Mr. Mariano Rajoy, with the absent complicity of Mr. Feijóo, well, they were trying to make a mix of more tariffs.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u275	Thank you very much, Mrs. Sestayo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u276	Ladies and gentlemen, I hope that the People's Parliamentary Group will undoubtedly support this absolute withdrawal from the privatisation reform of the Civil Register. It's a shame that, once again, come with...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u277	Thank you very much, Mrs. Sestayo. Time's up. Mrs. Sestayo, your time is up. [[Mrs. Sestayo Twelve speaks words that are not perceived.]] No, he's gone. It's been more than a minute, Mrs. Sestayo. [[Mrs. Sestayo Twelve speaks words that are not perceived.]] Mrs. Sestayo, I'll leave you more than a minute. So you have a call to order. [[Applause]] Intervention of parliamentary groups. Joint Group. Mrs. Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u278	Well, I announce my support for this non-legislative proposal by the Socialist Party, since the action of the Government of Greece and the State, as well as of the Members and Members who support it, in respect of the euphemistically so-called Civil Registry reform is related to its desire to limit the right to effective judicial guardianship of a government which is behind citizenship and which uses institutions as a barricade in the defense of its friends, its interests, its party, its government; understand me well: of its government, government beyond Padornolo, Madrid, of those who deny us the right to live, to be and to decide, from whom we do not allow us to make use of our natural resources of what we benefit from, because I believe the receipt of light should be the same for all Spaniards, but not the price of fuels, these can be more expensive for the Galicians and the Galicians. When will the pensions and wages of the Galicians and the Greeks be equal to each other and conflict with the average, I say no more of the European Union, but of the state? However, in spite of the announcement of the withdrawal of the Civil Registry reform, we maintain – and so we ask this plenary – that the Greek Parliament should urge the Government to go to the Government of the State to permanently withdraw this reform. And we say definitely, because we have the conviction, as the Socialist Party now stated, that the withdrawal of the previous reform is conjunctural and postponed until the electoral circumstances and the emergence of more support so indicate. And this conviction that there is no such definitive withdrawal from this reform or destruction of a public service is based on the words of the Minister of Justice of the State Government, who said, "It would be absurd for the Government to make an effort to bring forward a reform that does not have the minimum necessary support." And then he added, "Let's look for a model that satisfies us all." So it's not a retreat, it's a delay caused by the electoral environment. The idea is not abandoned because it is considered negative for citizenship, it is not withdrawn from the opposition of all sectors to which one way or another affects the matter and the whole opposition. What concerns me – and I think we should all be concerned about it – is what lies behind the Minister's statement to look for a model that satisfies everyone. And I wonder, who doesn't meet the current model, besides the People's Party? Indeed, there was no social problem with the Register or anyone refused a public record, only the People's Party breaks that unity of all. We defend a Civil Registry accessible to citizenship, free and public, a Civil Register that guarantees the privacy of the confidential information it handles and that should never be in the hands of private companies. On the other hand, we have the Vice-President of the German Government, Mr Rueda, who welcomed the Minister's decision to park the reform, and uses the same arguments as the Minister, by doing the opposite of what he has done so far, which he was so quiet. Yes, the German Government, its president and vice president remained silent, they did not think, they did not report, they did not exercise their powers in the defence of the Greeks and the Greeks. This honourable Member is glad that his apathy had finally ended. Faced with your wish, Government gentlemen and Members of the People's Party, they face the mirror. The Aragonese Parliament has unanimously opposed any reform of civil records that has brought their privatization and does not guarantee freedom and access to service. Of course, he relied on the support of the People's Party in Aragon. I don't know what you guys are gonna do today. Perhaps the Aragonese Government, the Aragonese People's Party is more concerned about its citizens than the Union and the Galician People's Party are concerned about the rights of the Greeks and the Greeks. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u279	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. Mrs. Peace.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u280	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon to the people who accompany us from Parliament's rostrum, colleagues and colleagues, officials and officials of the Administration of Justice. I wanted to begin my intervention precisely by blessing the officials and officials of the Administration of Justice, who, with their mobilisations, were able to achieve the accession of an important social base of Welsh and Welsh citizens, and also in the rest of Spain, who without any place the doubt were those who motivated that on 21 April, when one month and three days were left for the holding of an election, the Middle People's Party left behind on this issue of privatization and commercialization of civil records. Because, on the other hand, it is a matter of what we have been talking about for a long time, of what we have been discussing for a long time, and, of course, there has never been any kind of provision by the People's Party, at least in this Parliament, or in the representation of the Government of the United States of Galicia, for going back to this situation. So I want, in addition, to congratulate you twice, because it has to be said that this does not affect public employees in terms of the loss of their job. In fact, they will continue to be officials, they will have to relocate them to the same place. And, therefore, it's not an individual, corporate defense of their jobs, yes of public employment, because this, of course, will lead to the creation of fewer public employment squares, but above all, a defence of the collective interest of the citizenry by continuing to maintain a public record that remains public and free for the whole of citizenship. It is a struggle in the name of the citizenship set to curb the mercantilization of the most intimate and confidential personal data of people. Because does anyone think there was some kind of guarantee in the rule that was approved through the Royal Legislative Decree 8/2014 that through that public company, whose creation is predicted, there would be no kind of commercialization with our data, with the data of all the people affected? I bless the officials because they have been able to fight against an economic interest which has a recognised amount in this Parliament of more than 300 million euros. Mr Martín, Director-General of Justice, acknowledged the opposition's questions in this Parliament that, in fact, this operation was intended to compensate the real estate registrants for the 300 million euros that were lost as a result of the decrease in real estate transactions. It's funny that, in addition, the People's Party, standing in a rule of 2011, which intended only to dejudicate the Civil Registry, which doesn't mean that it meant its privatization, take advantage of it to do a business for some with civil records. And now, indeed, we have a march back. What we don't know is how long this march will last, if it's temporary, if it's final, because, from now on, since this parliamentary group knows, there's no public document recorded in the Congress of Deputies, no bill, no bill proposing exactly what is going on behind the government. Because it doesn't stop being very curious about the legislative technique that this government has, which is allegedly processing a law of judicial demarcation, an organic law of judicial power and which, however, takes these kinds of decisions, for example, within the framework of the Royal Legislative Decree previously appointed, which has been urgent measures for growth, competitiveness and efficiency. So we have a mistrust, we believe that it is justified in view of the history of this government. We all saw Mr. Gallardón – when he was still a minister – in August he came here to Galicia, where there was a greater social response to the disappearance of the judicial parties and the creation of the courts of instance in the capitals of Vigo, which was what he was finally willing to do, to say that the organic law would be paralysed and that in a few months we would be approached by another drafting. We've never heard of that writing again...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u281	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u282	...and, therefore, we never again know if it will be effective or not. And finally, to finish, to say that we are going to vote for this initiative because, in addition, we have a mistrust of the demonstration made by Mr Catalá to find a model that satisfies everyone, because, of course, the model that satisfies the owners of the property, that we ransom them in those 300 million euros, I think it is not the model that satisfies the Nationalist Block Galego. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u283	Thank you, Mrs. Paz. Parliamentary Group of the Alternative Left Gallega, Mrs Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u284	Good afternoon. First of all, you welcome this House to the comrades and comrades of the judges and, of course, to congratulate them, because as in each of the steps that we are going forward, without any doubt, are the various groups of affected and affected who manage to overthrow this powerful wall that is being the People's Party. We could have two great headlines about what happens to the People's Party in Spain and to the People's Party in Galicia. Surely the first would be that the People's Party in Spain is drifting, they don't know what to do. And in this way it's only understood that permanently in hours they're rectified without knowing very well what to do in each of their policies. So without a doubt, this is a situation of absolute insecurity for the people of this country's good. But, secondly, we can say that the second headline concerning Mr. Rueda and the People's Party of Galicia, which leads to justice, although not with its own counseling, in this country, which, of course, are more papist than the Pope. And I say this because last week in Commission 1 this same voicer called upon the Director General of Justice on this issue and, of course, they were the champions of defending what Mr. Català does, at any price. Therefore, the most papist than the Pope. But the truth is, something's new. I have just noticed with all the unions that it is true that there are contacts and here is the press note itself, and all the trade unions from all over the state involved in this negotiation seem that they are likely to take a step back and it seems that they are likely as they publicly announce to repeal the Royal Decree Law 8/2014 and even Law 18/2014. Let's assume that this which is issued from the Ministry of Justice, and even today at this very moment is coming to the control session in the Senate, Mr. Catalá, and we hope that they are serious and that, of course, they comply with what they're saying in the public media and even what they're saying to the unions of the state as a whole. What happens is that the question is that, indeed, of course, it must be voted on here in Parliament, and today it is better than ever. Because if this is the case, we assume that at the People's Party stands to vote in favour of this initiative. If it is true that they have political will as the Ministry of Justice is reflecting on this issue, because we assume that they will say yes to the proposal brought to this House, and we assume that it will be so, above all that they rectify their policies. Because I do want to remind you of a question that is worrying, that is, there were two niches of business here: a business that was actually translated to these friends of Mr. Rajoy, to grant them nothing more and nothing less than that succulent business that they would charge for, although in the definition it was said to be a free service, but that they would proceed to charge for the certifications that were issued, and they made themselves compulsory a series of transactions that today are not compulsory; but there was a second business block very relevant, which was nothing more and nothing less than the translation of all the data of nothing more and nothing less than the entire state. Imagine what it costs in economic terms! And with an alleged character, bound by of course that data to a brother of Mr. Mariano Rajoy, Enrique Rajoy Brey, at the season – as I said – the brother I insist on doing business with. Think about or think about the relevance of the business that owns all this data. But the serious issue is that as you know in April, there was a management order for EUR 4 million for a part of this issue, which is just the nationality records. And I want to remember a question here and I feel like Mr. Rueda isn't here. The Director General of Justice, at the Commission's 1st control session last week, said one big thing, which I mean here: he justified the management order for 4 million euros, that's right, the free service, but 4 million euros that Juan Pueblo pays, because the service worked badly. Well, as officials and staff are here, I'm going to say, and so they say the evaluation surveys, that the Civil Registry is actually the best-valued service by the citizenship of this country and the state as a whole. If there's anything that has to be in public hands, just like the tax inspection, it's exactly all that's going on in civil registry matters. So, of course, this was a historic error of the People's Party, and we hope that today's announcement will be final. Therefore, Mrs. Sestayo, I believe that despite the papyism, more papyism than the Pope, of the People's Party of Galicia last week because on this occasion the People's Party here today press the button to say yes, because they are announcing that they will give you a tour...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u285	Please finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u286	...–and I'm done.– The work is done, it's called socializing losses and privatizing benefits. It was hard to scan the Civil Registry more than 128 million euros, which we are now going to put on the table in the case of Galicia because of only five commercial registries. We'll see how this question remains. In any case, I suppose in coherence today the People's Party will vote favourably.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u287	Thank you, Mrs. Díaz. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u288	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. Sestayo, you're not in a position to pass the list after you've been missing from this House for more than two months. I suppose your return is due to the panic that has caused you to check the unfortunate result of the polls at Ferrol, which confirm that you will bring out the worst result of the history of the Socialist Ferrol Party, evaluations of the candidates on the margins. [[Applause]] Well, but in any case, welcome to the debate, Mrs Sestayo, welcome back to the debate in this House. [[Interruptions.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u289	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u290	Mrs. Peace and Mrs. Díaz, less bad than Mr. Martín's appearance is recorded, because his level of demagogy... I know you don't like it, but it's reality. [[Interruptions.]] I've been working with Mr. Bugallo for two months in the Civil Service Act, being the spokeswoman of public service to Mrs. Sestayo. [[Murmurs.]] I wonder where you've been these two months, while the groups were discussing and...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u291	Mrs. Prado, on the matter.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u292	...we worked on our spokespersons. [[Murmurs.]] In any case, Mrs. Peace, it's less bad that the appearances are recorded, because their level of demagogy and lying has no limit. I didn't think you were suspicious of everything, because if the truth is that you act like you are, with this falsehood and this lie, I'm not surprised that you are suspicious of everyone else. But, look, we're not all the same. And Mrs. Díaz, we're going to drift, but you're going to take the tides, and there's the surveys. [[Murmurs.]] Mrs. Pontón, you have enough to say, too. Well, as far as the issue is concerned, civil registry management is an issue that is state competence, and so within that framework, the legislator... [[Murmurs.]] Either stop me or let me talk, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u293	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u294	I have listened very carefully to the barbarities that...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u295	Silence! Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u296	...they said from this rostrum. I know they don't like it, but I heard...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u297	Quiet, I understand there's tiredness, but a little quiet and we'll end up first. Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u298	Well, in the past legislation passed Law 20/2011, of July 21, the impulse of the former socialist government, being Minister of Justice Mr. Caamaño. Normology that created a new model of Civil Registry, which assumed a radical change in the conception that until then had the Register, where its rise was attributed to the Administration of Justice. Well, the socialist law of 2011 was unanimously adopted and the central idea was based on the de juridicalization of the Register, because its tasks were administrative and non-judicial, and in this way the current human resources, judges, secretaries and officials were used to work in the Administration of Justice. For the same reason, the future officers had nothing to do with the judicial officers, or, in any case, to opt for some of them for the new model, it would go beyond the body of officials of justice. Well, I'm aware of the difficulties that this change was experiencing in 2011 because it brought this rule into force three years ago, a deadline that was last July of 2014. And after the date of entry into force and before the possibility of its operation, Royal Decree 8/2014, which after its validation in the Courts, and the current Law 18/2014, by which the entry into force was postponed another year, until July of this year, was ensured in the law the freeness of the services for the citizen, was entrusted to the Registrars of the Mercantian registries. But, ladies and gentlemen, with these decisions there is no commercialization of civil records, which is what you want us to vote for today. An initiative, dated September, where they speak of the minister as Gallardón and where they talk of commercialization of civil records. No, none of these three issues are present today. Because look: the law passed by the People's Party, on 18/2014, is that which expressly determines the freeness of the service, which was not adopted by the law of 2011 of the Socialist Government and of the Minister of Canaan. And I ask, ladies and gentlemen, where is the business of a supposed mercantilization when the opposition itself claims that property registrants don't want to take over the service, or that they want more, or that they didn't agree because they weren't given money? Well, if it was a business, why do you object?; if it was a business – as you say – why didn't the registries want to take it? Well, look, what we say, ladies and gentlemen, is that four days ago – specifically on April 24, – the Minister of Justice announced the revision of the civil registry management reform to achieve a greater degree of consensus with the professionals in the sector, without abandoning the necessary idea of dejudication. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u299	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u300	And, look, the minister didn't tell the interlocutors that you said, because the minister in parliamentary office already, and therefore being his interlocutors the citizens' representatives, he said specifically: "We are absolutely willing to work with the groups to find the best model to develop the Law 20/2011 which adopted this House by a majority of the groups. I will be delighted to know the proposal of your group and of many others... "that have also been manifested in this matter"... [[Murmurs.]] [[Interruptions.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u301	I'm compensating for interruptions. Finish it, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u302	..."the judicial secretaries carry it, the judges carry it, the municipal secretaries take it." So, ladies... [[Interruptions.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u303	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u304	...we maintain that the minister's position is to achieve...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u305	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u306	...a consensus.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u307	Finish it, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u308	That is the totalitarianism that characterizes them. [[Interruptions.]] When Mrs. Sestayo, because, of course, she hasn't spoken for two months...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u309	Finish. It's over, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u310	...he needed more time to talk...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u311	Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u312	...you gave her time for the presidency...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u313	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u314	...they didn't say anything...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u315	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u316	...and now they intend to silence this honourable Member.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u317	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u318	There's no problem, because they don't like it...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u319	Thank you, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u320	...there's no problem.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u321	Thank you. Author group of the proposal, Mrs. Sestayo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u322	Excuse me, give a voice to Mrs. Sestayo's chair, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u323	Thank you. My colleague Abel Losada used to do poetry in this Parliament, which is difficult, and I also want to say, "I like it when you shut up because you're gone," Neruda. Because the truth is, Mrs. Prado, we didn't know if you needed an inquiry to decide what you're going to vote for tomorrow or if you keep advertising your self-secret. By the way, it must be the only person who has a self-secret in the Administration of Justice, and watch that I've spent years in this. [[Applause]] I also see you're very worried because I'm not the spokesperson of a law. I suppose you won't like to measure with Mr. Bugallo. By the way, those same polls before the election gave him four concelers on his day, when he was mayor of Santiago to his grief, Mrs. Paula Prado, with nine. But if I'm going to respect public officials, I see that you're keeping the same with the Civil Registry Act that keeps your pockets of crime. So, look, the truth is, Mrs Prado, the reform of the administration of justice – as you know, commissioned by the Zapatero Administration – spoke of dejudication. I, the truth, that at this point in time they understand dejudicization with privatization, I know that the perversion of the language of the People's Party is well known, but it is still curious. However, when he offers the body of judicial secretaries – as he acknowledges that Zapatero admitted the lifting of civil records – of course, Mr. Catalá also says that he will not be commissioned, but will study it in a while, which is not yet known what the model will be. You keep saying you are subject to what the minister will say. Well, once again we have a completely absent Government of Galicia – yes, Mr. Feijóo absent, Mr. Rueda absent – of a debate in which they have been portrayed here voting in favour of the privatization of the Civil Registry, admitting that they needed to give business to those who suffered the fall of the brick and that now looted have to be away from this plenary before the officials, who are the ones who have been keeping the debate alive every day on each street, in each of the civil records. In fact, election times are coming, which is the only thing that works for the pressure of the People's Party. The continued sovereignty does not allow them to admit that they were wrong with a reform they intended to annihilate a public service that is immensely valued here. But besides, you were interested in your desire to have another database for commercial records, those databases for insurance entities, and for other profit-oriented entities, which goes pretty well with the People's Party.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u324	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u325	So we ask for the withdrawal of this reform, you guys when they solve the survey – I don't know whether they're going to pay it or not – because tomorrow they're counting on it by voting. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u326	Thank you, Mrs. Sestayo. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. Together, at the initiative of Da Carmen Iglesias Sueiro and Da María Consuelo Martínez García, on the performances to be carried out by the Government of Greece in connection with the project of overthrowing the building of the Youth House, located in the square of the Matadoiro de Santiago de Compostela
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u327	This motion for a non-law amendment by the Socialist Parliamentary Group was tabled.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u328	For the defense of the amendment, Mrs Iglesias has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u329	...Well. We bring here this initiative to save the home of the Youth of Santiago. And I want to start my speech by indicating that the procedure is admitted to the cautious paralysis of the overthrow of the Youth House. It is that the overthrow would constitute an urban infringement because it is contrary to the special plan for the protection of the old town, which protects the structure and alignments of the slaughterhouse square, and that for the building only proposes a treatment of its facades to improve the environmental integration of the building together. But let's see what we're talking about. We speak of the home of the Youth of Santiago de Compostela, a building located in the Matadoiro square and whose construction corresponds to an architect called Severino González, there by the eighties, in a sound that has always had a building since the 16th century. Its construction – to speak in favour of the building that has been so vicious – has helped in its time to preserve the city's nascent cliff and created excellent public spaces, such as the great central space or the small amphitheatre of steps. Well, the building, the place, the square of the slaughterhouse, the place where the building is located is from the 18th century an urbanized closed space, which would lose its character of the square if the building was demolished. In the year 2014 the Town Hall of Santiago recovers the title of this building, which had been in the hands of the Union, and decides to overthrow it. As he decides to overthrow it, he assigns the project to an architect assigned directly, without passing through public and open competition, and without giving a voice to the citizenry, who, as he disagrees, is organized in the Citizen Defense Platform, the Public Saves the Youth House. Since the Platform, they argue that the spending of public money cannot be justified in order to destroy a building in conditions of use, but that it would need to be conditioned to make it available to the city of Santiago, fulfilling the socio-cultural use for what was created. Because such a building has an auditorium and multipurpose rooms, among others, that are found, despite the absence of maintenance, in very good conditions. His overthrow would also have a cost that I think we can't afford in these days of austerity. The cost is very high, it's 165,000 euros for the demolition of the area plus 575,000, and this is to be added to the property loss of the building, valued in a million euros. In addition, the Platform denounces a resource presented in the council on 31 December that the overthrow violates the Law of the Land, the Law of Galician Cultural Heritage and the Special Plan of Protection of the Historical City, which protects the structure and alignments of the Matadoiro Square. Clara Fernández, architect, maintains that the building is still in force because of the flexibility of its uses with mobile boards, open spaces and continuous circulars. Ricardo Varela, also an architect, maintains: "The removal of the building is an urban and cultural error. To remove one of the flanks of the Matadoiro square to access frontally the head of the Belvís park is an urban error – which is the pretext they put to overthrow – "and cultural, because it means emptying the historical fabric of the city and altering the physionomy of the old gardens". And remember that the alignments and the plot, according to Galician Cultural Heritage Act, are one of the determining elements that deserve special protection. With regard to access to the Belvís Park, used as a pretext for demolition, there are alternative proposals such as those proposed by Ricardo Varela himself, and as the vigor special plan, which formulates access through the continuous plot or connection to the park through the building itself. This is an example in the city of Ourense, which is the civic center of Columbus, which is superbly communicating the square one more street, the street of Columbus. In addition, the park has nine accesses from different areas, which is that they are not in good conditions of signaling and lighting. The Platform I'm referring to is carrying out actions before the Town Hall, the Valedor, the General Directorate of Heritage and the Prosecutor's Office. I've already said at first that the procedure has been admitted...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u330	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u331	...the cautious paralysis of the overthrow. The privileged location of the building makes it the only one of these characteristics in the old city, and it could become an important social and cultural dynamizer in that area of the city, a space suitable for providing service to activities of children and children, older people, associationism, exhibition, places of rehearsal, meetings, forums... and we must also take into account that Santiago has an increasingly busy old city in tourism than in the resident population. This building may become the axis that links the inhabitants with services and awareness of the neighborhood, thus palliating the growing trend of the theme park that is suffering from the old helmet of Santiago de Compostela. For all this, we are presenting this initiative, which is a citizen demand-driven initiative that represents the Platform I mentioned earlier, which we hope will be approved by this Parliament. Thank you very much, but nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u332	Thank you, Mrs Iglesias. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Sánchez Bugallo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u333	Thank you again, Mr President. And again good afternoon to all Members present. Well, in 1975, an agreement was signed between that mayor of Santiago and the corresponding councillor, so the Town Hall gave up for twenty-five years a space, which was the old slaughterhouse, at the Galician Junta, and in exchange for the Galician Junta to make a house, a building that would be dedicated to Thursdays, where they would have a preferential use by youth associations. This led to a project in charge of Junta, a municipal license, and in 1989 the construction and opening of this building had been completed. As was said before, the assignment was for twenty-five years; therefore, it was fulfilled in 2014 and in 2014 returned the property to municipal ownership. I have to say about that several things: The first one, which at that time when this building was built and the old 16th century building was demolished – which was the old municipal slaughterhouse, which at that time was the municipal mobile park that was installed there – among the citizens there was a division of views. There were those who thought it was a mistake, or we recognized it was a mistake, and those who thought it was a mistake, and it didn't fit in that square in any way. The truth is, it was the object of absolute and unanimous criticism. I remember a very interesting discussion -- in which I was present -- between a mayor and a medical citizen, who told the mayor, he insisted on criticism, and finally the mayor finally solved it by saying, "Well, the difference between doctors and architects is that doctors bury your mistakes, and architects stay there ninety years to see them all around the world." I'm not going to go in if that was a mistake or a horror then, what happens is that at the end we all get used to and fit that picture, and what we at one point saw as something wrong because at the end it ends up becoming part of the landscape and being integrated into it. I have to say that at the time when I was mayor of Santiago, so there was no doubt about it, we had planned and expected the return of the building to knock it down, because our intention was to install a cable car, which would have its way out from the Belvis Park and which would join the City of Culture, and so that was the access to that cable car. Today, the story of the cable car looks like science fiction and gives the impression that it has no virtuality and there will be no cable car. Therefore, let today's plan merely to take the building out to remodel the square and open the passage to the Belvís Park. The question we are considering, ladies and gentlemen, is whether we are living on the economic stage in our own country and in the absence of any amount of appropriations, and specifically in the amount of appropriations dedicated to Thursdays, if there is no clear use for that space, if it makes sense to bring down that building. That is why we tabled a replacement amendment, which if accepted we would vote in favour and if not accepted we would abstain. Our amendment says this: "The Parliament urges the Council of Galicia to transfer to the Town Hall of Santiago the proposal to temporarily suspend the overthrow of the Youth House, located in the Matadoiro square, making it available to citizens, especially on Thursdays, the so-called building, for socio-cultural use." We from the initial proposal, which contains three aspects, there are at least two things we can't assume. One of them is that this Parliament paralyzes or urges the Union to paralyze this action. We think it would be an invasion of municipal jurisdiction. The modification of the special plan and the municipal licence are within the exclusive competences of the Town Hall of Santiago, because it is a consolidated urban soil and because the modification of the special plan has provided the objective and binding favourable report of the General Directorate of Historical-Artistic Heritage. We also do not agree to open any inquiry into this Parliament, because we do not have any doubts about the legality of the agreement, beyond which it is legitimately reasonable for everyone to have their opinion, nor do we believe that this Parliament should be the body dedicated to these things. And already protecting the building, man!, whether it's a mistake, it's a horror or we accept it, but as much as protecting it, it seems to me that there's no reason to justify declaring that building well protected, and of course it has no connection with the buildings around it. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u334	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez Bugallo. The doctors didn't run too fast. Forgive me the joke, but, well, it's okay. Parliamentary Group of the Galician Nationalist Block, Mrs Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u335	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Very good night. I would like to start by making a very brief story, because you will understand that five minutes give very little to a debate that I think would require much more in relation to what we are dealing with today, that I also have to say that it seems by the very competences of the City Hall of Santiago de Compostela than in this Parliament. In any case, in 2010 there was a congress that promoted Santiago de Compostela's own Town Hall, which was called "The Intuited City". A congress in which numerous architects participated and what was intended to be done was to reflect on the evolution of the city of Santiago de Compostela until the year 2021. A congress that if you visit your website will see that one of your intentions was to promote a whole process of reflection to intervene in public space, not only from what can be considered urban management, but to think about, redesign and make an important change about the possibilities that Santiago de Compostela's own city had, and in particular the contour of the historical helmet, and as different architects also programmed or saw possibilities that the city of Santiago de Compostela had of development. One of these proposals – not the only one – was to build a new public space in the Matadoiro square, understanding that there is a problem in accessing one of the urban parks, I think that one of the most beautiful – for me at least – has the city of Santiago de Compostela, also one of the most unknown, because it is true that, like the plot itself, there is a very important part of people who live or visit the city that do not know this space and therefore within the slaughterhouse square itself there was a possibility of giving a different entrance to that park. That was one of the reflections behind this proposal. And this was a proposal that was picked up, that our group at the municipal level picked up and crystallized in a plenary agreement. Now, said this, we also believe that right now in the city of Santiago de Compostela there are a number of debates and a number of conditionalities in relation to this matter that must be taken into account and that for us they are not, of course, minor. The first is that we believe that the management that the Popular Party Municipal Group has done is not a good management in this matter. First, there are doubts about the legality of this whole process. In fact, the overthrow of the Youth House is paralyzed by a judicial order, because there is a demand that is, therefore, in this case, at this moment, on trial and that will be in judicial headquarters where the legality of this matter will finally be determined. Because for some strange reason the People's Party also denied that this question could be settled. We also understand that if a judge is investigating this and has admitted the lawsuit, something will be wrong in the processing of this whole process. We also believe that there is a citizen demand, that there is a social platform that opens a debate about what should be the priority of public resources, in this case in relation to the affected neighborhood, which would be the neighborhood of San Pedro, and that, therefore, the first thing this government had to have done was to listen to, dialogue and open a public debate in the city about, really, what should be the use of that space and the redesign of a public space like the square of the slaughterhouse. It also seems to us that the problem or, of course, the situation that has been created is not at all reasonable, that it is not logical that the only project that exists is a project of overthrowing a public space, without knowing what will happen, as this intervention will be, if there is going to be a solution, for example, to the problem of that water, which is below the square and which is clearly contaminated. That is, right now, the logic would be to open a debate on whether this is a solution or not, whether there are other intermediate solutions, and therefore to provide another kind of attitude by the public authorities in relation to citizen demands. In that sense, we, although we understand that the third point of the joint initiative presented by the Joint Group is the possibility of opening this debate, which we believe is an important debate and that it would be an interesting debate even in the reformulation of this whole neighborhood, which is very important in the cultural, social activity, in the associative life of the city itself, well, well, although we understand that this point specifically surrounds that possibility, if we are going to vote in favour, because we believe that today what is being said to us, what is being said to us – is whether or not we are in favour of an action that is taking forward at the Santiago de Compostela Council. And the BNG has already expressed its distances in relation to how this entire process has been handled by the People's Party...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u336	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u337	...and, above all, the need for you to listen when there is a demand, because in this case there is an important group of neighbors and neighbors who want to reconsider a position. I think that's logical, that's democracy, and that's what BNG is going to support today.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u338	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Parliamentary Group of the Alternative Left Gallega, Mr Ron.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u339	Good afternoon again. With this initiative it is true that, as we have already said, we are talking about almost a aspect of local competition. However, there are aspects that rise, and one of them may indeed be the lack of clarity about the legality that leads to the collapse and the change of land use that is foreseen for the area. In fact, the judicial demand... - let's say - the provisional paralysis of the overthrow obeys, precisely, a demand that has interfered, and therefore there are supposed irregularities that will be settled. In any case, with regard to this building we have always spoken and much – as Mr Bugallo has said – for good and for bad, we hear all kinds of aspects. But today, what we are talking about is certainly in the current context. In the current context, time teaches that sometimes we go wrong and sometimes we have to learn from mistakes to improve. For example, learn that there are buildings that at first, with a aesthetic criterion only, we qualify as a faism, but that within them becomes life, a certain social use takes place. Therefore, it is necessary to take into account, precisely, that life which citizenship gives you or wants to give to a building vilipindiated by a criterion, sometimes formalistic or aesthetic, which must, of course, in our understanding, now to banish. Above all, because enduring in mistakes is what makes – our understanding – for example, the Local Government Board of the Compostelan Council when December 4, 2014 talks about the Youth House and proposes the demolition of the building, facilitating accessibility to the Belvís Park. This is how – in our understanding – wrong justification, that is to say, to access the Belvís Park there is no need to overthrow the building, because, in fact, the Special Plan of the Historical Helmet already envisages an alternative possibility in the beautiful space. If you have to act in the Matadoiro square, act to promote the accessibility of people with functional diversity, for all people, so that you can access the park through a well-conditioned entrance that allows living with the building, also in a dignified manner for their sociocultural use, so that citizenship, the neighborhood of the neighborhood can take advantage of it. The Council's proposal, in addition, we had the opportunity to look at the simulation, for our understanding to be attentive to the notion of natural green space, garden space, plot, and knew the channeling of the river in addition and an intervention, for us, in the excessive square. We believe that – as we said – there are alternatives for access that combines, precisely, the use of building for neighbourhood and for an entrance to the Belvis Park not too abusive as is the plan that is projected from the Town Hall. In addition, the alternatives offered in this current context, in which citizenship is told that there is no money for social services, that there is no money for certain modes of transport, which there is no money to make certain street arrangements, which there is no money, etc., because it turns out that it is intended to overthrow, and the overthrow itself is budgeted at 165,000 euros. And 500,000 euros is what the Town Hall is planning to intervene in the square and make the 4 meters wide opening to the Belvís Park. And then there's the very heritage of the building currently standing, valued in a million euros. And then we also have to calculate the intangible heritage, because sometimes we forget that we used to use spaces that by an aesthetic criterion some qualify for feism, but it's like when you come out in those photos of newspaper a house of a person who is qualified for feism, without thinking that in that house people live and that there are human lives that are made there and that make their life project. And, therefore, we understand that an aesthetic criterion cannot be imposed on the social use of a neighborhood, of a neighborhood, that what you claim is to have, precisely, space to make your life in community and what you claim, simply, is that this building is conditioned. Yes, we will defend this initiative. So, and we understand that it is necessary, in addition, to investigate why so much concern, why the change of use and why the special plan of the historical helmet is not respected. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u340	Thank you, Mr. Ron. People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Freire.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u341	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon, gentlemen. It is surprising to hear some of the positions mentioned here a few moments ago, especially when we must bear in mind that on the side of the Town Hall in Pleno de Santiago unanimously agreed – I repeat – of all groups in the Plenary session that took place on 28 June 2012 the change in the use of the reservation of sociocultural equipment of the Special Protection and Rehabilitation Plan of the Historical-House of the Youth and Square of the Matadore, in order to comply with the unanimous plenary agreement adopted by its members on 16 November 2012 to connect the Belvis Park with the Road Door by way of the lower building that houses the Youth House. And I say it's surprising that at that time this initiative was based on a proposal from the Galego Nationalist Block, that this proposal was also included and was part of the government program with which the Galego Nationalist Block competed for the last municipal elections in May 2011, and that is why it was received as a good news at its time the intention of the current Government of Santiago to proceed with the necessary management in order to carry out this action. But it's seen that since then the positions have changed or changed the way some of their representatives think. But it is also interesting to see the Socialist Party's position, since at the time Mercedes Rosón Ferreiro did intervene and indicated that it was advisable to exercise a small collective memory on the question posed by the proposal of the Galego Nationalist Block, because this idea had been proposed about four years ago by the Consortium of the City of Santiago, managed at that time by Mr. Jose Manuel Villanueva and chaired by the then mayor of Santiago, Mr. Jose Antonio Sánchez Bugallo. At that point there seemed to be a struggle to see who it was that had initially proposed. And it also turns out curious, Mr. Bugallo, to listen to his position at this moment, but anyway, he added to Mrs. Rosón, that "in any case his group agrees with the proposal of the Galego Nationalist Block", on the understanding that "the building that houses the Youth House is not the right one, that has an excessive volume and that the treatment of the rear is very bad"—textual words of Mrs. Rosón. By closing the debate, the Full of Corporation, unanimously, adopted a series of agreements that I am not going to detail now. And as a result, on January 20, 2012, the head of service of the Municipal Office of the Historical City and Rehabilitation issued a report assessing the convenience of addressing the top of the building known as the Youth House, located in the Matadoiro square. The report concluded with the convenience of incorporating the plot into the public free space system of the Belvís Park, with the result that it fell from the existing building. But he also advised that the demolition project had been accompanied by a rehabilitation project in the area. And so it was done, since the processing of the dossier complied with the procedure regulated in Article 47.4 of the Louga, counting on a report of the General Directorate of Cultural Heritage, no recourse was presented at that time to the said agreement in time and form, and at the same time the special plan establishes, among other management objectives, the formalization of the start-up of the urban park of Belvis through the door of the slaughterhouse. Both in the processing of the modification of uses and in the processing of the demolition file met the conditions of the resolution of the Director General of Cultural Heritage in a report signed on 8 June 2012. Building is neither in the Catalogue of the Special Plan for the Protection and Rehabilitation of the Historical City – as it has already been said – nor in the Catalogue of the General Plan for Urban Management. The building is part of the unlisted heritage, and as pointed out in Article 73 of the special plan are those that do not present architectural values or historical or environmental interest. Also say that, as I previously reflected, the demolition project is accompanied by the reurbanization project of the free space that it forms. And also to say that there is currently a plan to transfer the service that is provided in the Youth House to a municipal place of nearly five square meters of surface, in the city center, a place that is located on General Pardignes Street, through a free transfer of use, so there will be no decrease in the service for the users, the ones that will follow...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u342	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u343	...preparing better conditions when it comes to a new, unused, better location and better supplies. We therefore believe that this initiative should be rejected. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u344	Thank you, Mr. Freire. Author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs Iglesias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u345	Thank you, Mr. President. What's surprising is that they don't take into account what I said when I first spoke: the procedure is allowed to paralyze the careful overthrow of the Youth House. Saturday, April 11. First story. Second story. In the process of changing the use of appropriations there is no record of the submission to the preceptive public information process required by the State Land Law, RDL 2/2208, in its Articles 4 and 11; this being an procedural deficiency which determines the nullity of the agreement adopted by the Full Municipal Corporation of June 28, 2012, in which you intend to base yourself. And the opening of the Belvís Park to the city is already provided for by municipal law, through the plot situated on the other side of the river of Canelón, without needing to overthrow any, and executed and is already done. The supposed damage of the building, a totally subjective concept – there are those who like it very much – is easy and economically unsanitable; it would suffice with an intervention already reflected in municipal legislation. Furthermore, no mention has been made here of the damage that can be suffered by the beautiful Belvís Park, which will inevitably be used as an access route for trucks and machinery to carry out demolition. Mr. Sánchez, in 2008 the Official College of Galician Architects is protesting against a cable car. And this is a demonstration by the Official College of Galician Architects in 2008. I suppose they'll have criteria and they'll be accredited to take an opinion on such a topic. On the other hand, I repeat that spending public money on tearing down a building in full conditions of use – it is great inside – it is not admissible, it cannot be contemplated. And you have to think about this way of denying, denying, denying that there are dark urban interests and speculatives behind all this. In fact, the architect who was hired when the project was approved, was hired – I said – without transparency at all. The amendment tabled by the Socialist Party makes no sense; it doesn't make sense because it's already said by the news I said at the beginning. We don't need that amendment to stop the overthrow. And what I did, I offered you a transactional, they didn't accept it, because I wanted to keep point 2, because I find it very important that this honourable Member's research on the legality of the procedure was approved by the project of overthrow of the Youth House building, including the legality of the enlargement agreement – already finished – and the change in the use of the plot. Thank you very much, the Galician Nationalist Block and the AGE for your support. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u346	Do you accept the amendment of the Socialist Parliamentary Group?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u347	No, I said it, president. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u348	I didn't understand it. Excuse me. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] It couldn't have been a moment when I was talking on the phone to Mrs. Gallego. Excuse me. [[Murmurs.]] But I have already apologized to Mrs. Churches. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. People of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr Hippolito Farínas Sobrino and seven other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia to enable, from the point of view of the autonomy of educational centres, the progressive implementation of chess in a cross-sectional and specific nature in primary education curricula and ESO
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u349	Amendments to this proposal were tabled by the Joint Parliamentary Group, the Socialist Parliamentary Group and the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u350	For the defense of the non-law proposition, Mr. Farinhas has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u351	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good evening, gentlemen. Today, the People's Parliamentary Group is proposing a non-law on the inclusion of a new cross-sectional discipline within the curriculum of primary and secondary education. We're talking about chess, a discipline that has reached a very important relevance and that its origin causes different conflicts with different countries and peoples, which practically all of us, gives equal to the latitude we speak, each one is attributed to its creation – I insist – due to the relevance it has achieved. There's practically no people who don't give their invention. This lack of historical confirmation also makes a remarkable contribution to the birth over the centuries of multiple stories and legends that are also attributed to its creation. Of all perhaps the most known is that of Lahur Sisa, a young Hindu. In one of his variants, he tells the legend that a ruler of India to defend his city can defeat the invaders with a great strategy despite having fewer soldiers. Despite this victory, the sadness overwhelms him because in that war-flag he lost his only son, who was the heir prince of his throne. Neither prayer nor gift nor entertainment could alleviate their sadness until Lahur arrived and offered him in audience a new game that he did not know. Explained by the rules, Lahur in one of the games defeats the sovereign and explains that this defeat results in defense of uselessly a bishop, who represents the prince, but that sometimes it is necessary to sacrifice one of these pieces to maintain the position of privilege in a match, or, as had happened in the battle, in order to maintain the peace and freedom of the people. The contented sovereign gets the joy, and on the basis of that joy, he proposes that he choose the gift he likes most. And in the general laughter of the entire court, Lahur asks for a grain of wheat for the first house, twice for the second, twice for the third and so on, to which the monarch explains to his vassals that give him a bag of wheat grains. Lahur reacts and says there's not big enough in the bag or large enough in all the territory of India to pay the debt the sovereign committed himself to. So the palace mathematicians count and the conclusion is that planting the entire territory of India for a century there would not be enough grain to pay off the debt. This legend may be true or may be false, it may be a legend or not, but what if it gives us is the true dimension, the extraordinary dimension that can achieve a game, both from the point of human values and from the point of purely commercialism. The importance of this game, which can be played in itself, of sport, of science, of art... any one of them would be attributable, and I'm sure some more given its importance, as well as pedagogical, which is the one that occupies us here today in this proposal. The European Parliament made a specific declaration on 15 March 2012 for chess in school to be incorporated into the educational systems of the European Union, marking the beneficial effects that chess could have on children of any age, based on scientific evidence, including, for example, creativity, intuition, memory or ease of developing skills and values such as motivation, determination and deportability. The Congress of Deputies, at the initiative of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and with a compromise from the People's Parliamentary Group, also adopted an initiative for the specific implementation of chess practice in schools, also in public spaces and their momentum as sport. The efficiency and relevance of chess as a pedagogical tool in which all initiatives are influenced are based on rigorous and highly varied scientific studies of many nationalities. But I would like to highlight one that, for the closeness that touches me and for the bond, deserves to be reflected in this House. I'm referring to the one developed in 1993, two years before UNESCO had recommended its incorporation into school curricula, to a project developed in a Fene school, headed by the Russian-made at Ferrol Boris Zlotnik, doctor in Pedagogy, former Professor of Chess at the University of Moscow, who has studied with boys and girls aged 7 and 5. Finally, after applying the Raven test, he concluded that 7-year-olds and boys had improved by 65% and 5-year-olds by 25%. These these theses were later confirmed by a study that developed the Galician Union, also here in Santiago, in two schools applying the tests at first, then doing an analysis after a course studying chess at a school and not at another school, and the conclusion was that the level of intellectual coefficient of those who studied chess was far higher than those who had not studied it. We're talking about the Yaque Project, which – as I say – developed into two schools in Santiago. On 11 March, the Councillor for Culture, Education and Universitary Order, present in this House in the debate, signed with Silvio Danailov, President of the ECU, the Union of European Chess, and with the mayor of Roundola an agreement that put on the stage the experience developed in schools of this municipality, to try to incorporate the study of chess into the curriculum. This memorandum, which is part of the Council's line of promoting innovation and combating school failure, is the framework for the methodological basis in which the Galicia ECU project will be organized. This initiative is not unique, it is added to some that are already in progress, such as that in the classes the association is lit Xaquedrum, in collaboration with the Council, which allows to study and develop the activity of chess with materials in the Greek language. We believe that it is the time, given the process in which we are implementing LOMCE, to develop the curriculum and methodological change that allows to deepen and boost the actions undertaken for the application of chess in schools, as a tool and a means of educational improvement. We understand that the reinforcement and presence of chess in the classroom will help to improve the student's key competences, including reading understanding and mathematical calculation, which, by the way, are not very well stopped in international reports. But as important as academic results are aspects related to the formation of the individual as a person. Today to talk about the assessment of consequences, correct decision-making, long-term planning and reformulation of plans before new situations, acceptance of established rules, tolerance to defeat, critical analysis of wrong decisions or learning from mistakes is talking about chess, but it's also about education. Chess facilitates the understanding of other subjects, therefore the transversal character of its implementation, and encourages the extraversion and self-esteem of the individual, and promotes the spirit of overcoming and independent mode of action. There is not a single master in the Welsh educational system who does not use educational games as motivational educational material, and chess, there is no doubt about it, at this point, is a genius element to do it. Ladies and gentlemen, these are the reasons why the People's Parliamentary Group presents this non-law proposal, in a constructive sense, and we look forward to the support of all groups. Nothing else and thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u352	Thank you, Mr. Fariñas. Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Iglesias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u353	Thank you, President. The idea of taking chess to classes and to the people is from 1917, in times of the Russian Revolution. The goal was to train critical and rigorous people as thinkers. The PP withdraws subjects like philosophy, music and those we call humanity and then comes up with proposals like this. Anyway, things you'll see! The benefits that bring the practice of chess are enormous: concentration, mental calculation, distribution of time, intuition, imagination, creativity; in addition to other values, such as justice, character, responsible and substantiated decisions, empathy, respect for the rival person, not enemy; even favors girls with problems of psychic disorder, TDH problems or psychological or social disorders. And it's an excellent preventive and therapeutic tool against alzeimer, although this exceeds the scope of this proposal. And in Ourense province we have the immense luck in this sense, because chess is implanted in more than twenty-five centers as extra-school matter, even in some of the school hours. It is no coincidence that two school chess tournaments held in Ourense, the Galicia School Cup and the International Expourense Festival, have passed the 300 participants between the ages of 3 and 16, turning them into those of greater participation, and even the state. The Chess Club in Ourense, for example, offers chess in fourteen centres with certified monitors, sector professionals and licensed psychologists, who are getting to almost fifteen centers in Ourense province today. In other places, of course, you're also working. In Lugo, the Luguesa School of Chess; in Ferrol, the Ferrol Circle; in Coruña, the Club Alexandre Bóveda; in Vilagarcia, the Club of Chess Fonte Carmoa. That's why he strongly draws attention that the Education Council suddenly considers it to be the epicenter of the Welsh chess board, where the Education Councillor signed a collaboration agreement with Mr. Silvio Danailov, director of the European Federation, and the Mayor of Roundalla, Javier Bas, in order to study ideas and methods to develop this project in Galicia. It is curious that a representative of the European Federation, who has made little more to come out in the photo and return to Bulgaria, and the mayor of a town without any chess tradition so far, serves as an example for the PP for the proposal. So I ask: who will be responsible for implementing chess in the Greek schools?, some of the opportunists who go out in the photos, which the press has already published last March, responsible for counting with Bulgarian lords to enlighten us and develop their own projects, or, on the contrary, with people actually linked to the sector in Galicia, chess schools and clubs, such as those mentioned above and evaluated for years of work by imparting chess in our country with love, dedication, knowledge, effectiveness and achieving results? I would call on the PP lords to define concretely the introduction and implementation of chess in the classrooms and not leave them in the hands of anyone. That is why the amendment was tabled. According to the proposal, a serious programming is essential, a structure defined within the teaching hours and a high number of teachers and teachers with a broad knowledge of chess, but any 10-year-old boy from one of many chess clubs in Galicia will overcome his teacher in knowledge; if these hives as mushrooms in the moist field and without preparation. Teachers must overcome a serious training course on chess, which allows them to impart this very difficult matter with confidence, and this is not done overnight. In addition, you should take advantage of the experience of people who have been teaching out-of-school chess classes for decades, of monitors and monitors titled and contrasts in Galicia, of people who have been living the chess from within and trying to involve them in shaping the project. I don't let this millennial discipline be imparted in any way and by anyone unprepared to get a nice headline. I will not support this initiative unless they approve the amendments tabled by the Joint Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u354	Thank you, Mrs Iglesias. Parliamentary Group of the Galician Nationalist Block, Mr. Pombo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u355	Good night, everyone. Good night, Counselor. The importance of chess actually comes from old age; I don't know whether from India, Egypt or China, I don't know about 1,500 or 4,000 years ago, but from old age. On the Iberian peninsula, of course, it's been about a thousand years or more, and in Europe more than five hundred. In the five minutes I have, I'm not going to have enough of this, if I focus on the subject. In 1995, UNESCO recommended the introduction of chess into school curricula. Seventeen years later, in 2012, the European Parliament actually adopted the Declaration on the introduction of the chess programme at school, into the educational systems of the European Union, considering that the Union has competences – let us say – in sport, and considering chess as an accessible sport, an important sport and which helps to develop the creative sense, intuition, memory, both analytical and decision-making skills of the student. And, therefore, when considering that chess also teaches values such as determination, motivation and sportsmanship, ask the member states at that time to support the introduction of the chess program at school in their educational systems. But Parliament also calls on the Commission itself in its own communication on sport to give the necessary attention to the chess programme at school and to ensure sufficient funding for this programme from 2012. Three years after this speech by the European Parliament, there is also a unanimous approval at the Congress of Members of Parliament of an initiative, effectively introduced by the Socialist Party, for the implementation of the practice of chess in schools and in public spaces, based on the many studies that defend the pedagogical goodness that the practice of chess produces in minors: increasing the capacity of strategy, mathematical, memoristic, concentration and decision-making, also based on the low economic cost of introducing chess in school and the experiences in several autonomous communities, of course, of course, Galicia. I'm not going to abound in the data that came from the introduction to Galicia, to Fene, to Lugo, to Ourense, to all of Galicia, and also to Round it up, this chess activity, well on the subject of extra-school activities, as well as an optional subject. And the scholars and teachers who work on the subject conclude that chess increases a performance in mathematics, in reading understanding and in space vision, which encourages and helps to create more critical, more reflective, more orderly students, who even value silence – the same as musicians – that enhances memory, concentration, attention capacity, problem resolution and better reasoning. Finally, chess, a cheap, democratic pedagogical tool, because it promotes social cohesion and equal opportunities; it only requires our intellect, one opposite and one board and pieces to play. It's not discriminatory, because black and white have the same abilities and opportunities. Ladies and gentlemen, if chess facilitates logical thinking, it helps to develop as many qualities as memory, mathematics, mental capacity, space capacity, calculation, the BNG Parliamentary Group, of course, is in favour of deepening in this presence of chess in school, and not waiting another twenty years for that to happen. We're not going to ask, Mr. Farinas, what that man asked of a grain of wheat in the first house, two in the second, four... and in the end we're not going to ask two thousand years of Galician harvest to pay -- let's say -- all the chess, we're going to a very practical thing. Since initiatives have been initiated in Roundla, in many places with extra-school activity, as we do not much like propaganda, we propose a change of character – I say – practical for the whole of the student, who does not discriminate against the rural of the urban and who can all students benefit from the subject. And, therefore, we welcome an amendment, adding that, in any case, the Education Council will offer in all the primary and secondary Greek public centres free of charge extra-school activities, using European funding. Here we have very important Greek chess schools. We don't doubt this amendment being accepted to actually introduce chess into school. A small practical step that we can introduce without waiting – as I said before – another 20 years, to know if it goes in the curriculum, if it doesn't go in the curriculum, if it's transversal character, whether it's specific character or what it is.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u356	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u357	I hope they accept our amendment. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u358	Thank you, Mr. Pombo. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Docasar.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u359	Good night. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Farinas, Mr. Counselor, welcome. The People's Group today brings the debate to an issue that wants to sell us as a very novice, but actually – allow me, Mr. Fariñas – it's not so much. I want to tell you – and you already said it a moment ago – that the Socialist Parliamentary Group led to the debate in the Congress of Members a similar proposal, just last February 11. An initiative, of course, which was adopted unanimously there and therefore by pure coherence we today have every desire to do something similar in the Greek Parliament. But allow me, Mr. Farínas, to take this opportunity to make some points that I think are relevant and also to ask for some clarifications that I consider also relevant. What led the Socialists at the Congress of Deputies to present this non-law proposal in support of chess at school, Mr Fariñas? I'll try to explain it very briefly as soon as I'm available today. Chess since its appearance several centuries ago has been regarded as a game, as philosophy, as art and even as science. Probably all those denominations are true together, because a discipline so fascinating and rich in nuances and possibilities in one of them would be to close the passage to others who also define their essence. The ease that is supposed to be able to have a board and the corresponding pieces gives access to all kinds of people regardless of their economic power. We are therefore faced with an activity that can be practiced anywhere, with very small economic costs and which can be practiced from very early ages. We also know that different studies have believed that early-age chess can improve the ability to concentrate minors, develop their creativity, stimulate patience, persistence, memory, decision-making, and even mathematical and linguistic skills. That was precisely one of the reasons why the European Parliament, in March 2012, issued a statement expressly calling on the Member States of the European Union to support the introduction of chess at school. We know that there are already several countries that have developed educational chess programs for some time now. In Spain we currently have 1,200 educational centers that teach chess as a subject or have it as an extra-school activity. Our country has always had illustrious xadrecists, and we could underline names such as Lope de Segura, Francisco Vallejo, Miguel Illescas, Arturo Pomar, Monica Calceta or Ivan Salgado. However, the promotion of this sport by different public administrations never had the real dimension that their potential required. Today, we have already had interesting and very successful experiences in Galicia, and I will cite as good examples the good work being done in the cities of Lugo or Ferrol, for placing just a few examples of good practices in the dissemination of chess. Here is a document, which is also interesting – then I leave it there to the counselor –; we already have documents, we don't have to invent the powder on this subject. There are also examples of good practices in public and private schools in Galicia, but what is missing is more global coordination, which I understand is what is being sought at this time. There was also on his day, in March 1995, – Mr. Farinas also agreed – an agreement by the Senate itself urging the Government to turn chess into an optional subject. I mean, many attempts and good intentions up until now, but without achieving a global implementation of this project in our schools. Mr. Farinas, there is also one subject that I do not want to stop commenting on today taking advantage of the debate on this proposal that is not about law. Those we know well about the dynamics of the functioning of educational centers know that when a new subject appears, it's always at the expense of someone else's schedule. That will be one of the subjects to be addressed by educational communities, to put chess time in schools, you'll have to think about what's taken away from them. And finally a matter that has to do with our amendment to add, Mr. Farínas, and which I hope will be taken into account by the People's Group. For the Socialist Group it is important that in addressing this project we have the involvement and express collaboration of the German, Spanish and European chess federations. We want to think that we're not facing a project so that some stilts that lead to a particular foundation do business. For having so far – as I said a moment ago – since 2009 documents at the Education Council itself, in Greek, which also belong to the Linguistic Policy. That is why, and with the comments and clarifications I have just made to you, the Socialist Group, Mr Farínas, would be willing to support this People's Group initiative. I hope that you will accept our amendment to add, because I understand that it would be useful to clarify things and prevent some stilts – I insist on this course – from trying to do business with chess in schools. Here too, I have a document – which I will also hand over to Mr. Fariñas – of the Chess Federation, let's say they already have a whole development of how to do it. In the next few days in Pontevedra there's a teacher training course in the Cefore of Pontevedra, so we're not in diapers. What I do hope is that it won't be taken advantage of for someone to do business. I hope today, Mr. Farinas, you clarify it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u360	Thank you, Mr. Docasar. Parliamentary Group of the Alternative Left Gallega, Mr Vázquez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u361	Well, good night. I'll try to be brief and not turn into the arguments already reflected. In fact, we are faced again with a classic problem that the People's Party presents to us. At the same time, while measures which structurally disbalance the Greek educational system are involved, they then present inconsistent measures, declarations of intentions that will not alleviate the outcomes previously carried out in themselves. In this way, gross budget cuts are made in education, EUR 400 million in five years; insufferable staff cuts, more than 1,250 teachers less; closing classes and centres, 450 less classes, 76 schools deleted; and a long et cetera. And then there's a measure like this to implement chess in schools, which, in principle, is a measure that can be assumed, like many others. Because the truth is that nowadays nothing prevents no centre from working the chess cross-sectionally, incorporating it as complementary discipline in its classroom, which is carried out as an extra-school activity; that it is ultimately given to it the approach that is intended to be given to it. Nothing prevents the incorporation of chess as an educational innovation project, as nothing prevents the incorporation of learning in contact with the environment, work by projects, the creation of school gardens... finally, a lot of methodological and pedagogical performances of content that are favorable to the student, not just chess. Therefore, we believe that a measure is being presented by betting on educational innovation, but really, how will it be done? That's the big question. How are you gonna do this? Because the Government in 2011 approved precisely a change in the lecture schedule of the teacher who increased the educational time at the expense of the complementary hours that the teacher has, precisely, to work with projects, to develop transversal content, to establish connections between the different teachers and subjects, and which also allowed him to do his homework, reinforcements, support and, ultimately, to plan the activities of the centre. So how will the teacher be trained to perform this activity, if it's the teacher who's going to do it? How are innovation programs like this or any of them going to be allowed to work? How will it be allowed to take different learning styles, different methodologies, innovative projects through different methodologies? How can you do all this when you have a class of 25 children, 5 of them from different nationalities, 6 with learning difficulties, 3 with special educational needs, the rest with different interests and motivations? This is the description of an ordinary class of any day. How do you do that? How do creative methodologies and methodological variations be undertaken? We – I insist – do not object to the work of chess in school, there is no possible objection in this regard. We agree that there are studies that show and prove that it is beneficial, like many other contents, like many other methodologies. But we ask ourselves, how do you intend to do this? Mr. Farinas, he didn't clarify it, he gave a story about a legend. But here we have to be strict as to the application of the rules or measures we have to adopt. Are you going to work in collaboration with the federations, with the chess clubs? Are you going to implant as a subject?, just as an out-of-school matter? Are you going to work in collaboration with the professor at the center? Are you going to hire monitors? Are you going to work with private companies? Because that possibility is also overlooking this initiative. They don't clarify any such issues, I hope Mr. Farinas will do so in his final turn. And finally, Mr. Farinas made a mistake from my point of view from an unusual point of view: linking the practice of chess with the approval of LOMCE, as if LOMCE had enabled this kind of activity. And nothing further than reality, because the practice of chess is linked to creativity, reasoning, flexible thinking. A whole series of questions, a whole series of very rounded capabilities of LOMCE. LOMCE is based on the establishment of learning standards, on the establishment of revalids, which the only thing they want is to address a type student, to establish a mold, easily measurable, easily comparable, and in which everyone who remains outside, of course, is rejected from this kind of assembly chain...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u362	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u363	...to which education and education is reduced. So we would ask for coherence, clarifications and we would think of our vote. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u364	Thank you, Mr. Vázquez. Author group of the non-law proposition, Mr. Farínas. Give a voice to Mr. Farinhas's chair, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u365	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Vázquez, precisely chess is intended to take advantage of the possibilities that chess provides as a game, as a science, as an art, within primary and secondary curricula, so that our students can take advantage of the pedagogical advantages that chess has as a cross-sectional subject of curriculum use in subjects that in the free setting to which schools are entitled in their freedom and autonomy draw them to the taste and needs of each of the schools where it is located, be it rural, be it urban, semi-urban or semi-rural. And that's one of the capabilities that will allow the educational reform that we're having today as an example to end up with bad results on each of the headings that gave each of the spokespersons here and now, and that were checked year after year in all the laws that the People's Party never approved and that have approved others. [[Applause]] I don't know if you're responsible for that or not, but the results are what they are. And on the other hand, I have to refer to whether or not the amendments are acceptable. But first allow me, Mrs Iglesias, to say yes, chess has a long tradition but not in the whole world alone, here too, and implantation in schools too, but even in the classrooms. Sure, sure, bald. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] What you have to do now is regulate it, precisely so that it doesn't happen what you told us here: in the hands of anyone. [[Murmurs.]] He said it, but it's just that it's not in anyone's hands, ma'am, it's in the hands of qualified and accredited professionals, who are the great teachers who have the Greek education system. Things can't happen... yeah, yeah, they laugh. [[Murmurs.]] I've just said about the "great teachers who have the Welsh education system" and you've released a laugh. [[Laughter]] Which is in the sitting book, Mr President, that they all laughed and keep laughing at what I just said right now. In any case, it's a curious intervention squeezing the epic at the end to say that either it gives me the reason, that I have it all in my amendment, or there's no approval. [[Laughter]] For there is no amendment, Mrs Iglesias, precisely because it violates absolutely everything that we propose in our proposal not of law. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] As for the amendment, I thank you anyway, like the BNG, which I also thank the amendment, but absolutely leaves it in hand and out of the education system by proposing the opposite of what we propose. We, within school in school hours, and you propose it out and out of school hours. I accept, Mr Docasar, your amendment, I am willing to accept it, with a small transaction, that until the day of the vote, which is tomorrow, we will have time, which I think we will reach an agreement because it is minimal, to further extend your proposal today. Nothing else and thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-28-DSPG106.u366	Thank you, Mr. Fariñas. We'll hold the full till tomorrow at ten in the morning.
