ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u1	The session is open. The agenda is published in the Official Gazette of the Parliament of Galicia, so it is not read. There was no justification for non-appropriateness and we were on the agenda. Provision of promise or oath of acceptance and fidelity to the Constitution and to the Statute of autonomy of Galicia by a new Member
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u2	If it seems to you, we are going to make a preliminary point on a new Member who joins this parliamentary session. Therefore, in accordance with Article 7 of the Rules of Procedure, it is appropriate to request the promise or oath to comply with and maintain fidelity to the Constitution and to the Statute of autonomy of the new Member, Mr Jesús Antonio Goldar Güimil. According to the procedure, the formula is to answer "Yes, I swear" or "Yes, I promise" to the question of this presidency. And I beg you to answer from the bench to the question I'm going to ask you: Don Jesús Antonio Goldar Güimil, do you swear or promise to abide by the Constitution and the Statute of Galicia?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u3	Yes, I swear.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u4	Well, I gave the oath, reached the full condition of Parliament of Galicia and we welcome you. Thank you very much. We then entered the development of the agenda. Proposal for a modification of the agenda
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u5	Mr. Jorquera, what do you want the word for? [[Pause.]] Give a voice to Mr. Jorquera's chair.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u6	In Article 73.1, which states that "The agenda of the plenary may be amended by agreement of the President or at the request of two parliamentary groups or a fifth of the members of the House". I would like to request the inclusion on the agenda, first of all, of the request for a commission of inquiry into the causes of the English accident, taking into account the new data made public, of registration number 17487. And in order to maintain the practice that existed in this House that parliamentary groups could include on the agenda two non-legislative proposals, we also request the inclusion of the Non-Legal Proposition 33160, on the demands that the Greek Government must make to the Central Government in relation to the tax exemptions of the Catholic Church.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u7	Thank you very much, Mr. Jorquera. I suppose Mrs. Díaz... has the floor, because it's two parliamentary groups, right?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u8	Good morning, Madam President. Indeed, from the Alternative Left Galician we want to adhere to the two formulations that Mr. Jorquera has put forward as regards both the incorporation of the GNP to which the Galician Nationalist Block is entitled and also to substance the debate in this House on the research commission of Yellows.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u9	Well, if you think so, then since the request under Rule 73.1 is made by two parliamentary groups in the House, we vote on this amendment to the agenda. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] No, it's a general change in the agenda for inclusion of two points. Therefore, this change is poured out together. We vote. Voting of the proposal to amend the agenda by the parliamentary groups of the Nationalist Bloc of Galicia and the Alternative Left Galeg. The voting resulted in the following: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. This amendment to the agenda is therefore rejected for inclusion of the themes formulated by the parliamentary groups of the Galician Nationalist Block and the Alternative Left Galeg.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u10	We continue with the development of the established agenda, with point 1 of legislative texts. Comprehensive discussion of the Galician Public Employment Bill
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u11	Mr. Valeriano Martínez García has the floor for the bill's presentation.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u12	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, good morning. Today in this House, Galicia's Public Employment Bill is being introduced to its parliamentary process. This is a law that aims to modernize the Administration to provide better public service to citizens and that covers a wide range of outstanding innovations and advantages. The law involves and benefits over 120,000 Greek public employees: health, public education, social services, the General Administration, the Administration of Justice, local administrations, universities. Women and men who daily contribute to Galicia's functioning. These men and women are a heritage of Galicia and are part of the best of us. This law is primarily an essential function, such as the development of the basic state legislation, the basic Statute of the Public Employee, of the year 2007, adapting to it all the regulations governing the civil service of Galicia. Galicia will be the third community in Spain that completes this adaptation. This law is preceded by an intense process of dialogue with various civil society agents, in which consensus was pursued and the text was enriched with the different approaches of different groups, incorporating more than one hundred and fifty allegations. In this process of dialogue, among others, the Galaga Federation of Municipalities and Provinces, the University of Santiago, the University of Vigo, the Advisory Council, the People's Valedor, the Economic and Social Council, the Board of Auditors or the Galaga Culture Council, professional schools, professional and collective associations of disabled people, and so on to thirty more collectives. And on the other hand, the text was also the subject of an intense negotiation process with trade union organizations, with which more than thirty meetings were held, although it could not be crystallized in a global agreement as our desire would be. However, the law incorporates eighty-five concrete proposals made by the unions. In the near future we will deepen in this process of dialogue for both the development of law and its direct application. The law we bring to this House is a law for citizens, throughout Galicia, to improve the quality of public services and also socially responsible. As I said, this is a law for citizens, because citizens demand an administration that does not disagree with the quality of service, but that size and value constantly. Public services run by professionals who know what they do because they have the greatest expertise, experience and vocation. An administration that is able to entrust responsibilities to the most qualified professional for its technical training, competence and knowledge. Motivated professionals, with initiative and constantly updating their knowledge and skills. A transparent administration, which says what it does, who does it, and how much it costs him what it does. Finally, citizens demand public services capable of competing in quality, because they are installed in the same culture of effort in which society itself is. In a world where the window is already being replaced by the computer screen or the mobile device, in which the Administration is no longer a dedicated office, but also a downloaded office, citizens and companies demand that we solve their problems by turning to the home or to the establishment twenty-four hours a day, the 300 sixty-five days a year. So it's a standard oriented to the generalized implementation of electronic administration. The project foresees that public administrations will generalize their management by electronic means, and relate to their staff primarily through these media. It's one of the law's reporting principles, which aims to make it easier for all citizens to manage as easily as possible, promoting that most administrative procedures can be done from home, without the need to provide documents that are already in the hands of the Administration. It is ultimately that citizens and businesses do not see their productivity and well-being penalized with administrative burdens. Secondly, as I pointed out, it is a law for all of Galicia, since it will establish a common framework for public employment for all public administrations and entities to which the legislative powers of the Autonomous Community extend. Galicia will thus provide a stable, unique and flexible framework for public workers, always respecting the levels of autonomy of different organs and administrations. This will promote coordination between administrations and the mobility of professionals. Thirdly, and above all, it's a law for improving the quality of public services. The law introduces into the autonomous regulations several new developments that will undoubtedly improve the quality of the services provided by the Administration, and will serve to strengthen the working conditions of public employees, their guarantees and their protection. Citizens understand how natural it is that anyone who wants to do his work better has a recognition. For this reason, the Public Employment Act implements the professional career of staff members in order to allow their professional advancement, without the need to change jobs. The horizontal career will provide Greek officials with a motivating system of professional development, as it will allow their experience, training, merit and knowledge to be recognized and valued throughout their professional life. Citizens demand public services that compete in quality with any other, and offer the quality that is demanded is not possible without constantly evaluating how the work is done. So it's necessary to generalize in our public services the culture of evaluation. Intimately linked to the horizontal career system, this law regulates the evaluation of performance. Performance assessment is the procedure by which the performance and performance of public employees are measured and achieved. Evaluation systems shall be applied by specialized bodies with functional autonomy under criteria of transparency, objectivity, impartiality and non-discrimination. The Public Employment Act provides for the implementation of different evaluation lines: individualised evaluation of the performance of each professional, regular evaluation of each unit and unique evaluation of the head positions. Trade union organisations shall participate in the design and establishment of the different evaluation systems. The law introduces evaluation as a way of ensuring quality and therefore also provides for this highest quality in work to be remunerated. To that end, the law introduces a new pay system, which links part of the wages complementary to the progression of staff members within the professional career system. This remuneration system provides for a new salary concept, in particular career supplement, which will pay for the professional advancement achieved by staff. And speaking of payouts, I have to remember that over two years ago we asked the Greek public employees to make an effort to help get out of the crisis. At that point, we are committed to the recovery of the quantities withdrawn in future years. We're going to fulfill that commitment. The Law of the Public Employee establishes in its transitional provision the recovery of the level of staff remuneration for the service of the public sector of the Autonomous Community of Galicia. And for that, a specific fund will be created which will collect for a maximum period of three years the appropriations needed to complete the recovery of adjusted remuneration in 2012. In line with the current Budget Act, the fund will allow this same year, with a budget of EUR 51 million, to exhaust up to 25% of the return established in state legislation, and at the same time will allow different labour groups to experience a wage recovery in a similar environment. This fund shall also finance on a consolidated basis the replenishment of the two additional payments of the specific supplement or equivalent remuneration. So we return to the public employees the effort they made, but we will make an exception to the addition of the high office. This payroll is over two years ago, we're not going to pay it back, and this law is going to delete it. The plus of high office because it disappears from our legal order and, in this way, Galicia will be the first community to suppress this supplement by law. But this is also a law that will allow you to select the most suitable professionals. Citizens do not understand that technical jobs are provided in a completely discreet manner, but do not admit that they are entrusted with criteria of mere antiquity or scalafone. I would like to announce that according to what is provided for in the bill that is being presented today, more than 500 heads of service will cease to be provided by the free designation system to be selected by means of the specific invitation to tender. Squares provided in this way will be subject to a specific valuation every five years, without prejudice to the general performance assessment system applicable to all public employees. I would also like to refer to the other measure that workers and trade union organizations demand, which this law will make possible: in particular, the processes of functionalization of workers have made them perform functions or perform positions of official staff. This measure will provide a single legal regime for certain groups of service employees such as employment offices or social services, increasing their versatility. It is also noteworthy that the percentage of places open to staff other administrations in staff mobility processes increases from 5% to 7%. This will allow the return of a larger number of Greek public employees who provide services in other Spanish administrations. As we said earlier, we want public services led by professionals that each day contains the greatest specialization, experience, evocation. What this law seeks through the establishment of the essential legal regime of professional staff is that these professional executives are normally selected among career officials and staff employed in the service of public administrations; so their selection will be based on the principles of merit, capacity and suitability. It will be evaluated in accordance with the criteria of efficiency and efficiency and will be subject to responsibility for its management and control of results. And as a fourth fundamental feature of this law, this law is socially responsible. The Galician Public Employment Act provides for the development of equality plans by different administrations and regulates a detailed set of rights for employees who are victims of gender violence. In addition, we are confident that these measures will be complemented by the adoption of amendments which have just been tabled by the People's Parliamentary Group for the adoption of important measures, among which it is worth noting that, for the first time in Spain, the permit for birth is increased to 18 weeks, with progressive application, and that the rooms of rest and lactation are regulated. This new law also reserves specific places in offers of employment in the Greek administrations for people with intellectual disabilities. This reservation is set to 2% of the offer. Last week we just approved a job offer that, for the first time, calls for squares for this collective. In short, and to conclude, we are faced with a bill that aims to adapt public employment legislation to the 21st century, so that Galicia can have more efficient and better coordinated public administrations among them. This law is before this House with the aim of providing the best service to citizens, to all Welsh and Greek people services in the age of education, health, social services, but above all, generally, an administration from which citizens are increasingly satisfied. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, asking for the multiple reasons set out in this speech for your support for this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u13	Thank you very much. It is in defence of amendments to the entire position on the bill. You have the floor for the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego gives land peace Franco.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u14	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Conseiler of Fairy, welcome to this new facet of yours, in this new task as advisor of Fairy. But I have to tell you that, of course, I am absolutely amazed at the intervention you just made. Look, I have been a Member of this Parliament since July 18 – a curious date on which we take possession – of the year 2005 and I have seen many, many bills dealt with in this Parliament. And I can assure you, without any fear of being mistaken, that never before have so many collectives, entities, representatives of all kinds of movements or organizations in society, not only trade unions, but also professional and all kinds of collectives, called for meeting with parliamentary groups to transfer their inconsistencies with this bill, to transfer them the lack of negotiating will on the part of the Business Council, of their predecessor – I don't know if you take up your work in the management of this bill, it seems so – but never before will we receive so many complaints from parliamentary groups in connection with the process of a bill. And above, Counselor, in a law that with a dubious interpretation by the Galician Council is not subject to the rule of the Economic and Social Council, we have to hear how you come here to tell us that the law has been negotiated, it has not been referred to the report, but it has been negotiated with the Economic and Social Council. Frankly, I'm hallucinating with your intervention. But I'm more hallucinated at the end of your intervention. The evidence that this law does not entail any progress, as we shall later explain, on central issues that affect public service and public employment, but on public services in our country, which does not have any kind of social support and which, therefore, the Government is absolutely and inevitably needed to make more propaganda with this law, as you did on your day when it was the approval by the Council of the United Nations with the addition of the high office and with the alleged return of pay rights to public employees, is that the Government must now come here to advertise an amendment tabled by the People's Party. In fact, we could see how the People's Group tabled an amendment to increase maternity or paternity leave to eighteen weeks, but curiously, ladies and gentlemen, long you trust me because to increase that license for two weeks, let's say that they dilate it, like the pay rights of public employees, until 2017. Therefore, Counselor, propaganda and more propaganda. On the contrary, what we appreciate in relation to this bill is, firstly, that it violates a basic foundation of any democratic system and also of our own; even I would dare say that you once again violate a fundamental right of workers, today that it is also Galaga Workers' Day, of the working class. Especially serious is that the process of a law that violates the right to collective bargaining of public employees is brought to this Parliament. Not only in the negotiation of the law itself, because you can tell us that you had thirty – I believe you said – meetings with trade union organizations, but since the first meeting you told them what the red lines of negotiation were, which, by the way, were practically everything, above all matters that were of some relevance; but you are also consolidating yourself through this law, Mr. Dozenda's advisor, other fragrances violations of collective bargaining, as is all that has to do with the Law 1/2012, which was still known yesterday as a ruling by the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia, in which you are making abusive use of the law to violate workers' rights, in this case related to article 19 of the collective single labour agreement – that is what the judgement says, Counsellor – but also in the very content of this bill when you are making an abusive use of the subject matter that objective, and, of course, in any democratic place in the world, you would be deprived of the ability to negotiate to negotiate, but also negotiate with the object. We could talk about everything that has to do with regulation, economic recovery and staff rights, the regulation of management staff or the career model, or precisely the new pay system that will be implemented. Therefore, violation of the right to collective bargaining. And I have to tell you that this is what you do, Counselor, is return to Galician Union in zero reliability. You don't care what you sign; you sign what you sign has no reliability because you get it systematically. Here comes everything like Pemex's contracts, it looks like they exist, they don't, they sign, they don't, their practical virtuality is null. You also said in your intervention that this law came to be a law for improving the quality of public services and that, in some ways, it constituted a blockage of public services. Nothing further from reality. Look, this law does not guarantee the public nature of the provision of services, nor does it guarantee the quality of public services that is being processed in this Parliament, and much less, ladies and gentlemen, it guarantees the quality of the provision of public services; on the contrary, what is further deepening in the quality of public services. Because someone can explain to me, Counsellor, how it is possible that with the permanent cuts that are introduced into public administration staff, mainly in those sensitive sectors, such as public services, health and education, you can come here and say that there will be more quality of public services. This law consolidates cuts in public administration, consolidates miserable replacement rates that make it absolutely impossible to maintain an adequate level of provision of public services. Then we will discuss in this plenary a popular legislative initiative of the IGC to restore not only the rights to teaching staff, but also the quality of public education. Because, Counsellor, we are before an administration, the Educational Administration, in which, in recent years, since you rule in Galicia, approximately 3,000 teaching posts have been abolished in our education system and retired around 4,000 people during that same period. And you know how many oppositions, how many squares did the People's Party call? Sixty. And that's what you call the quality of public education. And not even through this law shield education by establishing a 100 percent troop replacement rate, which progressively allows the rights not only of teachers but, above all, of students and their families. The same could be said of health or social services, that the content of this law, even in the case of health, despite the fact that it formally appears that the replenishment rate will be 50%, which from then on the trial of the Nationalist Block Galego is absolutely insufficient, since then the counselor has shaded that it would be a percentage depending on the needs that Sergas determines, with a maximum of 50%, that is, we could be even at levels of replacement of troops in public health well below 50%. So I ask – and it will surely be a rhetorical question – how do you think – as you solemnly stated here – to guarantee the quality of public services? The cuts in salary rights to public employees are also strengthened through this bill. What you came to tell us here, Counselor, and what you said on the day this bill was passed on at the board of directors in relation to the recovery of the purchasing power of public employees is smoke and is radically lies. Look, Counsellor, there are hundreds of judgments from different judicial bodies that have been saying for a long time, that they have to pay, not pay, the extra payments of the year 2012 to public employees. You have repeatedly been insubmitted to the courts. You, who have so much respect for justice, when there are judgments which do not suit you, simply declare yourselves insubmission to your compliance. And now they want a rinse through this bill to make the public employees believe, but above all I suppose the rest of the citizenship, because the foolish public employees shouldn't be and I suppose they'll end up seeing their payrolls, that they'll return some rights to them. And all they're going to do -- you've met him here -- is pay them 25% of what they owe them from the year 2012. But, Counsellor, it turns out that public employees in recent years have been taken away by about 20 percent of their salaries, and that in the case of extra payments, they are not only due to 2012 but also due to court rulings, but also to 2013, 2014 and 2015. See, in your own economic memory, what you call "short financial economic memory", which accompanies this bill says the following – "abbreviated" call it, I don't know why –: "The cost of returning the part of the 2012 extra payment claimed prior to the entry into force of the Royal Decree 20/2012 exceeds 17.5 million euros stipulated in the 2015 Autonomous Community Budget Act". Only the previous one for the entry into force. How do you think you're dealing with this situation? But then he says that it is established that the 170 million euros needed to set the fund for the additional or equivalent payment recovery will be divided into two parts: the years 2016 and 2017, with which it is a lie that they are now going to pay the extra parts. Because he then says – and he is literally in that short memory – "depending on budget availability". And besides, it makes these accounts unconsolidable, so they won't end up building up in the salary mass of public employees. But it goes on to say: "The recovery of the two specific complement payments or equivalent payments abolished during 2013, whose cost is higher than 150 million euros, which is different from 2018, nudging" – which says the memory – "that the set of planned impact fits into the current multiannual budget framework according to the statement in the financial envelope accompanying the 2015 credit report." Do you know what this means in Paladin Roman? There are many economists here who are sure to translate it better than me, and that this in 2016, 2017 and 2018 is going to be done if there's money, depending on what the budget balance is, for which you changed the Constitution. I mean, if after paying the interest to the banks we have some money left, we might as well return their rights to public employees. Look, this is about the financial envelope. You guys are trying to do with this bill is a propaganda envelope, but I don't think it's gonna work out for you. There is another central element for us, which is that by this law the extermination of the Greek language is consolidated in the Public Service and the elimination of the linguistic rights of the Greek people. You suppressed in 2009 the obligation of Galician public employees to know the language of our country. If public employees don't have to know our language, citizens, public administration users are impossible to see us satisfied with our right to be treated in our own language. Look, the Galego Nationalist Block does not say so, he gave the report of the Committee of Experts to monitor the fulfilment of the European Charter of Regional and Minority Languages, which in its fourth report makes a recommendation to him, which is also accepted by the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe, that, on the subject of access to public service, Galicia – specifically referred to the situation in Galicia – should ensure the presence of regional or minority languages in public services, and that the content of its law on access to public service is not guaranteed. Therefore, Counsellor, I ask you to reconsider your position and again include in the form of access to Galician civil service the obligation to know the Greek language, because it is the only way to guarantee the linguistic rights of the Greek people. Besides, of course, other instruments to extend their use. Finally, I have to tell you one thing: this public employment law is not a law of the future, it's a law of the past. The model of public function that consolidates here is an arbitrary public function...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u15	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u16	...a civil service law that does not create a body of officials to the service – worth redundancy – of public services and citizenship, but of the service of power. You don't want free officials to act freely under the sole rule of law and the objectivity of service to citizens, but you want officials to make an administration and interpret legislation...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u17	End, please, Mrs. Peace.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u18	...depending on the interests of the People's Party. Look, both the professional career and the creation of these executive positions, and the management system that you set up...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u19	Thank you, Mrs. Peace, this is what you're talking about.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u20	...just foster nepotism. The only thing they need to go back to a 19th-century administration is to establish the cesareanties.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u21	Thank you, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u22	Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u23	Thank you, thank you very much. Parliamentary Group of the Alternative Left Galego, Mrs Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u24	Good morning to all and to all. Good morning, Counselor. You're lucky that the president of the Galician Union remained in the Chamber as you spoke. It seems that I didn't even know the proposal made by the Executive and it also seems that he has little interest in what he's going to say in the amendments to return the opposition, and that's why he's not here. I want to divide the intervention into two parts: a first, very relevant part, which is the formal part, and a second, also relevant part, which is the bottom part or the substantial part, what happens is that the shapes determine the background. And the first thing I want to point out is the whole series of considerations which is issued in a long report by the General Council, in which there is no doubt about the non-compliances that the Galician Council is making in the process of this text. Some breaches because they're more than novices. That is to say, it does not open the ESC's report in this debate is unheard of, but it opens a report justifying because there is no ESC report because it is still, if possible, more surreal. And even if we are told in writing in that report that we do not need the text of the ESC, because it has no economic impact, nor does it mean any change in the economic reality of this country to talk about employees and public employees, because we have a problem. And I propose to you that they liquidate the ESC, because it is obvious that in your proposals you do have no interest in it at all. Secondly, I would like to highlight what the Legal Counsel points out, which clearly states that very important reports are missing in the processing process. Besides, tell us that advice report that you don't know which version of what text we're talking about, because this treatment was certainly at least surreal; that is, there were three versions, we don't know the reports they work on, some of them that the versions have been accommodated. And I literally quote him as the General Counsel tells us that, in fact, there is "a need for a new report in view of the new incorporations that have been made in the text." You said, for example, here that I write a report from the Fegamp, that I am simply repeating to you reading the report from the Legal Counsel. There is a 2013 Fegamp report that has nothing to do with the reality of today's text. And, as the Legal Counsel says, in fact, there is no need for substantial changes in the Spanish local public administration, which must, without doubt, be included in that necessary report that in all the light – you know – is to be complied with. But for example, there is no report of the Galician Civil Service Council either. I suppose there is no report of the Galician Council of the Civil Service because one of the first mandates to incorporate this new text is to load the Galician Council of the Civil Service. Of course, the Galician Council of the Public Service has been charged, effectively suppressed in the Chamber, because it seems to you that it has no relevance, especially because they do not believe in negotiation or in the role that public administrations play with that part of the representation of workers. And even the proposal says, it's the justification they make, that they make this body disappear normally replacing it with the General Negotiation Bureau and the negotiating tables. Well, we don't share this, and I suppose that's why you don't listen to the General Counsel and disregard the preceptive report of the Galician Council of the Civil Service. But they violate a fundamental mandate, which is Article 37 of EBEP. And indeed, if there is something lacking in this text it is negotiating, as the courts are telling you repeatedly in the judgments. That you don't know what the People's Party of Compliance is thank you for according to the rule we have on the table. There was no negotiation with the representatives of the workers, Mr. Counsellor, not the one, it is false. And it's more: they've completed the file. They complied with the file because they had the mandate and suddenly reborn the text before the parliamentary debate in this House in December, particularly you wanted to approve it – we don't know very well why – at the Board of Directors prior to the budgetary approval of December 17, and actually called the representatives of the workers and workers, complied with the formality and nothing else. The Legal Counsel says that it has not complied with that principle, Article 37, which is to negotiate and take seriously the proposals that require the rule. But it is also, without any doubt, that they incorporate some elements with some gravity, because I insist that we be told by the General Counsel that there are three versions of the text, that we have no reports. So even in the formal, you don't comply with the lawfulness of law. And I am leaving for this first part what is achieved by the preliminary economic and financial report, which is indeed short-lived in this case. Exactly as short as four sheets, which has nothing to do with the mandate that incorporates Lofaxga in relation to the report of the economic impact that will have the incorporation of this rule, and you know it better than me. The only thing the report tells us about these four sheets – and it also summarizes it later with a picture of the Business Council – is that they will incorporate in this year 17.5 million euros, then 170 million euros, and for the specific complement 150 million euros, all of this up to 2018, but everything about what you have to do with the debts you have to do with the workers and public workers and failed electoral mandates and promises. There is no economic impact report on what the application of this rule will suppose. And yesterday, when we read the media – or today, I don't know when it is – we saw that this rule is great, superfluous, because Mr. Feijó is going to be the guarantor of women's rights in the Public Administration, and it turns out that it will allow us to extend the period of dedication to our children and children after a delivery to eighteen weeks – I am writing letters, Counsellor – and I ask you quickly: how much will it cost to apply this measure?, how much will it cost those measures that you incorporate of change – for example, that governing body – of this rule? There is no economic report on the application of the rule, which, by the way, is also marking the Legal Counsel. What is also unheard of is that there are some sort of allegations in the proposal that they're rebutting what the General Advisory says, that you question. And they say on many occasions that they don't share what the General Counsel of our house and the house of the Greeks and the Greeks says. But with regard to these falsehoods or those propaganda measures that incorporate the law, I also wanted to point out – if it works in the cars of this standard – the report issued regarding the impact of gender. Let's look at this: you assume in the standard of employment and family reconciliation measures, you assume in this absolute modernity that is telework – which is already in other standards, that I'm not going to quote them because I don't have time – and you assume a lot of things, except for what the gender impact report says, which says very important things. For example, we are told by this report that we generally have 59,852 women, twice as many as men, particularly 27,248 men. And the most Libyan that says this gender impact report of the norm – what I do ask them, at least formally, is that they comply with non-sexist language, because it seems they only work men in the Greek Public Administration, at least they pay attention in the report to non-sexist language issues – speaks of – and I quote literally – "deep gender asymmetries in the Greek Public Administration." They are telling us – in all the text, if you read it carefully – that, despite the fact that we duplicate women in the positions of the Government of Galicia in all sectors, the Council of Galicia is really doing it wrong, because there are no glass ceilings, it is that women really don't get to any boss, nowhere to make decisions. So, of course, far from those propaganda measures that we don't know how they're going to be applied or with what resources, it would be good for them to fulfil their mandate by incorporating their own gender report. By the way, we also hope that it will incorporate the allegations made by the gender impact report in respect of the change it incorporates in Article 48 and also the recommendation it makes in respect of Article 145, in order to effectively guarantee parity in the qualifying courts. Not how you are doing in every and every rule that comes here the discussion – the last of them, the rationality of the Greek public sector – that they will seek and never seek anything because equality between women and men never comes. And with regard to these propaganda measures that the women of the Greek Public Administration are going to crush – if I may, as Geluco Guerreiro would say – because it turns out that everything is false. Because, look, in the 1st Commission we are discussing in depth precisely the shortcomings of the Galician Council in the area of employment and family reconciliation. And that song of telework is a Chinese tale, a real failure, Mr. Fanda's advisor; I don't know if he knows – if he doesn't know – but a real failure. And now entering what's at the bottom of the rule question. Well, it's a very long rule, 211 articles, very deep, which incorporates, without a doubt, an absolute change in the conception of modern public administration. I'm going to tell you that what is done in this norm is literally incorporating and privatizing the state; this is what a laborer of the most relevant of our state, Professor Antonio Baylos, defines as "absolute State deprivation" and "absolute public administration deprivation." You in the language of Labour Right and Administrative Right what you are incorporating into the Government of Wales is this that you love the neocons and the FAES of José María Aznar; it is absolutely incorporating the Telephonic model, i.e. of absolute exploitation and absolute inequality, to the Government of Galicia. By the way, I believe that today we must congratulate the workers and workers of the units of the Wellness Centres, because, indeed, in that judgment – which is the second sentence just handed down by the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia – because of course it is reflected in the employment policy of the Council of Galicia: to violate the prevailing legislation in a blatant and brutal way – as we have just stated here – with regard to the working days of the Centres of Dependency of Wellness. But, look, why a phone model? Because, of course, we do not share at all – and so does the General Counsel's report – the model of absolute arbitraryness that you incorporate. First of all, you're being told the General Counsel's report: tell us in that model of permanent evaluation and in that model of target surrender who's going to set the targets and who's going to monitor the staff. Because, if you do, there are definitions in the rule that you make that you have it -- if you allow me to express it. For example, to remove the plugins in case they do not meet the agreed targets says the rule that you make: "You will evaluate" – literally – "the degree of interest, initiative, effort and, in particular, the involvement in updating and improving your professional qualifications." What do you mean to us, Counselor?, what if I'm a brunette and how bad my boss will not be able to perceive the complement or I won't be able to ascend? By the way, the only professional career we're talking about is the leadership career linked to a private and self-designation staff; as the Legal Counsel tells you, by the way, in your report. Because there's no professional career for the staff serving in the Public Service. What they're doing is preparing the ground – I suppose they're afraid to lose the election – to welcome their workers into executive positions. I insist: telephone model, tell us how this is explained? I have already told you that, by the way, the Council's own report. But also, I fear! that you regulate in the Greek Public Administration in the 21st century the part-time work is that it is to have it, it is to have it! I'm not surprised they weren't able to agree or sit down and negotiate with union representatives on the part of the Greek administration. I'm not surprised, because if there's a model that incorporates this rule, it's that of absolute precariousness in the Greek Public Administration. By the way, there's another interesting reflection...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u25	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u26	... –and I will finish now, Mr President – in the report of the Legal Counsel, who is telling you that they are violating European legislation on the different criteria between temporary staff – interintensities and others – and the staff – let us say, between quotes – "fix". They at least comply with the rule, unless they want to be seen permanently discussing in the lawsuits their mismanagement of public personnel resources. And I end up with a very serious issue that has to do with just those regulations concerning the social security of the public administration. It seems to me strange that any worker or public worker is in worse condition – I say in worse conditions, I understand, because normally the standard makes it public administration to from there in private, let's say, achieve the same – the problem is that when the standard in public administration is that people who are in a temporary disability, when their position is public, the first three days we're going to pay them 50% of the basis of quote, then 75% and only after the twentieth day begin to perceive the 100 percent of the regulatory base, it's a real trigger. It is, of course, to consolidate poverty and the precariousness of the worst private world in working relations with the Government of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u27	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u28	And, of course, on the side of the Gaga de Left Alternative, we're not going to go there. I really end up with a question that is relevant – I believe – for debate, Mr President, if they have to answer us properly. Article 20, which must be the definitions of positions which exercise authority or authority. We believe that in the face of the debate in our country in the public emergency services, you should take into account this definition that in the administrative police and other types of authors in the exercise, the emergency bodies of this country must be contemplated. Stop doing business as well, turning into real merchandise of the worst...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u29	Thank you, Mrs. Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u30	...the firemen of our country. For these reasons we urge the return of this text.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u31	Thank you, Mrs. Díaz. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Sestayo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u32	Thank you, President. Good morning, Counselor. The truth is I bring this folder with the allegations made by different collectives to this law to demonstrate the reality of the virtual reality in which we have been used to in their speeches. All of this is allegations of collectives expressing their rejection, of course. And that in addition to the first line they complain about the same question – there is a coincidence – the imposition on the part of the Galician Union and the refusal to listen to the participation of these collectives. So here you are at your disposal, in case you hide some information that is fundamental to you. I'm also concerned about what you said in your speech, because it said that this text could be improved thanks to the amendments made by the People's Party. It is also true that once his intervention was completed, the President of the Union was leaving. Well, I suppose you will have the will to try to improve it with the initiatives, with the amendments – more than a hundred – tabled by this parliamentary group, for that we are working to collect the political will – you will see that with quite normal and sensible proposals – of citizenship, as well as of the rest of the opposition groups. And we won't be used to the "impongo" and totalitarianism that you are characterized by. And besides you in the account spoke of a procedural reality in the elaboration of this very strange law, Counselor. First, you were talking about union participation. Well, once there is unity on the part of all the representative unions of the Government of Greece in rejecting this law, and there is unity in the lifting of the negotiating table by the totalitarian will of the Council of Galicia to impose all the conditions that the Government of Greece exclusively wants without listening to the workers' rights. Well, that's what the unions say. So I don't know what you call negotiation; I suppose you – as you referred to now – once you sit with the unions because that understands them as negotiation. No, negotiation goes further, and we must also listen and try to consent, Counselor. Therefore, many of the amendments tabled by the unions – by the way, 70% also coincide absolutely with all the union forces – I suppose you will have no problem listening to the majority parliamentary group and there will be no instructions, as is usually passed by the Government, for the opposition groups to be involved. On the other hand, Counsellor, we are also greatly surprised that you have received numerous reports. Look, you don't count on preceptive reports even for a law, and even preceptive reports for a law of these characteristics, which invades the competences of other sectors, see, local administration. I understand that ideologically you maintain a line of coherence with that invasion of the principle of local autonomy that comes up with the Constitution and that it has already begun with the law of Montoro and that you have continued in the Greek Public Administration. But the truth is, you're imposing conditions on local administration staff here without listening to local administrations themselves. And indeed, the report you referred to – said that if you had listened to Fegamp – Mr. Counsellor, it was related to other drafts. This parliamentary group has successfully requested that we be transferred from the previous drafts on which the information was produced. Once this bill is completely removed from earlier drafts to those that had been reported in the Administration of the Galician Federation of Municipalities and Provinces, it seems logical, Mr. Counsellor – not only logical but legally binding – that the report of the Fegamp and the report of other municipalities, which have occurred both in the drafts as at present, must be produced in respect of the text in which the law comes. This, Counselor, sets it up by the current Italian legislation. So by now, this law should be returned in order to give due consideration to the timely legal proceedings. You know, Counselor, that he is also subject to the German Government, even if it costs them, to the rule of law and the rule of law. So you can't mock preceptive compliance procedures. But, in addition, they miss out on a magnificent occasion – and I hope that they will rectify it in the process of processing, in the procedure of amendments – to comply with the judgments, Counsellor. Since they're in an active and proactive fight on the part of the Public Administration against workers and workers, public employees, both for pay cuts, cuts in extra pay, cuts in work and day deals – as you have just said – are losing over and over again all the processes that are going to resolve these issues. We have denounced in this parliamentary group the waste – you who like to accuse the rest of this issue so much – that they place on the arks of the Council of Galicia the costs that are being generated in continuous losses, apart from the bad image – let me tell you – of the Government of Greece, that in the judicial proceedings before the High Court of Justice and before different courts of the litigation-administrative throughout the country, throughout Galicia, they are again and again losing sentences that condemn the Council of Galicia to regain the labor rights lost by the public employment workers, as well as to execute the judgments. You in that spiral continue to waste public resources, continue to assault employees and public employees, and, in addition, say a Public Employment Act from which today the project we are debating comes in, and do not collect one of those mandates that are condemning the courts. So, Counsellor, allow me to say that, in fact, we are before an authoritarian text, before a totalitarian text, and before a text that, in addition to violating the Vigilant legality, does not collect you, do not have any consensual will on matters that have already been pronounced. But, in addition, Counsellor, an issue that deeply attracts attention is distinction, discrimination between management staff and the rest of public employees and employees. The truth is that by dividing it into numerous articles and derogatory provisions, you call on the despicable, because there are indeed contradictions in the text between articles and derogatory provisions; I think you will know and I suppose you will correct it. But curiously, on the one hand, it is true that for the advertisement and the advertising ministry to which you are used, they speak – you really said it now in the introduction of the law – of the need to comply with the principles of merit and capacity for the selection also of the leadership staff of the Galician Union. This is the ad. But if we come to the law, Mr Counsellor, we see that in the immediate process, once this law comes into force, we hope that you will arrive with sufficient heel to accept the return and start again with the premises that we have just manifested and that the voices of many collectives and many people, and the whole of the civil service trade unions, well, the truth is that, on the one hand, with regard to the executive staff, that one day – according to you – will be elected by principles of merit and ability; however, the law immediately says that the executive staff will continue to be personally directed at the entry into force of the law, that is, not by virtue and capacity, but by decree, Mr Counsellor, by decree. However, the rest of the rights that you announce as from the propaganda ministry, from the propaganda department of the Galician Union, oh, surprise!, come into force to the..., the last first provision, among others: "In the maximum of three years since the entry into force of this law the necessary regulatory rules for the development and full effectiveness of the provisions of Chapter II of Title VI", or last fourth provision, etc., etc. will be adopted. So, Counsellor, the rights that you make the bomb and plate with respect to basic public employees and employees will not come into force until a regulation is adopted. And that regulation to be adopted – you know in your own law – unless you accept amendments from the Socialist Parliamentary Group, they will come into force no longer in this legislation but in the next one. We've already started with the announcements for subsequent elections, we've already started – good soon, by the way – on electoral propaganda, Mr. Counsellor. The truth is that I'm from Ferrol we're used to that before every election, and even today we can go to the media, there's a ship in project, because you've just embarked on the same question about the public administration. But, look, you also make reference to this intense participation that no one picks up, that no one receives, and it's also a complaint from all the collectives, also to the participation of the university. In this project, Counselor, there is no report of the universities, except that the Galician Union had tried to darken it to the opposition groups. If so, we are asking here to correct the error, because the documentation attached to the bill does not go to that report. It is more, asked by the universities, that we are told that, in fact, a law has been made that reaches the staff of the universities, about which the university itself competes within its principle of autonomy, and that you did not count on them at all. I suppose, Counselor, that you won't lie, and that will be a lapse when you say you've negotiated with so many people who don't remember having negotiated with you. But in addition, there is a suspect indefinition – let's leave it like this – about the jobs to be expected for free designation. You're talking about the blur of the principles of merit and capacity. We've seen how long there is to precisely the management staff against the non-directive personnel. But just explain to me what objective criteria you were talking about, to see if we're going to clarify ourselves more. They are the following – and I'm going to pick him up directly from the law, I don't want him to accuse me of demagoxy – he says that they can fall into the posts of free designation in all those of "special responsibility or professional qualification". The objective barrier, Mr. Counsellor, exactly, will agree with me that it is better, because what are those of special responsibility, Counsellor?, are those who refer to a task of danger?, are those who play with the lives of people, for example, about firefighters, who just talked about, the emergency professional?, academic professional qualification?, professional qualification? What, Counselor? And curiously, the council, which had to report on those who could meet those requirements, is cancelled by virtue of this law. Home!, Counselor, the truth is that this clearly sounds like the mordaza law and the People's Party decrees. Also curiously, Counsellor, when you announce – that Mr Feijóo also did so – that payroll accounts will be improved; however, there is no time limit. We're back at the advertising and propaganda department. Because despite what I used to say – and allow me to reiterate – there is already abundant jurisprudence, I suppose you know the hundreds of judgments that exist in the High Court of Justice and in the courts of the litigation-administrative against the Council of Galicia regarding extra wages and labour rights. Well, curiously, there is no time limit for the recovery of these labor rights that the courts unanimously... I suppose there will be no doubt or suspicions about so many courts and so many judges and judges and magistrates and magistrates saying the same thing. Well, because we don't take into account the drastic loss of purchasing rights in public employees in recent times, we don't set the deadline, we stick to an uncertain future and, in addition, we refer to future budgets of the Galician Union. Counsellor, you have lost a magnificent opportunity in these previous autonomous budgets to accept the amendments of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, in which a count was allowed, which has also been, since you are cutting off the extra payments, to make effect what you announce, but without counting, and without putting it in the budgets. Well, it's as easy as conditioning it immediately to the existence of budget adjustment. There are no – and if I'm out of time – validly defined criteria, Counsellor, for the staff of the management of the instrumental entities – which, of course, in Galicia are many – as well as for potential or reliable staff. Of course, let's go back to the escape of the principle of merit and ability, Counselor. Merit and capacity for whom? Once again, we meet the principle of merit and capacity for basic public employees and employees, but certain posts have to be bleached and escaped from that constitutional principle. And once again, let me tell you that it's true that you do nothing but praise that Constitution in the face of the terrible rupture that presupposes the postulates of opposition groups, but once again every bill that brings here systematically violates that constitutional text. A little coherence! With respect to memory and economic report, they are inconsistent and imprecise...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u33	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u34	...it is impossible to determine – it is finished, Mr President – through the memory or the economic report when all these issues are going to be done that you have just stated and that in the text of the law they are not collected. Therefore, Counsellor, once they are inaccurate, we have no more remedy, as Members of Parliament as well as even in my case as a lawyer, to welcome us to what the law says. And the law once again establishes – I feel, Counsellor, I repeat, is here – that it will not be possible until the regulation is adopted, and the regulation requires three years to pass it. So it won't be passed in the current legislation, and we're once again in the electoral campaign. On these issues and many others which, due to time constraints, it is not possible to point out, Counsellor, I ask that the law be withdrawn, and that if you really want consensus, you should seek consensus. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u35	Thank you, Mrs. Sestayo. Round of non-amendant groups. Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u36	Thank you, President. Good morning to all and to all; Good morning, Counselor. Let me begin by sending a solidarity greeting to the members of the Committee of the People's Company, who today start a hunger strike in protest for the dismissal of ten cellphones and three administrative officers after a week earlier they had withdrawn an ERE for illegal, in view of the unimpeded look of the Council, complicating the aid deterioration and the working conditions. A strike that begins today, Galaga Workers' Day, in a political context where the class struggle is more alive today than ever. The Galaga Work Class Day was declared as such by the German Parliament on 5 March 1997, although it did not reach its official rank until 2006. Still, and curiously, it's the only institutional date the Government doesn't celebrate, even more, it despises it. And proof of this is that today we are doing a full day of the Galaga Workers' Day, when all of us should be in Ferrol supporting the struggle of the Welsh public naval sector and showing our respect for the struggle of the Galician working class, which today is personified in Amador and Daniel. And this bill, counselor, reflection, that same policy of submission to financial power and the impoverishment of the working class. The privatization of public services continues and continues to increase inequality. I'm going to start with inequality, gender inequality, which – as the spokespersons that preceded me – seems a lie that at this height of the 21st century they have to correct a government text for gender, for not using a non-sexist language. That indicates the lack of commitment by the German Government to the whole problem of equality, which remains, as always, in a mere posture. The law also reflects the deeply anti-democratic character of the Government and its contempt for trade union organizations and local institutions, its disinterest in reaching consensus. This is also reflected in the refusal to forward the draft law to the ESC. How can you justify the negative saying that these matters are not directly linked to Galicia's social and economic development? How can a government claim that public employment legislation is not linked to economic and social development, especially when it is born linked to budgetary needs? How can the Government state that the quality of public services is not closely related to economic and social development? He has only one explanation: for the Greek Government public services are understood, as they were previously understood by frankism, as services of charity to the poor. I don't know if you wake up, Counsellor, – I suppose so – from Operation Plus Ultra, from birth prizes or medical clinics. The policies of the People's Party bring us back to those dark times. The bill, in addition, is called "Galiza's Public Employment Act" and, however, forgets many subjects directly related to the employment of teaching staff, researchers and health care professionals. The democratic quality of the processing of this law was also manifested in the exclusion in practically all the articulation of the participation of trade union organizations, after not having opened a negotiation period with them during the processing of the law. It highlights the constant lack of reference to the one established in the collective implementing agreements, and in particular to the Fifth Single Staff Convention of the Galician Union, in an attempt to eliminate the rights of employees and public employees. In addition, the bill seeks to protect the administration by seeking to establish working conditions unilaterally in case of failure to reach agreement with the union representation. Where are the labour rights in this bill, Counsellor? Where is the bargaining capacity of trade union organizations if there is a prior legal imposition, if there is no agreement? Even so, the bill seeks to further reduce the negotiating and mobilising capacity of the unions and the employees of the Greek administration, ensuring the imposition of minimum services without collecting the obligation of prior negotiation with the union representation. It calls for contradiction also between this bill and the triumphal speech on the economic recovery that the People's Party has. If we are actually recovering, why is this bill going to be directed throughout its text to ensure budgetary stability and cuts in public services, making it easier, for example, for job amortization? As for the interim staff, the treatment given to them in the bill has a lot of similarities with an ETT scholarship. Continued expenditure restraint, so far from considering these personnel necessary for the provision of service, in the bill it is ensured that, regardless of the needs of the service, the recruitment limit of the temporary staff will never be exceeded. I mean, the quality of the service in the background. It consecrates the precariousness of work, the eventuality, the fraud in the current recruitment. It aims to limit union action and impose unilaterally and without negotiation prior to minimum services. It also loses this bill a great opportunity to fight against fraud and corruption, mentioning solely the legal responsibility for converting into indefinite contracts, but avoiding any other criminal acts carried out from political power. And he makes mention of this indefinite conversion of possible contracts to legalize the amortization of indefinite jobs, won in firm judicial judgments, and hired by private companies. As for the executive staff, the bill advances in the free designation without control of these positions, by not collecting either the nature of the posts or setting a time limit for them to occupy. Eliminates the requirement to be employed and employed publicly to access a managerial position, e.g. in agencies, autonomics, consortia and public business entities. I mean, this bill guarantees the party's entrusion within the administration. It is introduced as a requirement to participate in the selection processes that no public administration or the constitutional or statutory bodies of the autonomous communities have been dismissed through a disciplinary record. It's a restriction on the right to public employment that has no parallel in legislation. Article 56.1(d) of the Basic Statute of the Public Employee contains the requirements of not being separated from the service or disabled, but does not make any reference to disciplinary dismissal. This provision could therefore be unconstitutional for violating the right to work of Article 35 of the Constitution. Even so, you went on with an article that is clearly unconstitutional. In relation to the selection system, the bill favors the darkening more and gives a greater capacity to predict, excluding the union representation of the specialized and permanent bodies that are created for the organization of selective processes. In the bill, to protect political power further, it is ensured that the designation of members of selective processes is not carried out by draw. And in case this was little, it obliges technical discretion, thus trying to limit the actions of the courts of justice. Technical discretion implies that the person assessed with technical criteria cannot be corrected by a court applying legal criteria. If justice gives in to this technical discretion, what jurist Eduardo García de Funería has described as "the horse of Troy in administrative law", there is no equality of opportunity and transparency in access to public employment. With regard to performance assessment systems, the criteria of transparency, objectivity, impartiality and non-discrimination are totally absent, since fully subjective issues are evaluated, such as the degree of interest, initiative, effort, in which public staff perform their work. Counsellor, I'd like you to explain in your reply how you measure interest, how you measure initiative and how you measure effort. And I'd also like you to answer if second-hand strike involves having less interest, having less initiative or making less effort. Because everything seems to indicate that there's going to be a great union repression here about employees and public employees. Nor will the participation of the union representation for the approval of performance assessment systems be counted. You could talk for an hour about the negative aspects of this bill, continue with the policy of cuts and privatization. A bill that attacks the most basic democratic rights of public workers' representation bodies. A bill that tries to legislate to ensure opacity in access to public employment. A bill that does not solve any of the current and future problems and needs of public services, conditionaling their own existence on financial stability. A bill aimed at perpetuating the precarious employment and wage of employees and public employees, fraud in recruitment, eventuality, excess workload, deterioration of public services, appointments to finger, privatization. A bill that doesn't solve the salary debt the Administration has with the public workers and workers, which doesn't solve the recovery of lost rights. In addition, the bill favours the lack of transparency in selective processes and in the performance assessment process, creates defence of employees and public employees, as well as of citizenship in general, by avoiding the participation of trade union organizations in commissions of merit assessments, abilities and attitudes. But indignation reaches the limit when one reaches Article 50. No government has ever insulted so much its people and its culture. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, Greek is the language of Galicia, it is also its official language, Spanish is the co-official language; what you are collecting in this bill are measures of negative discrimination for our language in favour of Spanish. Whoever offends his people like that shouldn't rule. Only for this should they present all of you and the Government that support the resignation of treason to the people of Greece. So we will support the amendments to this bill and we will pray that, at least, in what is in the text, from now on there are two fundamental things that can never give rise to an amendment: some are the rights of the workers, the Greek as the language of our people and equality between men and women. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u37	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u38	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, greet the people who accompany us in the rostrum. Good morning, Counselor. I'd like to begin my speech with a double congratulations: Since this is your first intervention in this House as an adviser, we would like to congratulate you on your appointment. From the People's Parliamentary Group we consider it an honor to be part of President Feijóo's Government, although you were no longer away from this task, because it is now in a higher stairway. And we think it's an honor because, you know, you're sorry, Counselor, President Feijóo and the people who were part of his government, they opened in Galicia and Spain in 2009 a new way of doing politics. A policy that accords with the times that some were unable to see: austerity policy, policy of doing more with less, policy of things important above superfluous, citizenship policy over bureaucracy, policy of maintaining public services at the expense of spending less on administration -- something that some of them criticized and many now preach. I remember when six years ago some with their little mouths denied the crisis and the big one was called the president "Alberto I, the Austere." They made fun of austerity policies every time a superfluous spending game was reduced, they called it the "chocolate of the oyster." But while the Government of the People's Party of Galicia did not lose sight of the work, the responsibility and the effort it had to make to get Galicia out of the crisis in which others had us. And with that responsibility, the People's Party's Government, in the hands of citizenship, managed to put Galicia in the first positions of more Solvent autonomous communities in Spain. He's worried about who cares, Counselor. And, as Paulo Coelho said, "the world changes with your example, not your opinion." The second congratulations of the People's Parliamentary Group, Counsellor – as you see – are already weighing them down. The second congratulations, Mr Counsellor, is because of the bill we are debating today. [[Murmurs.]] Don't listen to the noise of the opposition, don't listen to the apocalypse that some are predicting, for the end of the world will come, but as those who organize is Alternative Left Galicia we have no date yet, so tranquility. Well, let's talk now about the Galician Public Employment Bill, which establishes a common framework that will affect 120,000 public employees and employees in our autonomous community. We are before a law that, although some are committed to denying it, is born of a long period of elaboration, of negotiation with the unions, because the first draft that was handed over to the trade union organizations, Counsellor, – some do not know it, and it's good that we remember it – is April 12, 2013. It's been almost two years since union organizations had this draft. And from that delivery, many and many meetings were held, not only with the advisor who preceded you in charge, but also with many formally and part of the agenda, but also with the General Public Service Directorate. And through these meetings many of the union representatives' proposals have been incorporated into the law. After the vote, three claims were incorporated into the negotiating table, the three most important claims made by trade union organizations. First of all, the removal of the so-called "higher positions of the Administration." Galicia is the first autonomous community that eliminates by law this supplement for former senior positions approved by the Bipartisan Government. Secondly, setting up a fund to recover the extra December 2012 payment and the replacement of the specific supplement in extra payments. And thirdly, the general coverage of service heads by specific invitation to tender. So it's surprising to this group that some talk about public anti-employment law when I pick up the three star demands that the unions made, in addition to another eighty-five that you just commented on. Can anyone still maintain that the demands of workers' and public workers' representatives have not been collected in the law, that there has been no negotiation? As the Counsellor has just said, more than one hundred and fifty allegations have been incorporated, both from trade unions and other agencies. It's true they didn't pick up all of them. But the negotiation does not force us to collect all the proposals, to negotiate and to reach agreements, and so we have just seen one hundred and fifty proposals collected are not few. Because of course there were trade union proposals that could not be assumed, because, for example, some were not in agreement with that established in EBEP, as for example, to which I intended to allow "to extinguish" all indefinite personnel did not make; this question that even violates constitutional principles of access to public service. In other matters, the law was improving as negotiations moved forward and as demands were reflected. What happens, ladies and gentlemen, is that the unions did not close with their vote at the end of the negotiation, but the Executive valued their demands beyond the negotiation and incorporated these issues before their entry into this House. And once you get into this House, it's true that the parliamentary groups received union organizations, associations, professional schools, but they didn't come saying that the law was bad, that the law was bad. I don't know what they told the opposition groups, I know what they told me and the friends who were at those meetings. There were demands, for example, for the creation of specific scales. Each one came to propose his demand, legitimate on the other hand, but some were collected in the partial amendments of the People's Parliamentary Group and others because not, because, perhaps not, because the legislation did not allow those demands to be incorporated into the Public Employment Act, but not because they were absolutely against a law, as you say here, which is against everyone and in which everyone disagrees. No, that's absolutely false. Mrs. Díaz asked the advisor why an economic memory of the economic impact that would have the two-week increase on the maternity and paternity leave is not included. And that's a proposal from the People's Party, it's an amendment from the People's Party, and it can't come to the House with an economic impact report of a measure proposed by this group through a partial amendment. So they can hardly incorporate an economic report. He said there's a gap between women who enter high office. Look, there's a report, Mrs. Díaz, and to you, which is a lot of reading reports, I recommend you read one of September 19, 2014, in which it's said that Galician Union equals the number of women in high charge with men. Out of 851 people with high responsibilities in Galician union, 423 are women and 428 are men, that is, 50%, Mrs. Díaz, when in 2009 we were at 30%. So the commitment to the People's Party's equality rate is more than justified with facts, not words. I was saying that the law follows its process of perfecting once it entered the Chamber. That's why this work has not yet been completed, still the work of tabling, negotiating parliamentary groups. And believe me, ladies and gentlemen, that the People's Parliamentary Group will be the last to stand up at that table, we will try to negotiate until the last amendment, and I hope the rest of the groups will have the same attitude. We, for our part, will try to improve whatever this rule can, because we believe and we want the best Public Employment Law for the best public employees in Galicia, in order to achieve the best public services for the benefit of citizenship. Public employees have shown much more responsibility than you have shown so far, because they are aware of the situation in this country in recent years. And they made an effort, just as many employees and employees of the private company did, many autonomous, many small and medium-sized enterprises. And they also made an effort that now with economic recovery it will be possible to get their purchasing power back to pay levels little by little, of course yes. Some people were asking because the law doesn't specify those deadlines. I recommend that you read the transitional provision first tenth, because it specifies the deadlines, says that in 2015, you put the "2015", that I don't know if some don't read the law or don't know, but it sets the year 2015 for the recovery of the first part of the extra payment and makes it a recovery fund. And you who have read it, Mrs. Peace, I know that you have read it, but some who have not read it should read the transitional provision the tenth first, because it speaks of a fund during the next three budgetary periods, and gives at least three years. So those who don't see deadlines in the law should read it. And also, Counsellor, you will agree with me that those who have not read the law that there is no definition in the forecast of posts of free designation, because it is not true, because the free designation will be virtually reduced to general sub-directions and high-level secretaries, which is precisely what established the bipartite in Law 13/2007. They also criticize the increase in potential staff. Well, I know they don't like us talking to them about the bipartisan, but it's inevitable to compare in this area what the current government's behavior was, with a 33.9% reduction in potential staff, with respect to the previous government. We're at the 2004 level in 2015. And one question I've talked about at the beginning of my speech: in a context of crisis and budget decline, the Government of the People's Party has made a commitment to spend less on the administration and on the government so as to be able to provide more resources for citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, they were also talking about the establishment of the essential legal regime of the management staff of the autonomous administration. Well, I don't know if they haven't read the law either, because it's not a law with an authoritarian and totalitarian text, nothing like that, because the development of the specific contest will be done by decree and with union participation through negotiation. Mrs. Sestayo, if there is any correction to the rule because there is a malfunction between some articles it is not up to the Government to do so; the law is already in the House and it is up to the groups to present the corresponding amendments to make those corrections of what you are talking about. As far as management staff are concerned, it should be remembered that the text we are discussing today is more restrictive than current state legislation, the basic Statute of the public employee, approved at the state level by three of the four trade union organizations of this autonomous community: Labour Commissions, UXT and CSI-CSIF, as well as that established by Lofaxga, which was also approved by the three unions I have just mentioned. Similarly, this bill is going to sink into some of the measures that have been faced in recent years, such as the impulse of the transfer contest. For the first time in the law, time flexibility or teleworking. Some critics, but officials and officials and workers who are enjoying that possibility of reconciliation through telework know that this is an important and fundamental measure. Also stabilization of the Galician Joiner template. For the first time, the law converts fixed labor to staff. Ladies and gentlemen, the Government of Greece has shown over the past six years that it values staff's work in the service of the Administration, that it respects it and considers that it is essential for the provision of a quality public service. Since the beginning of the Galician crisis it has been the Community that has kept its number of troops more stable. The drop was 0.6%, while in the rest of the autonomous communities it was 1.2%, i.e. Galicia reduced half of what the rest of the autonomous communities and the state in general. With the same evolution as the average of the autonomous communities, Galicia would have nearly 3,000 fewer troops. And, well, I know they don't like it, but I'm going to give them the data from Andalusia. In Andalusia, in two years, 18,000 jobs were abolished for employees and public servants. If Galicia had followed that same path today, we would have 5,200 employees and fewer public employees. And now I would also like to mention three false stories that were said about the law: Firstly, on the scope of application and foundations. It is absolutely false that the law leaves public societies and dependent foundations out of the scope of action. This was already settled in 2010 with Lofaxga, a law that was supported – as I said – by the main unions, except for the IGC. Secondly, another falsehood about minimum and strike services. It is not true that there is abusive regulation of minimum services; on the contrary, there are now clear judicial statements about it. And some who like to read sentences so much, I recommend that they read them, but anyway, not only what they're interested in. And a third falsehood is about evaluation and performance. It is false that evaluation and performance present a person's control issue. In no case does the project establish a subjective assessment of the public employee by the superior; on the contrary, the law states that this valuation system will be established in a later regulation and, in any case, in that regulatory process will participate in trade union organizations, as could not be otherwise. I'm done, ladies. The current law is 1988, i.e., it's almost thirty years old. Today we are talking about a law that seeks the modernization and rationalization of the public function, incorporating administrative simplification measures; a law that introduces a common framework for all administrations of the autonomous community; a law that aims to adapt the legislation to the basic statute of the public employee of 2007. Ladies and gentlemen, the People's Parliamentary Group will not accept the return of this normative text, we are before a 21st century law for a 21st century society. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u39	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Replica of amending groups. Parliamentary Group of the Galgo Nationalist Block, Mrs Paz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u40	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning to the people who accompany us from the public, who surely in many of the interventions that we will hear in the back of the ILP that will defend the promoter, they just dismantle what you have just said in your speech to Mrs. Prado. This bill is not going to modernize the public administration, because it leads us to a public administration – as I have said earlier – which is more typical of the 19th century, but only the cesareanties are missing, than of the 21st century, and much less will help shield the public services. They and they will basically talk about the public service of teaching, which is one of the ones who suffered the most. And this law not only consolidates cuts in staff rights, but also consolidates cuts in the provision of public services, depreciations in jobs, and consolidates non-refundation through the replacement rates of public employees who are lost. And as Mrs. Prado says we don't read, I brought the bill to literally read, in addition, what the bill says, and I'm going to give only four brushes of why we go to a teledirected administration, not to an administration of public employees serving the civil service, but to the service of the Government. It seems that the People's Party, through the creation of the executive, prefers or intends to create an elite body solely in the service of the Government. See, in the article regulating the management staff, it is said that a specific scheme will be created for the management staff, which will be made by decree of the Board of Directors. But the law does not allow criteria to be established in relation to, or how access to, management staff status is, or how the staff manager's job provision is. That, by the way, should not be as illegal because in the legislations of other autonomous communities, as in the Valencian Community – also governed by the People's Party – or in the Balearic Islands – also governed by the People's Party – is indeed regulated. And it has to be said that for the Galego Nationalist Block it is also scandalous that article 34 allows the instrumental entities of the Galician Union to be even personal executive persons who are not even employees of the Public Administration; that is, any militant of the People's Party who find it on the street can put it as the executive staff of an enterprise entity. With regard to the free designation, therefore, of discretion in the public administration, it is true that you have said it half by half, Counsellor. You said that the use of free designations is restricted, but what you literally say is that you can reach "the general or equivalent sub-directions, the high-level secretariats and, exceptionally, those other jobs of special responsibility or professional qualification that are determined in employment relationships." Therefore, it is absolutely consistent with the arbitrariness of the Galician Board's decision in drawing up its respective TPPs which are by free designation. And in case it wasn't little and it hadn't arrived at discretion on the part of the Public Service for free designation, you still invent this theme of the specific competitions, which, in fact, does not give me time because we have limited time, but if you read article 91 you also see that it is an inexhaustible source of discretion in the use of the Public Administration. And finally, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to reiterate that on the part of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego we have kept our amendment to the whole of the refund of this law for three fundamental reasons: because it is a law that not only modernizes the Administration, but that, as we have already said on several occasions, it brings back the preteritious moments of history; it is a law that flagrantly violates the right to collective bargaining of public employees, as we have explained earlier; it is a law that consolidates Galician Union policy in three areas which have been systematically criticised through judicial rulings, as is the subject of the economic rights of public employees, the violation of the rights of the collective agreement and even the linguistic rights of the people of Greece, as we have previously put forward; it is also a law that from the point of view of progress is a genuine chauffice in what we have to see...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u41	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u42	...on the scales set. And, therefore, not only does it give no solution to any problems that the public service may currently have, but it is the only tool to do it more for the service of power and less for the service of citizenship. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u43	Thank you, Mrs. Paz. Parliamentary Group of the Alternative Left Gallega, Mrs Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u44	First of all, note that Alternative will maintain its amendment of return, Counsellor, and even support the amendments which the other two opposition groups have tabled. But I would really like to respond to some of Mrs. Prado's considerations, because I really want to focus on the concern that reflects this rule for Alternative Left Galeg: First of all, Mrs. Prado, you, although playing with words, know perfectly that there is a completely legal obligation, because that is what Lofaxga requires, to incorporate an economic impact report into this rule. I set an example, I set the example of motherhood and paternity, the problem is example mode, I suppose you understand me perfectly. It certainly coincides with the report of the General Adviser, which says that this rule lacks that preliminary report. Because the first question, and I do read the norm and quote it in addition to the EUR 17.5 million for this year, I forgot the contingency fund, but I spoke directly about the amounts that are recorded, is that they're not for the application of the norm, they're for the application of rights that have reached by sentence the public workers and workers. So we have a right and, in addition, it is a legal obligation as such to the norm itself. Secondly, what you have done now also with regard to the trivialization of a constitutional right of a modern state as is the right of strike is also dangerous, Mrs Prado. Because one thing is that a later sentence after the practice of strike tells us what it says about minimum services, and another thing is that you want the Galician Union to become already a judge and a party, and tell us already, because it also appears in the nomenclature of its own standard as something substantial, which are the measures – and God literally – that must be adopted for these minimum services. Well, this is extremely incorrect and also leads to a violation of fundamental rights. You can't be, fortunately, judge and part. And, of course, let the courts say what they say about minimum services. There are more than worrying elements, Mrs Prado, and you also know that, and it is reflected in that report, to which it is true that you reply – to the Legal Counsel, I mean – saying that they do not share the recommendations you make. And then, to tell clearly who it will be, as will be the public assessment mechanism, they answer in writing that it will be arranged through a regulation. You will surely agree with me, Mrs. Prado, although we do not agree with the political model of public administration and much less of the rights of public workers and workers, in which this technique is aberrant. Not to mention that they are aberrant specific issues, such as when it comes to paying staff for purposes, that someone from the People's Party tells us here who's going to be the person who measures that performance. Because we are faced with the provision of public services, we are not on Telephonic; we already have telephone complexities, and by the way, we lose almost all the demands you have on these issues of productivity for purposes, the more to incorporate this dissonant element into the Public Administration. So let's be clear, i.e., workers and public workers have the right to know who's going to be in control or set their targets for pay. Because you know – and I don't think it's a totalitarian norm, I think it's a norm (and I've already said it) proper to radical neoliberalism – that I don't agree with. Look: if I look back at the model that Garcia de Funeral defined – which was quoted here – and others have nothing to do with it. Look at what I'm saying: extremely dangerous. This is the absolute liberalisation of the public administration, it is a step forward, it is – I said – privatizing the public administration. Therefore, in total inconformity. Another issue which has been raised by the Advisory Report is the provision of posts. In the wording that you do, not you, that does in this case the Executive, which is just pointing out that the posts will be provided objectively. How objective is it, Mrs. Prado? Tell us, how is it objectively?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u45	Finish, please, Mrs. Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u46	Because you know that both pay and loss of pay, as well as evaluation, and career promotion only for a few, of course, are absolutely indeterminate. And on the other hand – finally – with regard to the data you were giving, I think very well about the executive part, but I'm sure he trusts – and I have literally – that he does not lie the gender impact report when he says that there is an "absolute asynchrony" in the equality policies of the Galician Union.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u47	Thank you very much, Mrs. Díaz. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Sestayo Doce has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u48	Thank you, President. The truth is that I thought we were going to have a more enriching debate, but since Mrs Prado's only argument is that the People's Party must set the example and everything else is disqualified, well, because I think there is little more to discuss about the Gürtel party's example. So I will continue, Mr Counsellor, by crassing matters because we continue to ask for the amendment altogether. Well, the truth is, we present a hundred and eighty-one amendments and, therefore, there will be a possibility to debate and enrich a text. That text, as we pointed out, because I also gave you articles in particular and last provisions whose literal content I deferred – that must not be a mistake since it is the bill published in this Parliament's bulletin, and therefore official text – adds those announcements that you make within three years, say that the regulation will be made within three years; it tells you different last provisions and different precepts as I read before. So that's the evidence of the text of the law. They ask here who can say that unions don't feel represented. Everyone, all the unions. There is a unanimous declaration from the unions that this law has been made in a totalitarian way and that it does not collect labour rights, which, on the other hand, is obviously given the body of a text – I insist – which leaves charges to the finger. Those blindfolds immediately, which will remain indefinitely in their positions according to the law, while those rights which they proclaim to public employees and employees remain after the autonomous elections. This is the reality of a legal text, which, unless it is rectified in the plenary debate, only one must be able to read. But, moreover, they have passed here – I think you will know – tens and dozens of groups of professional colleges with respect already simply to additional eight. As you know, there is an inadequate – let us leave it to try to be respectful – classification within certain groups for various groups of workers and workers in the public sector. With regard to the eighth additional provision, there are only two assessments concerning the qualifications required for access to certain positions or scales of the public service: or although there are errors manifest in the drafting of the Public Employment Bill, whenever – I insist – there are a lot of professional schools that have paraded and which also bring the Law of Titles, they bring the relevant rules on the functions for which they were enabled by their title, and the contradiction in contrast to the Public Service Bill; or it is a hoax, which are in time to correct by accepting the amendments of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and the rest of the opposition groups; or it is something that is intended to privilege – as some professional colleges are denounced – some of the collectives that are opposed to others. We're not going to judge intentions about what they wanted with this eighth and other additional provision. The fact is that there are clear contradictions between what allows the Law of Titles and what allows the Law of Public Employment. Furthermore, Counsellor, you used to make a reference to better announcements for equality of women and men, and simply, Counsellor, will allow me to recommend the reading – and I say so with respect – of the Equal Labour Law, approved by this Parliament under the Bi-party Government. Many of the ads you make are vigilant in Galicia. Another thing you confuse, don't apply the laws... How are they not vigilant? No, they're vigilant, they just stop applying them. Only if you take the Law of Equality, take the Law of Gender Violence, take the Law of Equality at Work, and you will see how mandatory – without having to make great advertisements because they are already enshrined in the Law – rights for women, even in the discharge of public service. That's what the cross-section of equality has. What happens is that your party is still starting to reform the Abortion Law, which we answer, we continue to answer all society in the street, and I suppose now they'll re-align this weekend and have a party with the Family Forum. Well, you don't understand that these vigorous laws are enforceable, Counselor, and that it's not an ad.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u49	Finish, please, Mrs. Sestayo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u50	The Socialist Parliamentary Group therefore maintains the amendment to the whole against a bill that we consider arbitrary, unfair and deeply retrograde and which also contains manifest errors in its articulation and last provisions. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u51	Thank you very much. We continue with the development of the agenda, with point 2. Debate on the proposal for a law, on a popular legislative initiative, on measures to restore the working, professional and remunerative rights of teachers and to improve the quality of education in Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u52	For the presentation and defense of the bill has the word of Mr. Anxo Louzao Rodríguez, to whom I ask you to approach the rostrum of the speakers. I pray the first Vice-President of the House to come and pick up Mr. Louzao at the front door of the Chamber. Welcome, Mr. Louzao. You have, for your intervention, a time of fifteen minutes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u53	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, good morning. Good day also to a representation – since we are unable to attend all the members that we promote this initiative –... but, well, in any case, good day to this representation. And I also want to thank you to the extent that you've had an important job for today to make possible the defense of this ILP. First of all, I would like to thank the 22,918 people who have made it possible for their signature that we are here in Parliament today by giving their proposals and demands a voice. Thank you very much all and all. In recent years, with the pretext of the economic crisis, public education has been a serious, numerous and relentless attack; it has been and is downgraded and in continued liquidation. The People's Party imposed an educational policy based on the destruction of public education and on the expansion of the new concerts, including those that segregate the student on the basis of gender; an educational policy that pursues and despises teaching in English, cuts the teachers' labour and wages rights, despises their work, limits the right to education and eliminates equal opportunities; an educational policy aimed at forming a more classical education system, segregator, merchant and Spaniard. We have an educational administration that is insubmitted to the judicial resolutions that it has in its existence numerous judgments against its actions; a council that impedes the work of the People's Valedor, which does not comply with the dictates of the Galicia School Council and which reduces the negotiating capacity of the sectoral table; a leading, authoritarian and anti-democratic council that uses the institutional web portal to attack the professor and his representatives; a council that is submitted to Madrid's mandates, which has no doubt used the teaching and teaching of Welsh as an experimental laboratory of the People's Party's most reactionary and anti-democratic policy; a council that plans and acts according to the interests of the employers of concerted education and ecclesiastical hierarchy. All progress has been made, such as the freeness of textbooks, the salary agreement of the teacher, the expansion of the staff frames of the children's and primary centres, the reduction in teacher's educational hours, the right of the replacement staff to charge the summer months and the extension of studies licenses were liquidated by the People's Party. But it also suppressed the suspension of the educational concerts at the centers that segregate the student on the basis of gender and the duty to impart mathematics and 50% of the subjects in the Greek language. He eliminated the Pre-School Program in the single home and exclusively because it was a program entirely in English, suppressed and degraded school services in rural areas, closed schools, grouped students of different ages in the same class and suppressed specialists. Meanwhile, he worked on new units and increased the number of students per class. These years have been a constant face to the teacher. The authoritarianism, the lack of dialogue, and we're not talking about negotiation anymore, were the constant and distinctive brand of the Education Council. He acted erraticly and irresponsiblely in the call for the resolution of the general invitation to tender for transfers, called into question the teaching work, with continuous actions, statements and attacks on the professor and his representatives. The disparaging message of the teacher repeatedly transferred to public opinion was aimed at twisting reality to blame us for the consequences of the lack of means and permanent cuts with which the Government of Greece hits public services. The teachers, like the rest of the public employees and employees, have seen our labor, salary and professional rights diminished and robbed. Our salaries have been reduced by 20% since 2009, so that, for example, a master or teacher without any gender since 2010 accumulates a loss of his salary of EUR 24,026; and a teacher or teacher of the secondary body, with five sexes, has accumulated a loss of EUR 42,005 since 2010. We were suppressed the extra December payment of 2012 and we continued with it reduced. The school hours were extended, we were forced to perform functions other than our profession, we were reduced by wages because we were sick and we were retiring LOE. We can say that the destruction of employment in public education was devastating. Over the past four years, only 485 squares have been offered, while more than 4,000 teachers and teachers are retired. Today more than 1,200 teachers share subjects of which they are not specialists, increased roaming and part-time contracts, many interim teachers were fired and another became replaced. More than 10,000 teaching posts have thus been abolished, adversely affecting the quality of teaching and the action against school failure. The permanent and serious cuts meant greater social inequality, worsening the quality of education, limiting access to education, strengthening complementary services, removing the freeness of textbooks and poor attention to diversity. But they also assumed an insufficient supply of squares in the first cycle of childhood education and vocational training, not to cover the teacher's degrees, reduce scholarships and increase the cost of university fees. The neoliberal bet is present in all the educational performances of the People's Party; the most obvious example is the extreme reduction in public education budgets. Since 2009 they have decreased by 680 million euros, i.e. 33.5%; when the amounts for educational concerts have decreased by much lower: of the 244 million they perceive, 49 million corresponds to non-compulsory education and 3 million to the centres that divide. This budgetary policy has a devastating impact on the quality of education and prevents it from addressing the most pressing needs of school. The approval of LOMCE has aggravated this demolition of permanent cuts, it is a sustained counter-reform in the commercialization and privatization of education, in the strengthening of confessionality and in the further Spanishization of education. LOMCE forms a more selective and classical education system, disallows the teacher, slides the democratic management of the centers and subsidizes the lack of knowledge of our language. LOMCE segregates or students through itineraries, revalids and different titrations in compulsory education; and denies a Welsh teaching, a scientific teaching and a secular teaching. It is essentially a neoliberal model of education for the service of the ruling classes paid by the public era. Its application, in addition to not observing legal proceedings for servitude to the mandates of the Wert ministry, is assuming an absolute disincentive and a chambonate which is causing confusion in the professorate and anomalies in the functioning of the centers. The reasonable and normal thing would be to paralyze your application, because we all know it's a law without a future. The imposition of Decree 79/2010 on multilingualism requires an attack on linguistic normalization and seeks to further reduce teaching in English. He eliminated teaching in our language in children's education and in Spanish fields and prohibited teaching in English from technical and scientific matters which can be taught in English. [[Murmurs.]] If they shut up, then the truth is, it would be much better. Besides, you probably don't get any harm...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u54	Follow me, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u55	...to the former advisor of education, because of something you can draw some conclusions. [[Applause]] The current decree of multilingualism poses a real threat...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u56	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u57	...for the future of our language...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u58	Quiet, please. And you continue, please, Mr. Louzao.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u59	The current Multilingualism Decree poses a real threat to the future of our language and does not even guarantee that the student has sufficient competence for his or her use. But the disillusionment and crusade of the People's Party against the Language is not limited solely to the application of this decree, but it has designed a whole path for its extermination. So, among other offensives, he suppressed the obligation of, at least, to perform one of the tests in Greek to enter the public service, fired the professor who taught the Celga courses, removed the line in Greek in childhood education, reduced the aid to the standardization teams and dismantled the model education of the Welsh schools. Today we have more than thirty convictions for unfair dismissals and nullifications from the Celga teacher who really come to confirm the repressive and illegal performance of the Education Council. The Education Counsellor must end the vengeful and persecutiond attitude against this professor and readmit him again, once the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia declared null and void the dismissals and confirmed the illegal and repressive action of the Union. The disregard for the Welsh language, despite the galloping loss of speakers, particularly between girls and young people, is found that the money allocated in the budgets of the Union has decreased by 67% since 2009. Linguistic normalisation for Government Fexóo is worth only 0.0007% of the budgets of the Union. This bleak educational landscape was what led the IGC-Essino to present this initiative, which, if approved and implemented, would mean a real educational change and would serve as a foundation and revolutionary in order to equip ourselves with another educational system. This popular legislative initiative is part of a basic principle, such as the development of a Welsh law of education to the service of Galicia's interests and needs, in line with our social, cultural, economic and linguistic reality; a law that guarantees the universal right of all and all Welsh people to a public education that offers sufficient squares at all educational levels, eliminates concerts, prohibits those who segregate the student on the basis of gender, derogates LOMCE and seeks a Greek, secular, co-educational and democratic education. During its articulation and derogatory provisions a series of claims are granted and the restitution of the rights which the professor is claiming, proposes a Greek statute of teaching, asks for the restoration of wages and extra wages that have been reduced to us since 2010 and the rise of wages, at least equal to the IPC. Even so, the perception of 100 per cent in temporary disability situations and the abolition of rest rates are demanded, broad job offers that at least cover all vacancies that occur, the provision of administrative staff and other non-teaching staff and also the restoration of teaching hours of the teacher and the recovery of the reduced morning day in June and September, together with the recognition of occupational diseases and trade union elections by work centre. This is a bill that aims to defend and improve the quality of public education as the sole guarantor of equal opportunities. To achieve this goal, it is essential to reduce student ratios by class, to offer sufficient public squares from 0 to 3 years old, to devote 7% of GDP to education and to provide sufficient teaching centres. Even so, it is necessary to draw up a preferential action plan to combat school failure, to ensure attention to diversity, to ensure adequate schooling for students with specific educational support needs and to cover all the work casualties that occur. It is urgent to offer enough FP squares in public education, to expand and create new language schools and to dedicate the necessary mechanisms so that higher artistic teachings can be applied to university. We must ensure and facilitate education in rural areas with all means and resources, ensure the universal freeness of textbooks, of teaching material, achieve free use of the dining room and offer free school activities. It is necessary to democratically manage centres and direct and democratically elect leadership. The increasing disqualification of the education system, the loss of speakers and the backwardness of teaching in Welsh are concerns raised in this popular legislative initiative. That's why we propose different measures aimed at full linguistic normalization and fully teaching in Greek. The application of the General Linguistic Standardization Plan, the setting of own curricula and the setting of a training plan is called for the teacher's set to teach the classes in English. To make all these measures collected in the ILP feasible, it proposes the derogation from those norms issued by the Galician Union and harmful to public education, to the rights of teachers and to linguistic normalization. Galicia's lack of political capacity to decide and limit the power to legislate on many issues that are now within the jurisdiction of the State. That's why ILP collects that the Central Government is urged to repeal different royal decrees and laws, such as LOMCE, which are legal support for many of the cuts implemented in public services and labor and social rights. It's over. Finally, the objectives of this ILP are to recover and restore all the labor, salary and professional rights that have been taken from us to the teacher during these years; to recognize and evaluate the teaching role, by strengthening the Greek negotiating framework and the drafting of the Statute of the Greek Professor. With this ILP we aim to contribute to the development of a truly Greek education system and a public education of quality, inclusive, equitable, free and universal, essential for a more equal, just and democratic society. We need an educational system inserted into our national reality, so that it responds to education needs in Galicia; an educational system that allocates the necessary budgets and resources to public education, ends with privatization and moves towards absorbing all competences in educational matters; a public education system that is free of charge, free of charge, secular and democratic at the service of the Greek people, which forms free citizens and citizens and contributes to the necessary transformation of our society. This is the purpose of presenting this ILP, for which we call for the support of all Members of this Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u60	Thank you very much. Thank you, Mr. Louzao. You may remain on the scene until the end of this debate. Round of parliamentary groups. We started with the Joint Parliamentary Group. You have the floor to Mrs. Iglesias sueiro.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u61	Good morning. Thank you, President. Taking into account this proposal for a law of popular legislative initiative will count on our favourable vote because we understand that the right to a public education – they are sorry for the voice – and of quality must be the cornerstone of the welfare state, and that investment in education is undoubtedly the most cost-effective society that makes a society that bets on the quality of life of its citizens and on the integration into the collectiveity of all, with guarantees of success, on integral education in terms of equality and social peace. This initiative is essentially based on the principles of the republican school of the Second Republic: a free, compulsory and secular school of quality, which recognized the freedom of chair and proposed a new work-based pedagogy. It is important to note that the republican capital plan – professional plan – had four years of career: the first three of training, and the fourth of practices. The goal was to dignify public education through a well-trained teacher. Professionals who were later purged by frankism and replaced by persons lacking training, but close to the regime, who devalued the figure of the master; figure who, on the other hand, put value to the second Republic and which is one of the cores of this initiative. The teacher and the girl were, and I'm on this initiative, the first citizens. The work of the School of the Generalitat of the Second Republic made Catalonia a leading country in pedagogy throughout Europe, despite the short period of time in which it could act and the difficulties that imposed the political shocks of this historical period. A school system inspired by the values of children's and children's freedoms, the use of all their faculties and the awakening of a critical, civic and committed consciousness. "School for All," it was the principle that inspired the educational policy of the progressive governments of the Second Republic, since the very birth of its proclamation, on April 14, 1931, and thus increases the educational budget by 50%. Only in June of that year came out of the contest 7,000 master squares and in one year 13,000 educational centers were opened. Even in the 18th century, the encyclopedists believed that a well-informed man was a young man, and that evil was nothing but a consequence of ignorance. The illustrators identified knowledge and instruction with progress. These ideas are gathered by the Free Teaching Institution and also by this initiative. The republican educational institutions maintained complete education without prejudice, which was the basis of a democratic and progressive society. They defended integral education, that is, a culture of body and mind; the development of reason and science; health; hygiene; personal decor; physical vigor; feelings; habits and aesthetic tastes. They also defended active education. Students could not be considered passive subjects capable of accumulating the most varied content, but they should be actively involved in learning. And mixed education has also been a beginning since the lower levels. And it considered the republican school of vital importance to the cooperation of teachers with families, since they understood that the educational work competed with the school and the family. Family education, education at school and doctrine at temples. In short, a public school, compulsory, secular, mixed, inspired by the ideal of human solidarity, where activity is the axis of methodology. One of the main historical figures that left us in the Second Republic is the figure of the master, and one of his achievements, which has been carried out, is the attempt to lead education to the people. This concern about spreading culture and progress is the origin of one of the most beautiful things – according to this honourable Member – that took place in the Second Republic, the origin of the Pedagogic Mission Patroate, whose purpose was to lead people, preferably those who live in the most remote rural areas, the momentum of progress and measures to be part of it, in their moral stimuli and in the examples of universal progress, so that all the peoples of Spain, even the most remote, participate in the advantages and noble pleasures reserved for urban centers and religious education. The sponsored adjournment established libraries, organized cinematographic sessions – we are talking about the thirty years –, radio and record auditions, reduced art exhibitions and even travelling museums. What a high point of view, ladies and gentlemen, what a modernity, what a universal and future view of teaching! She thinks that re-establishing republican values in education is a priority, essential in these times of unbearable inequalities and undermining the figure of the teacher and even the fact of education and culture. Nothing else. Say hello to the republic! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u62	Thank you very much. For the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mr. Pombo Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u63	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen invited to the gallery that you are accompanying us this March 10, the Glaga Working Class Day, very good day. Mr spokesperson for the ILP in defence of labour rights, professional and remunerative rights of the professor and the improvement of the quality of education in Galicia, welcome to the Greek Parliament. The Parliamentary Group of the BNG welcomes the popular legislative initiative that we are now submitting to the consideration of this Parliament; an initiative that comes with the support of 23,000 signatures and that you have defended with the dignity of that endorsement and the dignity of the organization that you represent, the Confederation of the Glaga Interunion, the majority education centre in Galicia. Mr. Louzao, the BNG will support the consideration of this ILP because we believe that the Welsh Parliament must defend or reintroduce the working, professional and remunerative rights of the professor, cut in the so-called "the Feijóo" and that it must improve the quality of teaching in Galicia, damaged by the policies of cutting the call was Feijóo. Ladies and gentlemen, the defence of teachers' rights and the defence of the quality of education should be defended in this Parliament by all parliamentary groups. Of course, for us education is a fundamental pillar for the development and well-being of our nation. Consequently, the achievement of a quality public education system is truly Greek, and for us it becomes the best formula. Extending access to education will combat the improvements of social inequalities. That's why the BNG defends the consideration of this ILP, because we defend a fully Greek education system, planned and ordered according to our needs and inserted into our social, economic and cultural reality. The BNG defends this ILP because it envisages measures such as an educational system to the basic public service of our country, which we consider – this educational system – central to social transformation, to Galluization and to the integral development of Galicia, because this initiative also envisages the modification of the current legal framework in the field of education, which the BNG considers necessary to be necessary to enable education to serve a multi-national, multicultural and multilingual state of the Spanish State; the Spanish State, by course, that reserves many of the powers that Galicia would need in order to be able to arbitrate its own educational policy. Ladies and gentlemen, all here in this Parliament say they recognize the work of the teacher, they all defend the quality of teaching and be supporters even of the promotion of our language, but educational reality is another. At the time Feijóo, the legislation and the average consumed, the Government of Greece liquidated progress made before 2009 such as the freeness of textbooks, the extension of school lunches, the pay improvements of teachers, eliminated hundreds of school units, closed dozens of schools, and reduced the staff board around 3,000 teachers. The reality is a constant cut of more than 30 % of the budget, which implied a decline in the quality of public education – very serious – and serious work cuts to teachers. It's the Wert model that applies in Galicia without shame; an attack on the deterioration of the quality and quality public education. And, ladies and gentlemen, the BNG understands that this ILP must be taken into consideration because Galicia needs a law of education from Galicia that guarantees sufficient public education, material and teaching resources as well, and needs to modify education legislation, prohibiting segregation centres and eliminating or making death – or that it has already been born dead – the LOMCE itself. The Greek Government needs to be able to ensure public, secular, co-educational and democratic Greek education, and for that, this legislation needs to be changed. We must take this ILP into consideration because it is necessary to restore the dignity and respect of teaching professionals, starting with their salaries, which have been taken away from them since the year 2010; to return, not to give the candy of an extra payment that has already been granted by the courts of justice, but which accelerate until the year 2017. We must take this ILP into account because Galicia needs broad job offers. In the years of the era Feijóo more than 4,000 teachers retired and only 485 squares were summoned; 3,000 jobs closed, and now they come with a 432 caramel, which seems to be the great panacea. We must offer more squares and we must take this ILP into consideration because teaching in Galicia needs a teacher who is prepared and trained to ensure a renewal and educational innovation and the Galeguization of our teaching. We should consider this ILP because education in rural areas must be of quality, not grouping several levels of students into one class. There must be a necessary equipment also in rural areas to ensure the same quality as children receive in their own villages. We must ensure democratic management of centres and put the fincapé in democratic management. And since last Sunday was Women's Day, it's important to remember that in primary, 81% of teachers are women, plus directors, they correspond to 22%. So we have to put on mechanisms that favor the equality plan as well in our teaching. We must take this ILP into consideration because it includes measures to promote the use of the language of the Greek language in the teaching and the Galeguization of educational content. Ladies and gentlemen, ILP defends galluguization, but they also defend it to the Royal Galaga Academy, the Galician Council of Culture, the General Plan of Linguistic Standardization and the same youth, which today in the press spoke of asking for more Greek in teaching. The Greek society also defended it on February 8th, filling the Quintana and streets close to thousands of Welshmen who demanded urgent measures to regain our language, claiming to reverse an IGE survey that should represent an urgent SOS for this Parliament; because that urgent SOS is telling us that the Greek ceases to be the common language of most of the population of Greece for the first time in history. German education is an exception in the children's classes in the cities. The German, ladies and gentlemen, is the only language, the only language in the Spanish state, which loses speakers, even though the German Government and the People's Party that supports it have repeatedly denied it from this rostrum. This ILP and the Galician society claim to open a new way of the future for our language, which must, of course, begin by the readmission of Professor Celga, who has been expelled from education illegally, who must begin by derogating the decree of plurilingualism...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u64	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u65	...–I shall finish, Madam President–; Decree of plurilingualism which has only been used to cut our language. We must take seriously the more than 400 measures in the General Linguistic Standardisation Plan adopted unanimously by this Parliament to start a new path. I'm going to finish. Mr. Louzao, reasons for taking into consideration this ILP supported by 23,000 Galicians and Greeks have them, are of weight and would help improve the quality of non-university Greek education. The Parliamentary Group of the BNG will support your consideration. To improve the quality of Galician education, Mr. Louzao, for the restitution of labour, professional and remuneration rights of the Greek teacher, I hope that the support will be of the whole of the Greek Parliament. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u66	Thank you very much. Parliamentary Group of Alternative Left Gallega. You have the word of Mr. Ramón Vázquez Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u67	Good morning to all and to all and, in a special way, a greeting to the promoters of this popular legislative initiative so appropriate and necessary in these times; times when it is being subjected to absolutely unnecessary tensions the Greek educational system, which is being compared in addition to usual with educational systems from other countries and other contexts. This is a way of comparison, based on reports involving an obvious bias, because it is impossible to compare educational systems that are part of different social realities, different cultural realities and different economic realities. A clear example is the PISA Report, a model of report comparing countries, educational systems and educational centres that direct their teaching-learning processes to students very different in very different contexts. Teaching-learning processes don't go far from reality. A class in a school in a working district of Vigo has little to do with a school in Vilarino de Conso, and let's not say with a school in a suburb of Paris. And a test designed in an OECD office can't measure, it can't reduce, these realities to a mere evaluator item. So there are a lot of indicators and variables that determine the quality of an education system. But, said this, if we take a look at our surroundings, if we analyze the quality of systems, of different education systems, of the most valued, we see that there is one element in common in all of them. Regardless of their daily model, regardless of their methodologies, of the resources used, there's a common element in all better valued educational systems, and that common element is the social consideration of their teachers, the prestige of their teachers. So first of all, I would like to value on behalf of AGE positively the fact that this ILP precisely relates the conditions of teaching workers to the conditions of quality of education systems. So one of the essential functions of a government must be to enhance, promote, social consideration of its teachers. And that's exactly the path that the Government hasn't walked. On the contrary, far from fulfilling this task, the German Government has employed and is repeatedly using the professor as the currency of exchange to justify his educational cuts. A clear example of this attack was the modification of the teachers' day, the modification of the teacher's day. The only thing that was done was to extend the teaching hours by keeping the working hours marked, of course, by a law of higher rank. And besides, he lied to citizenship by saying and treating the teacher as if it were a sort of kind of privilege that only worked 25 hours, so, of course, devalued his working conditions. He has attacked and undermined his dignity and professionalism, and that will never forgive him by the Greek teacher. In addition, complementary hours were removed, complementary hours in which the teacher prepared support work with the student, coordinated the school libraries, organized complementary activities, theatre works. Those elements that precisely determine the quality, the point of quality of an education system, have been completely demolished. But there are other displays of disillusionment and contempt for teachers. A master who is currently suffering from a common illness or a non-working accident will charge only 50% of his salary for the first three days of his discharge. The illness and illness of a teacher are punished in an absolutely inescapable way in a democratic society. But this isn't the most serious thing. The German Government refuses to cover the teachers' casualties in the first 15 days of their production. So it's the centers that have to be organized during those fifteen days, joining the student or reorganizing teaching tasks, which implies a precariousness of the quality of teaching. And if we talk about cuts in the number of troops, this government has come to say – using its own numbers – that the disappearance of more than 1,250 teachers did not imply a decrease in the quality of teaching, as if the more than two million hours of teaching work and what that means were absolutely useless. The level of degradation of the teaching function reaches the end of forcing the teacher to impart subjects from which he does not possess the specialty. Can anyone imagine how a teacher, a math teacher feels, forced to teach music or a Latin or Greek teacher by imparting philosophy? This is the quality model of the People's Party. I would invite your lordships, especially the lords of the People's Party, to spend a school day in a class of 25 girls and 4-year-olds and to look at how they reflect their family problems, how they gradually overcome their learning difficulties when they are given proper and continuous attention and how they learn to understand the world and to find their place in contact with others, with companions. Energy is the activity that I'm able to deploy and which must be channeled to its own profit. I would encourage them to observe how they acquire the first letters and how they learn to explain the world with them. I have the feeling – and every day I have more clear – that this complex universe, that rich microcosms, escapes this government, and that is absolutely unforgivable. When teaching is precarious, teaching is devalued, but the worst thing is that when teaching is devalued, society as a whole is devalued. The German Government cannot simplify the demands of the teachers' collective in purely corporate claims. The Greek professor has been protesting by summoning strikes and participating in them against the Wert Law, in defense of the Greek language, as recently happened, and never in defense of his pure personal interests. Perhaps that's why this government has dismantled everything that is the teacher's representation bodies, reducing the number of hours of union delegates by half and subjecting to continuous contempt the teaching sector bureau, reduced to a merely consultative body, in the best of cases, and without negotiating capacity. For the Greek Government teaching is a kind of factory, as if it were a factory of screws or bricks, with an hour of entry, an hour of exit, subject to external organization and evaluation criteria, even subject to ISO quality certification processes, centered on results, measurable and quantifiable, managed as a company in ERE, in addition to allowing them to escape their potential best. But school doesn't work like that. Every small advance in education, either in a country or in a classroom, takes years of effort and dedication. Every small retreat or every lost opportunity is simply irrecoverable. A school, education, works with precious and sensitive material, not measurable, and of course not quantifiable. The education system cannot be divided into plots as if they were business areas. University education is absolutely related to childhood education. The school dining service is as educational as a geography lesson. The democratic functioning of a centre does more for democracy than this Parliament. The functioning and cooperation of the educational community is a key piece that is being dynamized by this government. You can't talk about static compartments, we can't cut down on language policy...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u68	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u69	...or in promoting reading without affecting the reader's understanding or the ability to analyze our students. The threads, ultimately, that move education are far from the laws of the market, but you have subjected and submerged the education system to an absolutely anti-pedagogic verbaree, centered on concepts such as competitiveness, talent, productivity, excellence... that's your universe, but it's a universe alien to the hexemonic values of the pedagogical world. The philosopher Byung-Chul Han said that, of course, we are preparing our students to be the previous model of the 19th century, focused on exploiting the individual and, therefore, asking the school to prepare individuals to be subject to the laws of the market, to the new context of the 21st century, which is precisely preparing citizens to self-exploit themselves. And this is what we're doing. You're colonizing...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u70	Please finish, Mr. Vázquez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u71	...the pedagogic universe with words that are alien to them. Now fashion word is the "acquisition of competences"; an imported word from the world of work and alien to the pedagogical universe. So this popular legislative initiative is achievable, it is necessary, and we hope it will be taken into account by the group that supports the Government. We, of course, will. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u72	Thank you very much. Socialist Parliamentary Group. Mr. Docasar Docasar has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u73	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Louzao, welcome; Mr. Counsellor, also welcome; also to the public, and also to all welcome. I would like to begin by greeting and congratulating, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, all the people who have made it possible for their work and their signature that this Parliament is debating today. I have already told you that the Eighteen Members and Members of the Socialist Group will vote in favour of this initiative being admitted to the procedure. We share most of the arguments in the explanatory statement, although I do not want to deny them that there are some issues in which we have, as is normal, some discrepancies, but that would obviously be at another point in the debate. I insist that we share most of the issues raised by ILPI, and there are to demonstrate that the many initiatives in the same line presented by the Socialist Group in the mandate of the Socialist Group in this Parliament and that many of them are in agreement with the statement of reasons from this ILP, which Mr Louzao presents to us today: initiatives in favour of public education and their teachers; initiatives in order to demonstrate it the many initiatives in the same line presented by the Socialist Group in the field of mandate in this Parliament and that many of them coincide with the one set out in the explanatory books of this ILP explanatory statement of reasons which Mr Louzao presents to us today: initiatives in favour of public education and their teachers; initiatives in defence of the improvement of the facilities of educational centres and their educational facilities in the educational centres in which they are in the primary schools for computerized services, primarily for transport and for food and food; initiatives to ensure access to foreign language learning skills in foreign languages abroad, and not in the Peares, Mr Rodr region, Mr Rodríríguezr Rodríguezr Rodríguez, there; initiatives to demonstrate it; initiatives to show it; initiatives to eliminate; initiatives to eliminate; initiatives to eliminate; initiatives to eliminate; initiatives to remove the efforts to remove the digital initiatives to remove the digital initiatives to remove the digital, to remove the digital initiative to remove between the digital initiative to remove between, to ensure the creation, to ensure the creation between educational leadership between between between between educational leadership between educational leadership between educational leadership between educational leadership between educational and education and education centres and education and education centres and education and education and education and education centres to ensure, to ensure, to ensure, to discover and provide, to denounce, to denounce, to ensure, to ensure the means to discover, to ensure the brutal, to discover, to discover, to discover, to ensure the rapid, to discover, to discover, to discover, to ensure the rapid, to discover, to discover, to ensure the rapid, to ensure the rapid, to ensure the rapid, to discover, to reduce, to ensure the rapid, to discover, to discover and to discover and to discover and to reduce the rapid through the rapid through the rapid through the rapid through the rapid, to discover, to ensure the rapid through the rapid, to discover, to discover, to reduce, to discover, to discover, to reduce, to reduce, to discover and And we could continue to set examples, Mr. Louzao, but I think they're enough to guide where our work goes here. Today, it is basically about whether or not we are going to take this ILP procedure, and the Socialist Group says that it is in essence consistent with the statement of motives and also tells us about the work done by many people to make this debate possible, in particular 22,918 people. Having said that, we're going to the millionth of it. For us, Mr. Louzao, the role of the teacher is absolutely key to the good march of an education system. Making the teacher feel good should be an essential obligation for a serious and responsible government, without them and without them there is no possible educational improvement. I want to take this few minutes of what I have available today to talk about the treatment that has been given to the professor of this country in recent times and to make a strong defense of his work and his dignity. No education system, I insist, can move forward without the teacher's involvement, and that requires respect. The Socialist Group wants to take advantage of the debate of this ILP to defend today the thousands of teachers and teachers who have seen in recent years as if they were robbed of their rights achieved with the efforts of many years, as if their working hours and the number of students per class were increased, as if they were eliminating support and reinforcements for students with learning difficulties and even as if they were deprived of their right to get sick, or if they were obliged to provide subjects closely for those who are not prepared, who also saw a new education law imposed on them, without the slightest consensus; a new law that comes to erase democracy from the centres by converting school councils into mere flowermakers to the service of directions that will now be arbitrarily appointed by the political power of shift; a new deeply sectarian and party law, a law that the People's Party has made in solitary and therefore has a clear date of expiry: November 2015, a law that has put in place in a good way and wants to finance morewords. The Socialist Group therefore considers that the time has come for the recovery which both announces official propaganda, that recovery is perceived by teachers and teachers. It must not be forgotten that in these years of crisis thousands of teachers have been lost in schools, institutes and universities, that the Greek teacher has recently lost about 30% of his purchasing power, that many vocational teachers decide to leave and retire in advance for fear of the future and for fear of not knowing what is in store for them. In August 2013, Mr. Rodríguez left 1,030 teachers, in August 2014 was 825. They're cold but very hard figures and should be analysed very carefully by the heads of the Education Council. That's why I'm surprised Mr. Feijóo drew his chest last Thursday by summoning 432 master squares after asking six more times in recent years. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, a whole series of circumstances that must begin to change if the crisis really happened, as they tell us one day yes and another also Mr. Feijóo and Mr. Rajoy. I'm going to finish and I want to do it with a little reflection. For socialists the defense of public education is clearly a red line that we are willing to confront. For us public education is paramount to correct the inequalities of departure and to prevent the family in which a child or a child is born from conditioning its future, but that future depends solely on its effort and talent. And they are many, Mr. Louzao, the issues that measure the fairness of a good education system; an educational system is fair if you ensure that children and children of middle and humble families have the same training opportunities and under the same conditions as children of accommodated families; an educational system is equitable if you ensure that not one child or child goes to class without textbooks or school material or falls without a dining room when needed; an educational system is fair if you guarantee a policy of fair scholarships that does not leave the boys and girls of middle and humble families who have talent but have no money; an educational system is fair if you properly guarantee the treatment that the student receives with greater learning difficulties. Ladies and gentlemen, these are issues that I have just told you about; they are some, not all of them, of which we obviously consider important to ensure the fairness and justice of a good education system. For our group, equity is a matter of principles and values of the socialist ideology itself, and I know it's not fashionable to speak today of ideology at a time like the current one where ideology must be permanently hidden or interestingly disguised. I also want to tell you that, very connected with equity, there is also – and I think it must be – the need to improve the excellence of our education system, and these are not – I insist – incompatible things. To me they are not incompatible, ladies and gentlemen, we have to be able to improve also the excellence of the education system, but it's not going to be that some are just thinking about improving the excellence of elite centers, not the excellence of the whole of the public education of Galician and the student in it. It's about ensuring the fairness of our system and doing so without forgetting the need to improve also the excellence of public education. These are compatible things, I insist, and those we defend public education must not forget. And finished as I began, Mr Louzao, saying that the Socialist Group will support the admission of this ILP. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u74	Thank you very much. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Piñeiro Martínez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u75	Good day to all and all. Thank you very much, President. It is a very good day especially to the representatives of the signatories of the popular legislative initiative, and in particular to the rapporteur, Mr Louzao. Your Honor, Mr. Louzao, I don't think it can fit into any head that are real considerations like those that have been seen here today in this forum; such considerations as the greatest interest of this government is to reduce the quality of public education, it is to attack public education and it is to depress the teacher; even they also say that Galicia's current public education is not of quality or inclusive or equitable. Look, in the hypothetical case that we were from the People's Party so bad that these were our goals – something that is not real; I insist, it's not real – it must be said that they hardly came out to the Government of Galicia these hypothetical destructive claims. Later I will evaluate with specific data and actions that this tremendous and destructive vision that gives you the educational policy of this government is not sustained; data and actions from which, by the way, all those who preceded me in the use of the word have avoided speaking, must be that, positive, they are not interested. We recognize from the People's Parliamentary Group the good intentions that could have led thousands of people to sign this popular legislative initiative. We do not doubt your interest and your good faith, but, Mr. Louzao, allow me to tell you that at 20 minutes of intervention you had not yet spoken of her. Having said that, I would like to point out that the Government's actions in the field of education, social, health, economic and all other areas within the competences of the autonomous communities must be framed in a social and economic context which is not currently like throwing rockets; it has been worse, but it is not the ideal. What they present to us today is an amendment to the entire prevailing educational model in Galicia with the claim to supplant it via popular legislative initiative, and it is legitimate that they want to do so, it is legitimate. But they won't deny me either the legitimacy of this government to continue to implement its educational model; a legitimacy that granted it the polls on two occasions, in 2009 and revalidated in 2012, but also a legitimacy that was evaluated with real results, not with utopias or demagoxies, but with reality. One consideration that I want to make clear today in this House is that there has been no such thing as an attack on public education in German for the benefit of private schools. What happened was a clear bet for public education, providing this with services that previously could only be enjoyed by paying in private education. Today, for example, it is possible to send our children to a public centre where they have a real education in foreign languages, because we have multilingual centers supported by public funds in all the districts and in almost all the municipalities of free, not paying. There was an integral bet on educational policies oriented towards the quality of education that allowed, among other things, to reduce the dropout rate in unusual figures; this figure, in 2009, was almost 26% and that in the last quarter of 2014 was 16.5%, almost ten points of difference. Something would be good, ladies and gentlemen. There were no isolated measures, since an innovative, versatile model has been applied, a model that is alive and adapts to times, to realities and circumstances, as is the case with the bet on vocational training, which has just adapted its curricula to the needs of the Greek productive sectors, with an increase of almost 50%, with a reinforcement of ten integrated vocational training centers more than in 2009 and with more than 100 new cycles since the People's Party was ruling. There has been and will continue to be, as long as the People's Party governs it, a model that is intentionally applied with coherence, with criteria, with realism, an inclusive, equitable and innovative model, even though you say it is not; innovative because it is sitting foundations and moving towards digital education, facilitating free and unlimited access to all the contents of the curriculum of each educational level by means of this opposition program Abalar, which currently reaches 50,000 students. Today more than ever, the education of a boy or a girl from Greece does not vary according to her place of residence, Mr Docasar, or the purchasing level of her parents, and thus corroborate the data of the PISA report, which is now also questioned by the Gaga de Left Alternative Group, and which considers the Greek Education System as the most equitable in Spain, Europe and even in the world, as only Mexico is ahead; inclusive, with the application of the Declaration of Attention to Diversity, because the student who needs educational care other than ordinary is required to be able to achieve the maximum possible development of his abilities without forgetting the general objectives. Here are the programme contracts, the PROA, work on improving key competences, preventing early abandonment and school absenteeism, which has been reduced, ladies and gentlemen, by 50% in the last three years. They also ask us to derogate a series of basic pillars from our educational model, and I'm telling you we're unwilling. It's not because of the head office, it's because of the conviction that it's working. Look, as far as the decree of multilingualism is concerned, I have to tell you that in the People's Party we do not share the vision of those who think that the only valid path is what leads to monolingualism in English. We always believe, on every occasion, in bilingualism, in a balance between the two official languages, and so understood by the Greeks and the Greeks when they voted mostly on our educational program on which this subject was explicitly reflected. And we add English to both languages, and we add Portuguese to that continuous evolution of our model. We will not allow a decree to be repealed by which about 85,000 pupils may learn a foreign language, that more than 62% of the centres have a bilingual section and that nearly 18% of the centres are multilingual. We're not going back, we're not going to get a boost. They also want us to derogate the Dining Order and re-link their gratuitousness to the use of school transport. So we also told him that no, for us, is one of the most supportive measures of our educational model, which allows those who need him to have access to a free dining room, and not simply because they come in school transport. This decree allows more than 80% of users to pay zero euros, and the others do so according to income. Nor do we agree with what we think would be an insolidary retreat. As for the professor, it must be said that since the Government and the People's Parliamentary Group we have always thanked and acknowledged the important and essential work of the teacher in achieving the objectives of the Greek education system, since they have been contributing to their valorization and success. The teacher is one of the main foundations of the system for us, and those who in difficult times and circumstances have been asked for extra effort. That's why we don't think the idea of derogating from the law of coexistence and participation of the educational community, as you propose, is not appropriate for us to create and strengthen instruments that, among other things, dignify the work of teachers. In addition, the Council has just convened 446 places for teachers and inspectors, thus exhausting 50% of the central government's repositioning rate. What surprises us and we find it difficult to explain to society, to explain it to the Greeks, is that they want to increase the number of teachers to convert them into free trade unions, and 45,000 hours of teaching to students and students in Greece. [[Protests.]] Nor can we understand that they criticize the ratios when we have the lowest of all autonomous communities, 9.7%, and the lowest of all students per class, we are the third, with the lowest of 20.9%. I've got a lot left to do...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u76	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u77	...but he doesn't give me any more time. I want to end by saying that what is being discussed here today, the confrontation of two educational models, that of the People's Party, ladies and gentlemen, bears with note any comparison. What you're proposing for now is just paper, which also supports everything. And more than a popular legislative initiative to debate and approve a parliament seems like an election program for citizens to vote on it. But the citizens have already voted, ladies and gentlemen, on two occasions, and they have voted mostly on the educational programme that has been in effect since 2009, as it offers us real results, a model that is solidarity, inclusive, equitable, innovative and adapted to real times and circumstances; in short, a model that is real. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u78	Thank you very much. Mr. Louzao, you have a five-minute replica.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u79	Good day again. First of all, I would like to thank you very much for your support from the opposition groups for your vote on this popular legislative initiative, both for the Joint Group and for the AGE Group and for the Socialist Group as well as for the BNG Group. Also, in any case, I mean that somehow we are the voice of those no less than 22,918 professors and teachers who, with their signature, are, without any doubt, supporting this popular legislative initiative. On the other hand, it must be noted that the vast majority of them are teachers. When speaking on behalf of the teacher, it is important to take these issues into account. [[Applause]] But we're going to talk about legitimacy. I will not remove the legitimacy of the absolute majority that the People's Party has because it is obvious, but I also ask, if it is spoken in the name of the professor, let it be legitimate to acknowledge that the organization that has evaluated and promoted this popular legislative initiative has as high representation as that of the People's Party here. [[Applause]] So, of course, we speak with that legitimacy, but more importantly, you have to know the spokeswoman of the People's Party that this popular legislative initiative was endorsed in December with the votes of workers and teachers; by the way, with a participation of more than 70%. That's the avalanche. We can speak in the name of the teacher, we can speak because we have the support, and we can defend this popular legislative initiative with all legitimacy because we have that support. But, said that, it's really hard to get one to think that you can say things that were said here today, right? You have a supernatural ability to invent reality. One question is realized: you have to tell me whether it's true or not it's true that 3,000 jobs have been abolished, 3,000 teachers in recent years. But I'm telling you more, there have just been union elections, and in the census, from October 2010 to October 2014, there are 2,045 teachers less. But I also suppose you will know – and let me take the data to be the real data – that, of course, units have been deleted in recent years, more than 300 and I peak units – while I don't find the data around here... but it's more than 300 units. I suppose you'll also know that when you talk about multilingualism, multilingual centres don't even think of improving what foreign language teaching is. That is the most tangible example, like the Abalar project – which are the two star programs of the People's Party since its rule – the clearest example of their conception of education. First, it's not for all the centers. So if the teaching of foreign languages and new technologies is the main thing for the People's Party, it's supposed to be for all the centers, right? Or do we want to make a division depending on whether a center is multilingual or not? Secondly, if, of course, foreign languages are fundamental to the detriment of our language, I suppose also the Education Council will do and will have enough specialists, and the reduction of students by class. Because you guys, what if when they take your son or daughter to private foreign language classes, they don't put it with 30 or 35 students or students? Would anyone pay a particular class? Ah! So, let's go to the bottom of the questions and we can look at how, of course, they have two clear objectives for multilingual centres: firstly, to reduce the presence of Greek in teaching, secondly, of course, to enhance private-concerted education. As for what we want is monolinguism, no, look, we want monolinguism as the social use of our language. Do we know what we're trying to do? That our language has a future, and for our language to have a future... and you know it just like us, because you know, the problem is that what you think is not what they say, because of course, if what you think they have come to say it, they would have to radically change their educational and linguistic policy. You know that our language has no future if, of course, it is not imparted in Greek, because I'm going to tell you more, look, we never have as a reflection what happens in other territories or nations of the state, but I'm going to set an example for you. Since 1983, Catalans and Catalans have classes exclusively in Catalan, except...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u80	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u81	...do you know any Catalan or Catalan who can't use Spanish? Do you know anyone? I don't know any, because you know a question? There is no fictitious balance, because there will never be a balance between two languages in social use; there is no balance, but, I say, neither theoretically if our language, obviously, is not empowered in this case, which is what is totally weakened.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u82	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u83	Yes, I'm done. –Let me go because there are a lot of questions left about the intervention of the spokesperson for the People's Party.– We knew beforehand that we were going to have an absolute rejection by the People's Party, because it was their policy over the years. But I'm going to tell you a question about legitimacy, and to see that they have the supernatural ability to lie, I'm going to read them from their show... yes, yes, listen for a moment. I'm going to read to you textually questions that were in your program on your day to have the absolute majority.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u84	And that's it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u85	They argued that the Pre-School Programme could not be drowned at school – and after what they did, of course, was liquidated it –; to improve the education of the rural world – textually speaking: "Proposed to integrate the first cycle of childhood education into the Education Council –; that the priority was to advance the reduction of the maximum number of pupils, who should be 15 especially in child education – said the People's Party in their programme –... but I continue to say: contribute to the improvement of the social considerations of teachers; reduce the teaching schedule to all ages 55; carry out a progressive updating of teacher's salaries; adopt a teacher's training plan...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u86	Finish it, please, Mr. Louzao.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u87	...and increase the gratification for early retirement. And then: to boost the catalog of professional teaching diseases – as you see, he did everything – and to provide child and primary education centres at least one administrative one in order to free the professor from bureaucratic work so that he can devote more time to the work of puppetry and preparation.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u88	Thank you very much, Mr. Louzao. Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u89	...and he also said: extend the caretaker figure to all the centers that need it; empowering the social caretaker figure to attend students out of school hours; and reducing 8% of the school failure rate and 10% of the early dropout of education. With this program you've introduced yourself to the political elections, and of course you've won, but that's also cheating. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u90	Thank you very much. Voting of legislative texts
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u91	We shall proceed to the vote on the legislative texts. We are voting on the first of the legislative texts, with the vote on amendments to the whole; first of all, the amendment to the whole Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block of Wales, document 33788. Voting the amendment to the entire G.P. from the Galician Nationalist Block to the Galician Public Employment Bill. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 34; votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. This amendment is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u92	We are voting on the amendment to the whole Parliamentary Group of the Gaga de Left Alternative, document No 33776. Voting the amendment to the entire G.P. of the Galician Alternative to the Galician Public Employment Bill. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 34; votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. This amendment is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u93	Finally, we voted for the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, document 33787. Voting the amendment to the entire G.P. of the Galician Socialists to the Galician Public Employment Bill. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 34; votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. This amendment is therefore rejected as a whole.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u94	Therefore, the Galician Public Employment Bill continues its parliamentary process. Secondly, we are voting on the proposal for a popular legislative initiative law which has just been debated. Vote on the proposal for a law, on a popular legislative initiative, on measures to restore the working, professional and remunerative rights of teachers and improve the quality of education in Galicia The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 34; votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. This legislative initiative is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u95	We continue with the development of the agenda, with point 2 of appearances. Mr. Advocate General for Culture, Education and Universitary Order, on his own request, to inform you of the general lines of his department Like the Councillor for Culture, Education and Universitary Order, at the request of all Members and Members of the G.P. of the Galician Socialists, to report on the lines of action of the council
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u96	You have the floor, for your first intervention, the Councillor for Culture, Education and Universitary Ordination, Mr. Román Rodríguez González.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u97	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen. Continuity and new impulse: continuity with a cultural and educational model that works and has produced results in recent years, new momentum in aspects that will enable us to advance in the improvement of education and in the defense of our country's culture. In my first appearance as a councillor for Culture, Education and Universitary Ordination, I want to highlight the commitment of the Greek Government to defend our culture, to defend our own language and to bet on the future through education and the university system. We will do so without giving up on the cultural and educational policies that are working and that are enabling qualitative progress for our citizens and also renewing our efforts to provide a new impetus to action and government projects with the challenge of moving forward and not falling into conformism. We are aware that we have to manage a reality in constant change and that it requires a constant adaptation of measures and times, we are aware of the challenges and demands received for this new stage and we are aware of the work done and what remains to be done. I'd like to be able to sum up efforts, add agreements for Galicia to have a stronger culture, with a more used and valued language of its own, with a more modern and quality education and with a stable university system prepared to face the challenges of the future. Culture. Culture is essential for the advancement of Galicia and its citizenship. Faced with the criticisms we have used to hear, today we reaffirm the Council's commitment to exploit Galicia's wealth and cultural potential as a differential and relevant element. We will continue to do so with the resources available and with much effort. The Greek culture has foundations, well-founded foundations, a solid foundation which we must stand, improve and strengthen. We conceived the construction of the twenty-first century Galician cultural performance by acting in the promotion of Galician culture from two planes: first, as a public service, so that citizens can create and develop their personal entity in the community; second, as an industry that generates employment, business fabric and entrepreneurial projects, that the Public Administration has an obligation to support and empower. Both plans, creators and cultural consumers must contribute and contribute to making culture a priority and indispensable goal in public authorities. Although resources are limited, we have an important raw material, we have an active and quality cultural base and we have clear the challenges we face: maintaining and empowering policies aimed at stimulating creativity in different cultural areas – supporting artistic, literary, musical, audiovisual creation, etc. – and providing lines of action that stimulate demand and social participation in culture. The cultural pillars in our policy are: first, the promotion and dynamisation of Galicia's cultural activity. To that end, we will develop and continue to develop actions in archival matters, in book-making – the development of reading – in areas linked to plastic arts, scenes, audiovisuals, musicals – aspects such as programming, museums, theatres, audio-visual broadcasts. And we have two basic instruments: the first, Agadic, which in 2014 was able to manage more than 1,100 functions; and also the City of Culture, where nearly 200 activities were carried out last year, in which more than 11,500 people participated. In 2015 we will continue to work on this line and will continue to strive for culture activity to continue to attract sponsors, continue to capture cultural activities and become a genuine cultural factory, a cultural factory with acts, entrepreneurship projects and venues. Secondly, economic support for Greek cultural enterprises. We're making a significant effort. Without going further, this year 2015 will call for more than 3 million euros for audiovisual production, audiovisual development and also stage production. Third pillar: internationalization of the Greek cultural sectors. We will do this in the book sector, accompanying our publishing companies, and we will also do it with our creators, directly participating in contests and fairs that have international transcendence and trajectory that enable and allow to exchange experiences; there is the recent experience of Womex, which has been a great success. Fourth: promoting cultural training and consumption, mainly between the children and youth, taking into account that the new population, Thursdays, is health or depends on them the future health of our cultural industries. And we're going to make incentives for cultural consumption in children's care and also for youth. Fifth: boosting the activity of the production centres ascribed to Agadic – Galego Drama Centre, Coreographic Center, Galego Center of the Arts of the Image – which will continue to develop activities for the cultural consumption of the Greeks and also for their export. Cultural heritage. Cultural heritage is a fundamental part of Galicia's collective personality and a source of wealth. His position in value and his protection is a work shared between the Administration but also between every one of the Greeks and the Greeks. I announce in this sense that in a short time the Government of Greece will move forward and approve the draft cultural heritage law, which is the preliminary step for its debate in this House. This new normative text will assume a clear commitment to municipal involvement in the management of cultural goods. It's going to be a reduction in administrative processing and, without reducing even an apex to the protection of cultural goods, what you're going to do is improve your processing and your management. It will also be there to recast three pre-legislations: the Heritage Law itself, of the year 95; the Road Law, of the year 96; and the legislation on artistic staffing works, of the year 91. [[Applause]] Language, our language. We defend the conception of the Welsh language, of the Greek language, as a display of cultural wealth and as a sign of identity and means of communication that must serve to unite us and not to separate us. We have to use our language as a channel of integration and respect. Public administrations have to make an effort to convince citizens, to convince citizens to use it more, as a permanent and differential mark of our people. The language policy that is being implemented – and that will continue to be realized by the Galician Union – is part of the conviction that Greek is useful in all areas of social life. In recent months it has been shown that we must abandon political confrontation and move together towards the creation of positive attitudes for Galician language. Only in a climate of respect, tolerance, co-existence will we be able to promote their use out of any attempt at totalitarianism or taxation. The normality of citizens with regard to the use of the two official languages must be transferred, ladies and gentlemen, to the field of political representatives. We must abandon pessimism and we must work – as has been said on many occasions – to take what is normal in the street to politics. Therefore, we have established as a fundamental axis of linguistic policy the expansion of the uses of Greek in society based on the basis that the education system guarantees its knowledge in the oral eido, in the written eido and in the reading; this position is the one that keeps the Government from the beginning of the past legislation. And, ladies and gentlemen, it's time to work on what unites us and not so much on what separates us. It's time to abandon certain criticisms, certain adjectives that only contribute to discouragement in the use of Greek and do much harm to our language. [[Applause]] I insist: citizens normally perceive the coexistence of the Greek and Spanish, as well as the need to promote the use of the Greek for historical and social reasons known to all. It seems commendable that politicians and public officials follow their example, follow the example of citizenship, and move away from the question of language from any confrontation. I have already indicated it in the full past: the language, the Greek, is not the heritage of any political party; it is not the heritage of any political formation; the language belongs to all – those who speak it freely and all those who feel it as their own –; the language, lords, must serve to unite and must not serve to separate us. And the offer of this Union for reaching consensus on language issues remains open. We have already tried to reach a dialogue and consensus in 2013; at that time there have been a series of contacts with parliamentary groups, we have not reached the right port. However, we do not give up at any time to continue working for the social use of the language. We had contacts with institutions as respected as the Royal Galega Academy, as the Galician Council of Culture, and, in addition, we have done an important work for language in different areas: the prol of the mother tongue, the prol of actions of linguistic dynamization in the municipalities – there is the importance of the Linguistic Dynamic Network – in favor of the presence of Greek in information technologies, in exports, in the economy. Or, too, what is very important, is the effort being made to value Greek by taking advantage of the data that joins us with the Lusophony; and the clearest example of this bet is the memorandum of understanding that has recently been signed with the President of the Portuguese Republic under the Peace Andrade Act, which – I remember, ladies and gentlemen – has been adopted unanimously in this Parliament. As long as you decide whether or not you want to reach agreements, this board will obviously continue to work and take initiatives to improve the social use of Greek. And in this sense, we are defining a plan for linguistic dynamisation in the economic fabric, with a 2020 horizon, where we count on the collaboration of several civil and economic fabric organisations in Galicia, which will soon be presented. We believe that Greek is useful in all fields and we believe that basically our work, since we have guaranteed their knowledge of the education system, is to enhance their use by convincing civil society. Non-university education. Galicia has an educational model that began to be defined in 2009. We now intend to give him new impetus. And from that moment on he was betting on a number of variables that we understand worked reasonably well. We bet on languages, we bet on the real integration of ICTs into the learning process, we bet on the improvement of reading understanding, we bet on coexistence and inclusion in classes and we bet on professional training closer to Galicia's socio-productive reality. Languages. I think we all know the progress – very important – that we have had in multilingual teaching in recent years. Quantitative data is above the table, known to all. But I would like to put in this line a new impulse, a new impulse that goes through the extension of multilingual teaching to Bachelorship and vocational training, and also through the progressive incorporation of the Portuguese language into a greater number of classes, in compliance with the Valentine's Law andrade. [[Applause]] New technologies. We all know the results linked to the Abalar Project, which has been greatly questioned in this House. We think it's a model that has enabled -- it's enabling -- that more than 50,000 students can have a teaching in new direct technologies and that there are more than 2,350 Abalar classrooms in the country. And we also did at the time, last year, we made progress on what has been called the digital book, so questioned by some, that nevertheless allowed the educational community to see it very well and to voluntarily join in this first year 84 centers and we had 2,300 students already working with digital books in our country's classrooms. The new impetus is to strengthen the presence of ICTs in education. And first, by extending the digital content, the digital book, more centers and more students, through their implementation, the next course in primary sixth and first ESO; but above all, through the investment to be made, an investment of 11.2 million euros, in collaboration with Amtega, to equip them with computer equipment and digitize the country's classes. [[Applause]] I repeat: an investment that will allow 100 % of the public schools in the last primary – fifth and sixth – and in all ESO classes to be fully digital, having access to the Internet and having their own equipment: projectors, electronic boards, etc. A very significant qualitative leap, which causes the pre-existing digital divide to disappear and will make it possible – I insist – that 100% of the public classes in this country are fully digitized. [[Applause]] The wager for teaching also has qualitative aspects. One of them is the improvement of reading understanding, which, by the way, has been linked to the PISA Plan in recent years, we have seen that there has been a remarkable increase in reading understanding; something fundamental, reading understanding, for educational results and to improve the quality of the system. Well, in addition to the improvement in recent years, thanks to the LIA Plan, to some extent, and thanks also to Plan Plambe, we can report, and we also suggest that a new reading plan, a new LIA Plan, will be put in place for school libraries during the period 2015-2020. And in qualitative aspects as well, linked to coexistence, linked to inclusion, linked to an inclusive teaching, solidarity, equity, in recent times, there have been very significant actions and measures. Attention to diversity. There have never before been so many PT and AL teachers in the public education system in Galicia, and it has just strengthened this template right now with 100 new squares for the system. The cohabitation in the classroom has improved. The detection and treatment of school harassment was improved, with measures in which we were pioneers even at the state level. And many classes of reinforcement for students have been launched with special educational needs, linked to disorders such as dyslexia, autism or others. All of this has contributed to the fact that German education, ladies and gentlemen, is much better today, having much less resources than six years ago. The new impetus in this matter, and after approval, there are very few dates, of the decree of coexistence, is given by the creation and opening, within a short period of time, of the Council for the School Convivence of Galicia, a forum that will make it possible to improve the school climate, which is fundamental to improving educational performance. Vocational training. We understand that this area of education is fundamental, that it is fundamental to reducing school failure, that it is essential to improve youth employability and that it is essential to improve the competitiveness of our productive sectors. God in this House is a true silent revolution in the field of vocational training: the squares have doubled since 2009, connectivity has improved with the productive sectors, there is dual vocational training; that is, vocational training has greatly improved as a basic aspect of improving the quality of education and improving the future of our youth. The new impetus in this education agenda is to deepen the implementation of basic vocational training in this second course and to strengthen entrepreneurial culture in educational centres, so that it can be propitiated, so that the Greeks and the Greeks, the young people and the girls, can acquire knowledge and professional skills, which will be very useful in their lives. And in that sense, we have also programmed an important investor effort to provide professional training for those high-tech equipment that will enable students to use these machines – we think of electronic equipment, digital equipment – to get the most modern in the market, so that they can get better and better prepared for working life. And we can talk about, in this sense, that it will invest, a new investment will be made more than a million euros, to equip the vocational training centres with equipment and equipment. That is to say, we're going to spend more than a million euros in the past year on renewing the equipment, part of the equipment of the vocational training centres, putting in these workshops high-tech equipment – I insist – so that our students get better and better prepared into the labour market. [[Applause]] LOMCE. In this course 2014-2015 LOMCE is being applied with total normality and without any kind of drastic ruptures in primary and also in basic vocational training. We must recognize that there is a calendar that obliges autonomous communities to develop the new decrees of ESO and Bachelorship, and Galicia will do so. Galicia is going to make it based on institutional loyalty and based on the interest it has for the country as a whole the improvement of educational quality, and we will do so – yes – without giving up our own competences and we will adapt it to the reality of teaching in Greece. And in this sense, I can also announce that in the coming days, immediately, the initial texts, both the ESO decree and the Bachelor's decree, will be submitted to public exhibition. The ESO and Bachelor's Decrees will be made public so that the educational community can provide those suggestions that they understand can contribute to improving the texts of the decrees it will provide, in this case, the Educational Administration. And it would be good if he abandoned systematic rejection, or not for the sake of it, that he would not take us anywhere, and that he worked positively for the teaching of Greek. Educational infrastructure. The processes of learning, of teaching, are carried out in centres, in physical spaces, in buildings. I mean, and I want to point out that certain demographic concentrations are being detected in certain geographic areas, which imply that there is a need to improve specific educational resources. That's why, and also because of the reorganization of different European funds, I want to announce that we are in a position to deal with investments for more than 6.1 million euros to expand and improve educational centres, educational centers spread through the four provinces, and of these 6.1 million euros, 5.6 are going to be devoted, essentially, to the expansion and improvement of centres, and 0.5 equipment, to improve existing equipment in many centres. [[Applause]] If we add to these amounts of EUR 6.1 million to high-tech equipment, to the FP cycles, and add to them the EUR 11.2 million so that 100% of Galicia's public classes in the fifth and sixth primary and ESO are digital and have access to the Internet, we can conclude – and we conclude – that this year will invest a new amount of EUR 18.4 million, EUR 18.4 million that will be dedicated to improving the material resources in Greek education. In addition, we will keep it free of charge for school transport, where I remind you, by the way, it's a huge economic effort for Galicia, 120 million euros, but we understand it's fair to keep it. And we'll also do it by stimulating the new dining room system; in fact, we've recently had a meeting with 50 APAs in Galicia to offer them the opportunity to assume the management of their dining room. University. In relation to the Greek university system, the first thing we have to say – and I think it is worth stressing – is that since Galician Union we have the utmost respect for university autonomy, so that these, in the functions and missions that are legally assigned, act autonomously in teaching and training professionals, in investigating and also in transferring knowledge to society. Also the Galician Union has its responsibility, which is a coordinating function of the university system. In this context, we have a trajectory, proven since 2009, to be able to achieve great agreements, great consensus with the Greek university system. There's the funding plan 2011-2015, there's the university system law, and I'm telling you we'll keep doing it. Without going further, we're talking and we're having relations with universities so that, at the moment you play the temporal restructuring of degrees – of what you're defining, the 3+2 and the 4+1 – this government will actually support the proposals made from the Greek universities; that is, we're going to be in that place where the Greek universities ask us for government. Also, at this moment, we have been able to implement rationalization measures on the titration map, based on a decree, gentlemen, also agreed with universities in 2011. And that's all we were able to do with a university funding plan that enabled Galicia to be and is the second autonomous community where less contributed, reached universities, and made it possible for there to be financial stability, and enabled public resources transferred to universities based on results, and enabled the level of university research to be dedicated to university research, to be at the same levels as for example in Basque Country or Catalonia. And that's all we were able to do by keeping the lowest university rates in the state as a whole and by making a complementary policy of scholarships so that no Welsh or Welsh would stay and stay out of the university system for economic issues. And we're gonna keep doing it, and we're gonna keep negotiating. We are in the process of negotiating the new funding plan, so that this model of funding for results, which has been pioneering in its time, remains present in the models of financing of the Greek universities. We also understand that this process of dialogue will make it possible to bring sufficient resources in line with the financial reality of our community to universities. No doubt, in this process we have begun, there will be discrepancies, but in the end, what matters is that we are able to create a common roadmap between the three universities and, in this case, the Council of Galicia. Now, ladies and gentlemen, this first intervention, in which I exposed much of the Council's strategic lines, and, as I said at the outset, our policy, in what remains of legislation, will be characterized by continuing and maintaining what works and is working well and also giving impetus to a cultural and educational model that is working and achieving results. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u98	Thank you very much, Counselor. Round of parliamentary groups. Joint Parliamentary Group. Mrs. Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u99	Thank you, President. Good morning, Counselor. I want to begin by congratulating you on your presence to report on the general lines of your advice. And what I hope is that from now on, try to make an effort to change the policy of your predecessor, who was quite erratic and conflicting, Mr. Vázquez, and so sorry, but we just heard him at the ILP. If anything positive – and I've already said it – had your advisor, Mr. Vázquez, it was to be able to agree with the entire cultural and educational community in assessing its government management as a disaster for culture, language and public education in our country. Of course, you have a record, a true record. But what's strange is that, in view of this success as Education Counsellor, Mr Feijóo now decides to award the Oransans by appointing him as a candidate for the Mayor. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] It would be good – and we're going to the question, we're going to the question – for our country that this state of things had changed and that you were able to change it. That is your challenge: to regain a climate of harmony within the Council, within the educational community, both with parents and teachers. We're not, of course, going to ask him to make a public expression and disengage himself from the path of those who evaluated him to be in his position today. Certainly, that of the examination of conscience, the pain of sins and purpose of the amendment, I hope it will look good to you, leave it in the inner walls of the temples, which is where you have to teach in any case the Catholic religion. You are part of a Government, Mr. Counsellor, who has been acting inexorably against the basic rights of our citizenship and, in particular, against teaching, culture and our language, creating problems that will pose a real challenge to return to the previous parameters of when the People's Party occupied Galician Union. I'm going to make a short report of those decisions that have led us to the point where we are: dismantling public education in favor of concerted education, planning against the recovery of use for our language and reducing their presence at foreign language level in teaching by means of the decree of plurilingualism. So all his speech about the language is that it really is to cry, because he has never been so punished; neither Manuel Fraga was able to do as much damage to the Greek language as the current Government of the People's Party is doing, in addition to the elimination of nearly 3,000 jobs for teachers and teachers. Therefore, we claim that you legislate to promote private education, condemning public education to have fewer workers, providing a poorer quality service with the disappearance of reinforcements and placing obstacles to attention to situations of special educational needs, the precariousness of the working conditions of the teacher and increasing the ratio of students by class as well as the educational time of the teacher. Counsellor, you are part of a Government that is aware of firm judgments and various judicial resolutions that have not been executed, so the Welsh Administration is already an example of insubmission to justice. His counsellor has behind him a deeply authoritarian and anti-democratic trail, which, as Mr. Louzao has already said in his speech, has come to use the institutional website to attack workers' representatives, as he also did in that speech to the spokesperson of the People's Party before a person who is not parliamentary and who comes here, a blatant insult to the unions, who must have been called to the attention of the president. A government that has no doubt put the education of our children into the hands of the most repressive and committed politics, represented by LOMCE. Counselor, the hemerothecs are there to make sure what I say is true. APA statements, clauses, school councils, university principals, strikes, mobilizations from different sectors and now the ILP we have just discussed. In short, they are facts and the reality of public education that can best portray the results of their politics. I hope you change the policy lines of the Education Council, but I don't know if you'll be able to do it. And I doubt it, Counselor, I doubt it, because you had the opportunity these days to make decisions and point in the right direction, and the answer, however, of you was nothing but continuity, continuity and more continuity. Counsellor, in the union elections, despite the belligerence of his council, he repeated the majority representation of the unionism that faced the political decisions that led to their practice, the IGC. They show these results, from my point of view, that those who are close to reality have strongly expressed that another educational policy is needed. The mobilizations and pronouncements in favour of measures favouring Galicia's own language have reached support in institutional and social fields which have never seen so; even the UN has already received complaints about this situation. We don't have the same rights today as the Spaniards. Because the problems of Galicia's teaching, language and culture must seek solutions in the land of the agreements and away from the proposals and decisions that have shown a resounding failure. Imposing the absolute majority on issues so important to our country, on issues of country identity, is never a good idea. Counsellor, you also had the opportunity, at a meeting he held on March 6 with the IGC, to speak and make progress on an agreement in teaching. However, you also refuse dialogue with the unions, continue to bet on the People's Party as a majority force, and therefore it does not count on anyone. It was a shame they hadn't voted in favour of this ILP. Matters dealt with at the meeting that you could solve, such as pay cuts, cuts in labour rights, destruction of employment, cutting of 36% in recent years' budgets, liquidation of free textbooks, drastic reduction in student care with specific educational needs, Decree of multilingualism, dismissal of the Celga professor, application of LOMCE, general invitation to tender for transfers – which today is still unknown when the sentence is to be executed. You chose the silence, just as President Núñez Feijóo does; this silence which is prelude to decisions that will repeat paths that have already failed. Therefore, I dare say that you will continue with this policy of subsidising the centres that segregate the student by sex, expanding the educational concerts, maintaining the cuts in democratic management of the centers, being belligerent with culture and the language of Galicia, cutting teachers and discriminating negatively those who need positive discrimination. –I'm going to finish it. I was going to read them some statements, but I don't have time. So I'm just going to tell you that you have the possibility to amend a policy that only brought about inequality, discrimination, democratic cuts, belligerence with our language, lack of opportunity, emigration from the scientific community. You must seek out that national agreement that places Greek in its rightful place by statute, and our teaching is not vanguard. You have the opportunity to go through being the only advisor to this government who seeks a space of understanding with society. I know it's gonna be complicated, because with the Government of the People's Party social policies aren't easy, but life out there is also complicated. You came here – and to finish – to make a list of – that is indeed an electoral program – promises without anything else, promises, promotion of culture, and talks about acts in the City of Culture, as if Galicia had been reduced to the City of Culture. What about the rest of the country and cultural promotion in the rest of the country? What budget is it destined for the promotion of culture in Galicia, for its internationalization? What is that internationalization? What's that program? How will cultural consumption be promoted with a 21% IV?, that you contradict what they say, their advertising and propaganda...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u100	Please, Mrs. Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u101	... –the end, president – and the reality, which are the cuts and loosening our language and our culture. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u102	Thank you very much. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. Mr. Pombo Rodríguez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u103	Thank you again, President. Continuity and new impulse. That of continuity is clear; that of the new impulse, if it is downwards, for we will be within a short time reaching the center of the earth. Mr. Counsellor, I have listened carefully to him, and that of continuity I have clear it, but it is a continuity which, in the view of BNG, seriously prejudices the cultural, educational and linguistic interests of our country. In everything I've heard, I'm sorry not to see a ray of light in their whole story, I'm sorry not to see a ray of light of hope for our culture, education, university management and our language. I'm also sorry that I haven't heard any correction about the linguistic policy of denying Greek, which is our Union, which has been able to gain a great advance: that Greek is the only language, thanks to that multilingual decree, the Greek, the only language in all the state that loses speakers. That's the big success. And I'm really sorry. I am not surprised at the continuity, because we have just discussed an ILP which aims to improve the quality of public education and which aims to restore the rights of a teacher you claim to respect and defend, but which unfortunately voted against that ILP endorsed by 23,000 people who wanted – say – a change in non-university educational policy. You speak, Mr. Counsellor, of the defense of education, bet on teaching, but – I say – they vote against an ILP. Nothing of a new Law on Education, no of defending rights, restoring labor, social and professional rights to teachers, returning the stolen salary to improve that bank that already bountiful billions announces benefits. Nothing at all. Even nothing of a teacher's training plan from the public institution, to improve all that technology that will flood all the centers of this country, starting with rural, there will be many and many computers, but we will not even have a teacher to attend to those computers. Defence of public education. I don't see it, improvements in the quality of real education as to reducing ratios, sufficient supply, increased budgeting, plan to combat school failure with an own plan of the board of Galicia that covers the whole territory. I didn't hear anything. We are indeed in a time of propaganda on new technologies and multilingualism. From the teacher, nothing at all. What's the university model? You say here that you respect autonomy a lot, it doesn't count on me. On the 24th there is a strike from the Greek university system and the reasons are clear: Prime Minister Wert, of which you are great followers, the only thing you intend to do with your reform is to deteriorate a Greek public university that after 500 years perishes. The 3+2 decree leads to a serious increase in university education, expulsion of students, cut-off of funding and promotion of private university. More respect for autonomy, but in the funding plan are you willing to put the money that is needed so that the university student of families with limited resources can access it? Yes or no? Because the Wert model, we know what it's like to go to the university, to the rich and the people with little resources that's not enough. The sustainability of the Greek university system is at stake. You can tell me what you want here, that there are lower rates – in the first call of course, I don't deny it, but the second and third are not true –. There was a serious cut in university funding from 2009 until today, and so I ask you if you're willing to reach those budgets comparable to 2009. We're talking about 450 million euros gross. Are you willing, yes or no? You're telling me that there are bags from the board; I know there are, but the most important ones are those from the state, and this year there are more than 10,000 denied, 10,000 denied. Therefore, the theme of the scholarships is a more handicap that will have an impact on classes with few resources. Are you willing, as other autonomys do, to demand the transfer of the bags to adapt them to our country and so they can be distributed? That's the model we want to see ourselves. You're talking about LOMCE, which has a schedule for developing LOMCE, and – said counsellor – Galicia is going to do it. He just failed to say "amen." It is clear that LOMCE has a timetable, but it is clear that there are many communities that have resorted, because they understand that it is unconstitutional to invade autonomous educational competences. They made the communities of Euskadi and Catalonia; more than that, Galicia seems to be worth everything. How, of course, the model is that our language disappears, because they don't care. Basques and Catalans seem to have another model, there's another way to do things. With the available resources we are now announcing 6 million more for buildings, but many schools have been announced! I haven't been here long, but there's some school center I've been announcing in 2012, in 2013, in 2014 and I'm sure it's not for 2015. In this way we can announce thousands and thousands of new centers. In culture, I don't know how you think you're doing, with the resources available, keeping what's going on. You cut into culture by 59% and now it turns out that you're going to implement the job-generating industry. What do you have – I told you on one occasion – against culture? Because the budgets and policies of the Greek Government are consolidating the economic asphyxiation of our language, but also of our culture. Well, sometimes not, sometimes there are hundreds of thousands of euros up to give the music video of the billionaire Churches. How will all that you talk about in Agadic be implemented if more than 27 million euros have been reduced? It's very good here to announce, because, Counselor, you continue with the policies of the former, which mean and mean a impoverishment of cultural activity in Galicia, impoverishment of Greek cultural companies, workers and workers, and now you're selling me the opposite. We announce the draft cultural heritage law. We already know what his model is: giving up the Museum of the Romanization of Lugo, with permission acquired in the bipartite and now they've eliminated. They refuse to maintain maximum protection for the Eiros cave, archaeological and paleontological jewel of Galicia, and in the archaeological park of Campo Lameiro you are unable to guarantee the protection of the heritage. And now you announce to me the draft cultural heritage law, which, according to my data, is already the third time a counselor has announced it since this stage in the last six years. Announcements, advertisements, propaganda, and come to us now on the subject of language, and come and tell us that we don't get close. I already told you, when I declared in the statement of the beginning of the course, that I did not declare the language – I will declare the car, the floor and all that stuff –. Get close to the language, which is everyone's, is the greatest creation our country has. The IGE alerts the alarming loss of Welsh speakers in Galicia. In the population under the age of 15, 22% has declared it almost unknowable. We have part of our youth that doesn't dominate the Greek language, that doesn't dominate it. We've been changing Galicia's own language for over 500 years by another who came from outside and you're still in that dynamic – with quite a good deal on that topic. Does it seem to you, Counselor, that eliminating Greek in child education has no consequences? Removing the knowledge requirement from the Greek in order to access the public service does it seem to you that it has no consequences? Withdraw all the real support so that there are written means in English does it seem to you that there is no consequence?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u104	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u105	–I'm going to finish it. The blatant disillusionment and discrimination of our language in justice, in Sergas, in health, in new technologies, does it seem to you that it has no consequences? To refuse to teach classes in English, in scientific and technical matters, of course it has consequences. Unlawful dismissal of the professor of Celga courses has consequences. We, Counselor, believe that there really is a dramatic situation. This society also believed it on 8th and demanded urgent measures. We understand it's not an individual problem. Abandon the confrontation, Counselor, defend our language. Now we're being announced that they're going to make a plan to dynamize the Greek in the economy. Well done, man! I give you a clue: tell Mr. Albariño, take away the subsidies that have been given to the Greek, and tell him to call directly Mr. Albarito and fix the matter, that we will have more funds. [[Applause]] Accept, Counselor, please, the counsel's request...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u106	Finish it, please, Mr. Pombo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u107	... –Finished, President – of Culture, by the Royal Academy, by trade union organizations, by the mass media society of Galicia. They derogate the decree of plurilingualism, which annuls the Greek, opens a new path of hope – we have told it – with a general plan that has been unanimously adopted and that has more than four hundred measures that can be very useful for anyone to approach but for the Greek to have life in the future.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u108	Thank you very much. Parliamentary Group of Alternative Left Gallega. You have the word of Mr. Ramón Vázquez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u109	Well, good day to all of you again. Counsellor, you want to happen today that you will fulfill exactly your first month as advisor, in your office, therefore, after assuming this post on February 10th. In these first thirty days, you have no doubt completed an important schedule of public events to launch this new position. I don't know if he had time to take an analysis of the situation in his area of government and of which he must undoubtedly be his main challenges and challenges. I suppose – I suppose – you know the situation of our education system, our education. You must be well informed, and I am actually refusing to invest my time today in repeating a damage report to you, as we actually had the opportunity to listen clearly to the ILP's proposed group and how the rest of the groups did. But the truth is, you can't stop saying that our education system is bleeding. It's true, it's an internal hemorrhage. For the moment, the teaching material and the other staff of the educational services are holding up this hemorrhage, but we are about to reach a point without return in our education system, in terms of staff cuts, in terms of budget cuts in language policy, in terms of complementary services such as the school dining room, with regard to the dismantling of rural education, in the undisturbed and avocados to which the university system is being submitted and so a long and so forth. But, as I said, I haven't been planning on developing a scourge of injuries committed on our education system today. I think it'll be more beneficial for everyone if we're able to put it on the table today, which must be their main challenges in the coming months. If you allow me, and using a language of which you are very friends, I think it's important that you leave here today with the clear duties and full backpack, as it happens to many students in our schools and in our classrooms, of work proposals necessary and essential to the education system. His first task, from my point of view, is to end this submissive role, with the submissive role of this councillor, who has assumed every and every one of Mr. Wet's mandates, by applying registrable his policies and without the slightest questioning. He did so with the Wert Law, although today it seemed that there was a small disclaimer appealing to institutional loyalty in its compliance, but it does the raxabla; he did it with the university decree known as 3+2, which caused the student's mobilization; and he does it repeatedly. The truth is that the Greeks choose representatives to make decisions for themselves, to represent us, ultimately, not to be the transmission belt of the Government of the State. So I'd wait, I'd like you to be minimally brave and face Galicia in this matter which is so important. So it must defend an educational system with its own identity, adapted to the peculiarities of our country, which takes into account our evasiveness and potential, and that's its first obligation. The second task you have to do is to make public education in Greece a reference in the field of innovation and pedagogical renewal. Your duty, as head of the Education Council, is to promote, promote and even allow new learning systems, methodological changes, Counsellor, not always organizational changes. In the last forty years, pedagogical science has advanced something – imaginable –. Well, that advance has to be reflected in our classrooms. It can't be that the public education system is doomed to a residual role, always tow, and therefore it has to regain its role in front of the pedagogic vanguard. Public education has to be the pedagogic vanguard, it has to push work through projects, it has to favor methodological alternatives to the maxistral lesson, it has to promote new forms of grouping in the classroom, it must allow and favor new ways of distributing time in the classroom, it must allow and promote cooperative learning, it must promote teacher training in new learning systems, it must establish mixed daytime formulas and even flexible daytime. Finally, it must ensure that the German education system ceases to be constantly subject to organisational tensions, to merely organizational changes, and indeed to bring about those issues that allow the quality of education to be improved. The third task that the Counsellor has before him is to renew, without a doubt, the educational discourse of this council, as I said in the previous intervention, a pedagogic universe plagued with expressions such as competitiveness, such as productivity, excellence, talent, and this is the great disincentive of this Government. Education is either a tool for social change, or it's a tool for emancipation or it's not education, it's simple instruction, and you think you shouldn't aspire to be the public education advisor. The fourth task you have to do in education is to realize that the true indicator of the quality of an education system is your ability to meet diversity, diversity in an extensive sense: diversity of interests, motivations and abilities, linguistic diversity, a fundamental element in a community like Galicia. Sexual and emotional diversity, functional diversity, and therefore being able to respond to all personal, individual, social and collective nuances that have our student present in our classes. Your educational model, the current educational model, is a model that standardizes the individual, it sets everything to a mold in the form of revalid or proof that it measures and reduces the boys and girls to a simple number, to a simple exam. The psychology of learning shows that the measurement of intellectual performance cannot be reduced by passing a simple external test. Fifth task, Counselor. It must have a clear and coherent, clear and coherent university policy. His non-compliance with the University Financing Plan, his failed reform of the title map, the changes prompted by decree 3+2 above, is generating not only doubts in the university community, but the collapse of the Galician university system, as recently reported by management and service personnel. Sixth task, Counselor. You have to understand that if the school, the physical building of the school, is the body of the educational fact, the words, the language, the language is your soul. Without Greek and with its decree of plurilingualism, the teaching of rosy is left with no soul, no identity, and therefore is an empty educational system. Eighth-thousand, eighth-and-last-thousand, Counselor. You must definitely advocate for a decentralized cultural model that reaches all sectors of the country's culture. It's not just a matter of resources. By the way, you always forget that your Government has reduced cultural budgets by 60% in just five years; that is indeed a record in budgetary policy. But it's not just a matter of resources. You have a cultural model based purely on a centralized model. A clear example: the City of Culture and the Town of Compostela Consortium absorb 20 percent of the country's entire cultural budget.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u110	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u111	–It's over, president. And in the meantime, what happens to the audiovisual sector? What about the publishing and book sector? What about cultural circuits? What about our artistic and cultural heritage? Well, that's the reality, Counselor. So these are your main duties, take them with interest, apply yourself, whether you're an applied student, have your own profile and you'll count on our help. If you don't, you'll be a mere shadow of the former advisor, just as gray and as dark for our education system. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u112	Thank you very much. Socialist Parliamentary Group. Mr. Docasar Docasar has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u113	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning, almost late. I would like to begin by welcoming Mr. Rodríguez to this first debate as the head of the Council of Culture, Education and Universitary ordination. And I also know perfectly well that you're not a rookie in these talks, because until a few days ago you were the spokesperson for the People's Group on these same issues and therefore the head of Parliamentary leadership for the educational policies that the People's Party has developed in Galicia in recent years under the presidency of Mr Feijóo. Mr. Rodríguez, you appear in this Parliament a month after your arrival in office and I want to tell you that the Socialist Group seems totally timely and absolutely necessary. And yes, you spoke of continuity, I expected no less, I expected that, and I was very clear, after hearing it, Mr. Rodríguez, that we are not faced with a change of education policy and cultural policy in our country, but simply with a change of face to make the same policies that have been made so far. I am also clear, Mr. Rodríguez, after listening to him, that he will follow that silent revolution of which he so much likes to speak to you. By the way, changes of faces that Mr. Feijóo has been performing at the Council of Government of the Union not for the sake of Greek citizenship, but for the interests of the People's Party, thus placing in the service of the People's Party the institutions that should be of the Greeks and the Greeks. You look like you in this House, Mr. Rodríguez, after we've heard for months as important leaders of your party, both here and in Madrid, don't stop telling us, one day yes and another, that economic recovery is there. And if that's the case, Mr. Rodríguez, you will understand perfectly well that the Socialist Group wants to know whether this recovery will also reach the whole of the education community in Galicia, and much more now that we have a new advisor in front of us. I don't know if you have room for manoeuvre to make different decisions. What I do know is that the educational community is demanding, and that their credibility, Mr. Rodríguez, as advisor, depends to a large extent on whether or not they can attend to them. And I also know, because I've shared a lot of discussions with you over the past two years, which you think we're experiencing a silent revolution in Welsh education, but I'm going to try to show you today, with data, that, more than a silent revolution, there's a noisy involution. You need to know better than anyone else – and you want to recognize it – that in 2009 investment in per capita education in Galicia was EUR 860, while in 2015 that investment dropped to 670, and that – is said – has led to important consequences for the Greek education system. 220 million euros less for childhood education, primary, secondary, Bachelor's degree and FP, and I don't know how you're going to recover this, I haven't heard you say anything in this sense. 70 million euros less for our universities. And I'm glad to hear in your speech that you're actually telling us that you're going to compromise with the directors of the Greek universities the reform of degrees; I think it's good that if you do that, you don't follow Minister Wert. And I also feel good, I think you've pointed out that there's going to be a new funding system 2016-2020, and I hope there too, in that sense, that it's a just system to recover the lost in the three Greek universities. Fewer teachers at schools, schools and universities, and now you come to them with 432 places that do not, of course, recover the lost one. Copages in textbooks and school lunches. By the way, Mr. Rodríguez, check out when they don't charge the dining rooms, I think it's exactly four months ago; I think it's time for you to take note and from tomorrow's instructions to cover these school lunchers. Real impossibility of addressing the arrangements that educational buildings need because of a lack of proper maintenance. Yes, that's what you always tell me about brick politics. And I'm glad to hear today that there's going to be 6 million euros for brick. Well, welcome are those 6 million euros, but I think, like years ago, it's going to be hard for that amount to be able to do the works that need our centers. Less money for operating and teaching equipment. I didn't hear him say anything about whether schools and institutes would recover the lost operating expenses; I didn't hear him, but I don't think he did. And didactic equipment. You also talked about making an effort there, and I was left with a data on vocational training. Mr. Rodríguez, do you know how long we haven't been in vocational training to recover and adapt new teaching equipment? Check out, ask your advisors at the office, and you'll see that for many years no equipment has been renewed, and that's not so easy, because teaching equipment from professional families is expensive, they're difficult to perform; therefore, you have a serious problem here. Worse working and professional conditions for teaching professionals, and I didn't hear you say anything about whether you're going to do something different here. Thousands of well-prepared Thursdays forced to emigrate for lack of expectations. Mr. Rodríguez, are you going to do something to recover the lost talent? Six years of harassment to our culture and our language. By the way, in that sense you spoke on the cultural issue of a new Cultural Heritage Act, which was actually also said in the Education Commission a few weeks ago. I want you to tell me today too, if you do the favor, if you're expected that, in that context, the winter road to the Sacred River, and also to Lalin, will finally be recognized as a Jacobean route, because we were told in December 2014 that this would be once the Cultural Heritage Act arrived in Parliament. If that's the case, I hope you'll tell me today, at the parliamentary headquarters. By the way, on the subject of culture too, Mr. Rodríguez, what do you think of the spending of 300,000 euros on the video clip by Enrique Iglesias to take pictures and dance in Galicia, when our cultural fabric is absorbed in the most absolute abandonment? I sincerely believe that there are other ways of financing our culture, and there are enough people here that could do it very much better and that we would have to give him that money. EUR 275 million less for scholarships. I know it's a central government issue, but my question is, will you try, Mr. Rodríguez, to do something about this topic here in Galicia? And with what specific quantities? 44 million euros less in Erasmus scholarships, yes, those scholarships that were so important to create jobs. Too many conflicts in the courts and too many strikes convened by the different members of the educational community of Galicia, the latter, that of the University. And I hope and hope that you will follow the criteria of the Rectors of the CRUE Conference. Finally, Mr. Rodríguez, six years old, to our humble understanding, not of silent revolution, but of six years of consecutive attacks on public education, culture and the language of Galicia, which must begin to change if the recovery really has reached our economy. Having said this, Mr. Rodríguez, I would also like to remind you that in the last debate of the state of Autonomy you and Mr. Feijóo have drawn attention to the results of the education in Greece since the magical year 9, you – and today you have done the same thing again in parliamentary office – of the evolution, of the PISA reports, of their results, of the successes of multilingual education, of the program contracts, of the increase of enrolments in the FP, of the low university rates at the universities in Greece, of the kindnesses of the dual FP and of the basic FP. By the way, in the basic FP, when will the centres receive the first euro after six months of deployment, Mr. Rodríguez? Six months and a day today not a single euro has arrived at the centres to implement the basic FP in Galicia. From the dual FP we have talked a lot about in this Parliament, mainly in the Education Commission. You know what I think of that subject, I've said it many times. I sincerely believe that you are importing a system that is not ours, that is the German system, and that here we don't have the productive tissue that they have in Germany; so we'll have difficulty making it exactly the same. Mr. Rodríguez, you have, however, given much less importance to a matter than to us, which is the subject of equity. For us the fairness of the education system is a matter of great importance – we have heard it many times – too. I also want to tell you today, Mr. Rodríguez, that the humble achievements achieved in recent years in the Greek education system have been possible thanks to the professor...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u114	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u115	...and I haven't heard him say anything in that way today. The Socialist Group therefore understands that it has talked a lot about results and very little about putting them in danger of the equity of the education system itself. So, I hope, Mr. Rodríguez, that from here on you start to change that policy and end the doctrinal austericy that they have been applying in Galicia for the past six years. I will leave some further arguments – I have only twenty-nine seconds left – for the second part of this debate. I'll try to put on some homework, some homework. I sincerely hope that you in that replica turn will answer some of the questions we have asked you. In any case, you – I don't care to say it at parliamentary headquarters too – are a sensible person, and I hope that wisdom brings you to Welsh education, but with facts; I don't just want you to be sensible and then you don't notice it in the Welsh education system. I insist: I leave for the replica shift – which I still have five minutes – to put some tasks to you that I hope you take care of carefully; let's see if that's the case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u116	Thank you very much, Mr. Docasar. The People's Group has the floor Mr. Farinas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u117	Thank you very much, Madam President. It compares today, Mr. Rodríguez González, as Councillor for Culture, Education and Universitary Order to expose the general lines of government policy with regard to these three subjects, and do so to submit to the criteria of the parliamentary groups those strategic lines, with a dose – as you well explained – of continuity of the work of a magnificent Education Adviser that we have so far, responsible for all those data that today can presume of the Welsh education system, and with another boost dose that corresponds to the new management of the new board you are leading. Under our prism, we attend an exhibition based on the realism of the times we live in, the commitment and responsibility of a ruler to his people and also with a clear objective, which is to maximize – to the maximum – the resources that one has to manage efficiently, of all human, material and economic means, and also the effectiveness of the measures that are expected of a good ruler. But today, Counselor, we again hear the same whispers from the opposition. You don't care what you say, what you're thinking here, they were bringing the learned litany, and that's what they recited here today in their intervention. They missed a good opportunity during their intervention to take paper and pen it and take notes, like good students. Today we are faced with an intervention with concrete proposals, a correct diagnosis of needs, commitments, and, in addition, accompanied by something that always calls for opposition, which are budget splits, without triumphalism and knowing that everything that remains to be done before us is a lot. [[Murmurs.]] But I also have to say that today he spoke of culture, he spoke of Agadic – Mr. Pombo, by the way, he was wrong, if he comes up with the budgets of Agadic, 4.6% – and his fundamental role in the drive of the Greek and Greek cultural industries, and in support of artistic literary creation. We have also talked about the City of Culture and the success of Womex, the support for museums, the reference centers of the performing and audiovisual arts and a new strategic planning in the cultural field. The impetus to youth and child cultural consumption was announced through concrete measures, of cultural policies aimed at strengthening the role of public libraries in guaranteeing access to culture for all Greeks and Greeks, in agreement with the editorial sector to form a Greek book market and in English. We want to say that it was your response today, from a global project, from a well-defined project by the Galician People's Party, which works thanks to the unequivocal capacity and the delivery of the sector to the Council team and the optimization of resources. But you also talked about education, deeply. Yesterday Mr Docasar – who here congratulated some of the measures – anticipated twelve; we will see how many are next day, we will see whether the number increases or decreases. But in any case, Counselor, I also made an offer here to see what manoeuvring ability you had to interpret in the politics council. So we'll see what manoeuvring ability they have to accept the kindness of the measures taken today from the Education Council to applaud and support them, because they hardly ever support any of the measures presented by the People's Party. Here's about ICT, it's been mentioned that with Amtega they're going to equip 100 percent of the public schools -- fifth and sixth primary and all the courses, the four secondary courses -- to join the technology of the 21st century. We have also talked about the Equipment Plan and improvement of education centres and the provision of the latest technologies for vocational training. Mr. Free Transport Advisor spoke. He spoke of school dining; he spoke of school dining rooms that, as much as they keep saying to you, nothing has to do with that unfair system that you had, which made the son of a milleurist worker not have access to the dining room and gave him free food to one who had earned a million euros had lived two miles from school, more than two kilometers from school. If that's your idea of justice, equality of opportunity and equity, we're not about work. And for a lot of fossil discourse, old and outdated, which continues to be used here in exposing its arguments, it's not easy for you to convince the population, not even the more than 93,000 free users of public transport. It's not easy for you to convince 70% of families who receive help for books, nor 80% who have free access to school lunches, nor that 6% who only pays 1 euro, nor their parents or their parents or legal guardians. They have a rather complicated task ahead. It's not even easy to convince the 30,300 teachers in our system or about 300,000 pupils and students of the mandatory teachings that what they are doing is not true, that the services they are receiving are not really receiving them. And rural counts a lot, ladies and gentlemen, rurals are also prone to technology in the 21st century, and we are not the ones who closed units of the CRA, of the grouped rural schools, when they had a enrolment of less than nine students. And he spoke of the school library staffing plan, the LIA Plan, its renewal; the Plambe, which perfectly resists a comparison between what was the Plambe that you invented and that in your years of government had 3,700,000 euros of staffing and in the Feijó government 5,400,000. That's to commit to a quality, universal and free system; that's the real commitment. But, ladies and gentlemen, with the results of early school dropout, of absenteeism, such as failure or classification in mathematics, reading understanding or written expression, or language knowledge, in reports published by officials, national and international, the truth is that you are quite badly stopped. That's why the work that, yes, is recognized by the former advisor and his work team that he had to do with this data. Someone wants to go back to the old system. It would be nice if they said which, if what they were fed to the rich and also provided scholarships to travel abroad to those who had the highest incomes, not to the Pears, they sent them to Castile La Mancha, which is much more progressive than the Pearls, we prefer them to go to the Pearls. It was also said here, Mr. Docasar, that there was a model. I hope it's not the ILP that you supported today, the IGC and the BNG; they can actually opt for it, but I hope it's not that. I hope, if that's the case, that you explain that you have to see a sovereignist nationalism with federalism; it's a good explanation and above all a good burden of depth for your voters as well. You say you lost 2,200 teachers. It's not true. Mr. Pombo says more than 3,000. You have to do your business again, and watch out for the divisions. You know in parliamentary responses that gave you the reasons for paid retirements, the lowest number of casualties, and a solidarity and self-sufficient work of the teaching staff who took over 90,000 hours more than were injected into the education system. That's the reality. You can't talk about bags, ladies.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u118	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u119	It is the best policy – finished, Madam President – that can be done with the times and the economic resources that we have to manage, but the highest in the state. They were talking here about university scholarships, 1,413 million euros, 250 million euros more than the last provision in scholarships by the previous government of the state. And the highest number of pockets, 250, Mr. Docasar; and the highest number of pockets in history, 317,000, for more data, 20% of students. Counsellor, we have seen a clear strategy of enhancing the Council's action with realistic, practical and possible policies. They are measures that deepen in the uniqueities of Galicia and the Greeks, as well as in the drive of their own initiatives. Mr. Rodríguez, have the unconditional support of this parliamentary group to continue to advance in the educational processes of our childhood and youth...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u120	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u121	...and so that our own culture and language will continue to gain spaces of qualitative quality and quantitative quality. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u122	Thank you very much. Replica from the Councillor for Culture, Education and Universitary Order.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u123	Thank you very much, Madam President. I started my intervention, Mrs. Martínez, speaking of continuity, and I didn't use it as a rhetorical resource; I used it from the conviction that for the first time in the history of Autonomy in education, as in other matters, there was a decreasing budget to be managed; and Mr. Vázquez, along with the rest of the Councillors of Galicia and President Feijó to the head, gave a master class of how to manage public resources in times of crisis. I think this could have been learned in these years, because managing growing budgets at a time of economic problems is relatively easy, but not only to be able to maintain the main public services, not only to maintain the main educational indicators in this country at a time of budget decline, it deserves a very good note. And that is what the honourable Member has, right now, Mr Vázquez, and he will surely continue to make very good notes on future tasks. [[Applause]] And, look, you talk about resources, you talk about just quantitative issues. I'd put on the table that brought results. What has served the public resources that have been implemented in recent years? And there's a lot of variables, a lot of variables in which, if you compare when you started ruling in 2009 and when you compare to today, data is very positive, in many areas. And I'm going to expose just one, one: school failure. In 2009, school failure in this country was more than 26%; today, with much less resources but with successful policies, is at its lowest point in history. And there's nothing more socially anti-equity than 1 out of every 4 children, that is, more than 25% of our country's children and children, left the street without any kind of titration; that's the most anti-equity, socially the most unjust that exists. And that has succeeded in correcting and is being corrected by the policies that we have promoted and that have moved by the People's Party. [[Applause]] And look, there's a question that frankly I think time puts each of us in its place. This is Mr. Fraga. I remember – although it was new then, just like many of us here – when Mr. Fraga was a little less – well, no, he was literally compared to Atila – the Atila of culture, the Atila of language, the Atila of education. And today, ladies and gentlemen, you claim the role of Fraga in Autonomy; welcome, thank you very much. [[Applause]] Mr. Pombo, there's no worse blind than he doesn't want to see, and you say he doesn't see the light, he doesn't see anything. Look, where you don't see anything, the Greeks and the Greeks are going to see a new Heritage Act, they're going to see the expansion of several educational centers in the country in areas that need it -- metropolitan areas, where there's a higher population concentration -- they're going to see how the vocational training centres are going to receive modern equipment adapted to today's needs, and they're going to see a question that's very equitable from the territorial and social point: they're going to see how 100 percent of the classes of the Greek public system -- fifth and sixth and all secondary -- they're going to become absolutely digital classes, breaking the digital divide. That's what the Greeks are going to see, let's see it all, and let's hope we, and you too, of course, see it, and see it this year, because, Your Honor, you will certainly see it this year. And neither did you come up with questions that were said here and that you said, that really seemed a lie that you didn't see them. Because you've talked about an increase in school failure, when it's just the other way around. He said that university education is very expensive, when it's just backwards; we have Spain's most equitable system, cheaper rates and complementary scholarships; and he said that the university funding system was a disaster. I remind you that the German Autonomous Community was the second lowest drop in university budgets. And those questions are above the table. That's why I'm telling you, Mr. Pombo, that there's nothing worse blind than what you don't want to see. And as for Mr. Vázquez and Mr. Docasar, Mr. Vázquez put me on duty, put me on eight extra-school tasks, and Mr. Docasar put me on a sweet yesterday, and surely in the second intervention he told me those sweets that I had already been able to read in the teletypes. I'll put only one on it, too. Look, the latest published data from the Ministry of Education has just been published. There's a document, an interesting report, which is the figures of education in Spain. And I recommend it as a task to study it and read it, frankly, because, if they read it, questions they said here wouldn't say. You've talked about laminating, that the public educational state bleeds, dismantles, cuts. Well, really they're more and more cut in arguments and with this data they're much more cut in arguments. I'll tell you some of these data. For example, public spending per student in the education system: Galicia provides 6,527 euros, the average of Spain is 5,431; that is, we are the fourth autonomous community most dedicated. And you are committed to some governments: Catalonia, which is a rich autonomous community, because less than 1,300 euros compared to Galicia. You took care of yourself. They were talking about population scholarships, students receiving scholarships. Well look, Galicia in primary is the second autonomous community that most scholarships dedicate to primary, far above the Spanish average, far above, just below Asturias. And you were talking about transportation. Galicia is the autonomous community that spends most of its resources transport, the first, with a huge difference. And also the dining rooms; there we are secondly, tied up with Cantabria. Privatization. Public education in Greece accounts for 72% of pupils in school; in Spain, 68%. This is an easy, simple task, that I would pray both Mr. Vázquez and Mr. Docasar, as an extra-school task for the next appearance, that they study this data in order to compare it. Obviously, I appreciate the duties, I appreciate them, if they're productive; now, if they're repetitive, for they really don't bring us much value. And Mr. Vázquez told us that education should serve for social change, and there we agree: education, of each of us, of each person, must undergo an individual social change in each person; if we do not, we enter a kind of social determinism that you mention many times here, where the son of the rich, as a son of the rich, is good student, and the son of the poor is not good student; and they do some starting discrimination that really does not fit his speech. There is no social determinism, there is the individual, the motivation, the interest, the individual's effort to improve, in each of his or her contours and in every of his or her circumstances, and not that social determinism of social methodology that you pose. And our system is designed so that all children, regardless of where they are born and who their parents are, can study on equal opportunities and have all the same opportunities. That's our model of education, and that's what we're working on. [[Applause]] And look, Mr. Docasar, you always talk about 2009, you always talk about it; it makes little sense to talk about 2009, because I could tell you that you could review the school failure data of 2009, or you could tell you how the vocational training squares evolved in 2009, or you could tell you how the university fees evolved in 2009 above the IPC, or how many students in the public system had new technologies in the classroom or had an English language learning. How many were there in 2009? How many were there in 2009? And if you want, I thank you, as I said in the 2009 report, but you should be more cautious in your comparisons, because fairness, ladies and gentlemen, fairness is not literature. Equality is made and statistics are also, Mr. Losada. Statistics, so look at a statistic: school failure, a statistic. [[Murmurs.]] Another statistic: how to access public services, for us depending on family income, for you all the same. Statistics: evolution of university rates, in Galicia the lowest in Spain, the most equitable in Spain, with the cheapest access to university education. Or I could also talk to you -- you know, another statistic -- about a professor of diversity care, so that those students most in need have individualized attention, 10 percent of the professor is PT, AL and others, since, by the way, there's no resistance to comparison with the year 2009. And, of course, I told you about public spending: 6.527, as compared to an average Spanish of 5,431. We believe in equal opportunities, and it's something that is demonstrated every day by the facts and policies put in place. Language question, which was spoken here, was spoken by all spokesmen. Look, I wanted to refresh you with some data that we saw, I think it was yesterday or before yesterday in the media. What did a survey tell us about this country's media? They were telling us that more than half of the Greeks and the Greeks wanted and were in line with the current teaching system about language distribution and language use in class. That's a statistical data; they criticize us if they want it, but it's a statistical data. That is, more than 50% of the population was in agreement, he liked, they accepted the current system of distribution of hours between languages. That's a statistical data. There were also those who wanted more in English and there were those who wanted more hours in Spanish. But the reality is that we're talking about how the vast majority of the population, the inhabitants of Galicia, feels good about the current organizational system about languages in class. And look – I've said it on several occasions – you have to boost – and that's our responsibility – the use of language in all social order. And I want to share an idea expressed because in an article of opinion, also very recent, published in a newspaper – which perhaps does not like that newspaper either – by a prestigious linguist, who is the secretary of the Royal Galaga Academy, Mr. Henrique Monteagudo. What did Mr. Henrique Monteagudo say? He said that the future of Greek was a challenge – and I will read it literally – "a challenge rather social and cultural than political and legal. It is played both in companies and businesses, in professional groups, in the media, in the fields of leisure, as well as in institutions or schools." This idea is really an idea that we share, and that's why we're putting in place measures that will boost the use of Greek in different contours. I've told you before. In the short term, we have the language dynamisation plan in the economic fabric 2015-2020, and what did this plan tell us? What strategic measures are those strategic ones asking us about this plan? They raise questions related to, for example, labelling, actions directed at self-employed people, taking advantage also of the ties of the Lusophony, and also of actions that are focused on banking and large companies. Because we have to convince you, ladies and gentlemen, we have to convince this country's economic and business fabric to make more use of Greek, and we have to do so with incentive measures, with measures of conviction, not with coercive measures. coercive measures, not; now, incentives and convincing measures, yes. And that's why we're going to campaign, we're going to meet, we're going to do measures that boost the prestige of our language among the entrepreneurs, because there too, ladies and gentlemen, we're playing part of our future. And you see, you see – partly, here they quoted – that it's not easy, it's not an easy task. First, we have to convince ourselves. And look, as a reflection, if every day the politicians represented here are making the language, the Greek, a problem, how are we going to be able to transmit to society, how are we going to be able to tell people that Greek is an opportunity? How are we going to do it if you are every day creating an artificial problem in the whole of Galician society? How can we tell the Greeks and the Greeks that the use of Greek is an opportunity for everyone? I ask them – as I have already told them – to think about it and to try to lay bridges of understanding in this matter, because, really, if you follow that line of total confrontation, because we will hardly be, we will have many difficulties, many more difficulties to convince the society that they use and speak Greek. Well, secondly, and in this matter and in the medium term, I also announce to you, gentlemen, that we are going to work on a plan to empower the use of the Greek language on Thursdays and in the newer population. And this plan will have and will have an integral character, a transversal character, which will not only focus on teaching; it must focus on all those orders where Thursdays make their lives: on new technologies, on sport, on training, and leaving that idea – by the way, little correct – that one speaks less Greek because of the decree of the Greek. The decree of the Greek and the IGE data you use for what they are interested in should also be used for what they are not interested in. And this IGE data tells us that never so much population in Galicia speaks to you properly in English and writes correctly in Greek. This is the target data. Another different thing – that we share – is the use, and that's where we're going to work, and that's where we ask you to work with us, because we think you'd be doing a great favor to Greek and our language. A question I would also like to mention has to do with the role that culture or education can play as an incentive to economic entrepreneurship in Galicia. We want to strengthen the entrepreneurship actions. And there are already open materials and lines of work that we want to enhance, and we want to empower, we want to give a new boost to the program that has the City of Culture dedicated to promoting entrepreneurship. You'll know that in the City of Culture there's an Entrepreneurship Center, where there's a business farm, there's a technological business farm, and there's a cultural business farm. In this centre of entrepreneurs, where there is a significant, very significant number of enterprises, self-employed, limited societies, etc., that are working, advising them, training, tutoring, and we want to take advantage of the potential of this Centre of Entrepreneurship to stimulate entrepreneurial culture and to stimulate the creation of the cultural industry in the country. And in non-university education we also want to deepen and continue to work on issues already under way. Since 2010 there has been an enterprise plan; 60,000 students, 3,250 teachers have participated in this business plan. There are a total of 17 business farmers, of which there are now 30, more than 30 companies in their facilities working and some already creating and hiring jobs. There is a Greek network of business farmers in educational centers, which, of course, we want to strengthen, and we're going to strengthen. And also a measure that I announce: those business farmers related to educational centers and their educational activities. We will do this through protocols with companies and institutions, and we will extend the livestock network to all integrated vocational training centres, also to those IES in which it can be implemented to give a comarcal approach to the educational centres of the country as a whole. And also, in the university field, we want to study with universities the possibilities of promoting employability and entrepreneurship among Italian university graduates. I'm done, Madam President, considering what I said at the beginning: continuity, new momentum, results. That is a balance we have on the table, from which we can assume, from which my fellow Member Mr Vázquez can presume, and certainly many things have been done, many more could have been done, but if we consider the economic moment, if we consider the budgetary situations in which we have developed ourselves, I believe that what has been done keeps a clear country project and has kept very positive results that ultimately yield and are redundant on Thursdays of this country and are going to yield in the future of Galicia. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u124	Thank you very much. Special round of clarifications. Joint Group. Mrs. Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u125	Thank you, President. Counselor, sadly – you say – we continue; that is, we keep on walking towards disaster in our community. Towards disaster, because you can sell all the triumphalism you want, but society, demonstrations, communications, protests and social discontent that exist both in the culture sector and in the education sector already cry out for it everywhere, there's no way that they cover it up with their propaganda. You say they manage better with less budget. Well, that's a coat of hair, of course, because you can say that you manage budgeting well, but that does it better with less; that's impossible, and of course, what proves is that you're making it worse. But the decision, in addition to being less, is also a decision made by the People's Party, because you refuse to apply any policy that is supposed to increase income, via tax collection, of great fortunes, for example; so you refuse to increase the possibility of improving budgets. You're also talking about keeping public services with less. Lies. They keep part of public services because a large part of them have already been privatized. In addition, quality in public services is lost, not only in the number of public services we have, but in the quality it lends to them; and in addition, it is a quality which is lowered to degrade the prestige of public services in our country. There are no vocational training places for our boys and girls. How do you say we have a number of untrained youth when there are no squares? At least in Pontevedra province there were hundreds of boys and girls unable to take vocational training. It's true what he says about Fraga, but he's already saying it, isn't it?He'll come behind who's good to me. We thought Fraga was the oldest person we could meet, and we found that the descendants of Fraga are worse, much more Spanishist and much more belligerent against language and our culture. Massification in classes, another great achievement of his government. Professor who imparts foreign specialties as already reported here. Just like when I was a girl. When I was a girl, I had an English teacher who was French and then we were told, and we said, "How do you pronounce yourself?" As it is in the book: the table is blue. And that's how we learned English, thanks to that great professionalism and that great care there was. But it is also worth highlighting the lack of support for students with special needs – and I personally, in addition, am living in my family – a real struggle with the Council to get support for a 6-year-old with difficulties. Not to mention school dining. You're alarming about spending on school luncheons. And I say to him, be ashamed of the hunger in our country. That's what I had to be ashamed of. Fellowships, increase the number. Tell me about the amount, more poverty scholarships. Same as a job, too. He creates a job, but it's a pity. Three jobs together don't make one. That's his great achievement. We all have the same opportunities, of course, except that scholarships don't reach all and all, except that rural people have to look for their lives to be able to move, because displacements have to be paid the most. So not everyone has the same opportunities. And obviously the unemployed and the unemployed, the children and the children of the unemployed and the unemployed do not have the same opportunities.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u126	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u127	Also – I ended – ICT edge, how many were there yesterday and how many were there today. Counsellor, the children are still unable to access all ICTs. The lowest university rates in the state, in line with the lowest wages in the state. And, as far as language is concerned, an inquiry that seems to be in charge of the People's Party. If society agrees, or you say that you agree with multilingualism at 50%, there's another 50% by course not. And the government's responsibility is to apply policies that defend the country's interests, not to give what is demanded without more, because then we'd all be full of TV 5, eh!, Gran Hermano and all that bazophy that throw us on TV. The responsibility of governments is to bet on culture and not bet on stupidity. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u128	Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. Mr. Pombo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u129	Thank you, Counselor. The theme of light was rhetoric, I refer to hope, and the play of words sometimes confuses. So they're going to make a center, a new IES in Culleredo, right? they've been announced I don't know how many years, and Culleredo's hope was that this year would work. But this is where the light appeared, some light cables that the Council didn't know they were buried, there's no IES center. Those neighbors wanted an IES center there, but because of the light they won't have it. Then don't play words games. Cuts in teaching, that's the reality, more than 30% of the budget, which meant cuts in many rights. Ah! but it turns out that there are 12 million euros illegally granted, wrongly, to centres that to implement a co-educational teaching, which is the way to do it, it turns out that there are 12 million that you haven't recovered yet. When will they get you back? You're talking about results. We're talking about results. The teacher's situation. You have to take the extra pay off the teachers, you have to reduce their salary because you have to clean the bank. The bank's clean. Last year, only a part of what's in Galicia, 1,157 million euros of benefit, more than anything paid to all the teachers of public education in this country. Benefits of only one year. Green shoots all over the place. When are you going to pay the salary back, Counselor? When? Results. Let's talk about practical things. LOMCE. Man, I don't have the Catalans or the Basques smarter than us, but no more clumsy, either. And in front of the LOMCE they raised a resource of unconstitutionality to defend their own rights as regards their language and education. By the way, they have reached agreements and maintain the appeal to the Constitutional. When are you going to do that to defend the Greeks? University. And tell us Mr. Farinas that we don't take note and that we sing raspberries that we learn from before. We take note. The University of Wales is not the worst of all, but we invest 0.8% of GDP, 0.8%; and 1.2%, which is the Spanish average, is something else; that is, much less than the average and less than the Basque, and much less, of course, than the European. When are we going to get closer to this? When we're going to invest, I'm not saying less, but what was investing the bipartite in 2009? If the scholarships go so well, Mr. Fariñas, I don't know why there's a complaint of 10,000, 10,000, denied from the Ministry, 10,000. Of course, but we have to be in colleges and talk, because we have meetings and we're out here too. 10,000 denied. Well, the model could be another. Pay taxes, the one that tells you that books can't be paid, Mr. Indidex, and then that university... in Germany there are no scholarships, but it's much cheaper than here, because it's paid with taxes, than you can afford. Let's go to that model. Language. Who attacks the language? Not the BNG Greeks, eh! We don't attack him or confront him. Let's see what happens. I was at the University of Coruña yesterday. The great dynamization of the university language, 60,000 euros. All right, it's a big effort. The Basques, 5 million euros. I don't know if the Basques went crazy. How much is English used at the University of Galicia? It's not up to 20%. In the bathtub, 50%, and in the catala, it's over 70%. Ah! but here's trouble because, if you do the theses in English and the jobs, it turns out that maybe they don't score.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u130	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u131	So we broke a little head in this too. Mr. Flours, Agadic went up, of course, from 16.4 million to 17, went up 4% last year to this, but when it was that bad bipartite it turned out that there were 44 million, 44. So numbers have to do them that way. I'd also like it if you tell us who attacks her, because by speaking and using her I understand that we don't attack her. So, all of you come and use it, all of you approach, because it's everyone's language, and we defend it. When are you going to re-admit, Counselor, those illegally expelled from Celga? When will a decree of plurilingualism be withdrawn from the Royal Academy, the Council of Culture and society in full? When are you gonna do it? Because that's what creates a problem; then, let's all join together: the Royal Academy, the Council of Culture, the protesters – thousands who flooded Compostela –...,
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u132	Finish it, Mr. Pombo, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u133	...and let's do something for the sake of our teaching. By the way, it seems very good to me to put the theme of dynamizing Welsh in youth. They start with the Galician Television, offering quality programs for the Greeks, so make an agreement with the RTP, which can be heard here and the Galician that can be heard in Portugal...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u134	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u135	...and offer you the second language of Portuguese...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u136	Thank you, Mr. Pombo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u137	...in all Galician teaching, what a shame it makes us.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u138	Alternative Left-Galga. Mr. Vázquez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u139	Well, the truth is that at this point in the day, Mr Vázquez, the other Mr Vázquez, the new advisor Rodríguez, this is a game of nicknames that leads a little to confusion. And the truth is, I have listened carefully to Mr Fariñas and he cannot be denied skill and talent since then in the technique of praise, can he not? The truth is it's not easy in a single sentence, well, to release such a bunch of pyrops to two advisors, the inbound but the outgoing, in ten words. That, of course, is worthy of consideration. Allow me, humbly and with all due respect, to tell you that you had an intervention at least a bit embalming, right? That's what happens to me about it. [[Murmurs.]] In addition, you have invited the opposition groups to applaud, to applaud the counselor, and the fact is that you have done so enough, besides abundantly, to matters that are about to see their outcome. Wait till you applaud him for his work, don't go ahead. And then you started the worst part of the intervention, in case this wasn't a little bit, which was to start talking about libraries and school libraries, which has a lot of crime you've done about public libraries in Galicia, starting with the library canon, starting with the abolition of aid to libraries in the municipalities of more than 50,000 inhabitants, following the decrease of 30% of resources, the school library improvement plan and we could follow. You have it, but you kept talking and praising the plans presented by the counsellor. The reality is that the issues he referred to, most of the issues he referred to, counselor, are plans that already existed, that already exist, nothing new. Then I guess the subject of continuity will come up. Because the LIA Plan has existed since 2011, no one thinks it's a novelty. And on the other hand, we have to say a question that is obvious: to present plans, programmes, measures, to announce changes doesn't mean that this is going to be translated into facts, and the fact is that in that question the Greek Government has very bad precedents. On the other hand, to ignore intervention on qualitative data, on the number of computers, on the number of centres Abalar, on the number of multilingual centres, has shown, in the case of the policy of the Education Council, that does not correspond to an improvement in the quality of education. So, well, education advisor and also, following the line of continuity, counsellor of propaganda. There's one question I want to explain: every time you talk about school failure, I'm going to see myself forced to explain it again; I know it's repetitive, but it's important: if you insist, I'll force myself to insist. School failure has decreased, Counsellor, because the labour market, given the situation, has ceased to have an important effect for young people over the age of 16 who, in many cases, accumulated years of repetition and, when they reached a certain age, abandoned the education system to join a labour market that offered wages and facilities, which has now disappeared. That's the reason for the drop in percentage, light, school failure, not because of you or your merits, of course – it takes only one month. As far as language dynamization is concerned, to announce a plan for linguistic dynamisation in the economic sector, it also has it, the truth, because, after the linguistic policy that is leading in education, now to announce a language plan in the economic field, when what you have to do is to regain consensus in the educational field and to repeal the decree of multilingualism, which has shown – yes – absolutely negative consequences, is so.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u140	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u141	He talked about statistics data – and it's over, really. Of course, you use the data from the MEC statistics you're interested in, because the data from the MEC statistics say that in 10 years in Galicia nearly a thousand school units, a thousand classes, thousands of teachers have been lost. In GDP, in terms of GDP spending on education, we are in the eighth country, in the queue of the 37 countries of the European Union, in efforts at education, according to GDP, in the eighth place in public investment in the queue, in education. I don't know: an increase of 180% in concert spending. We could go on like this. You mishandle the data. And he's finished saying there's the individual. We come to a brilliant conclusion: there is the individual, but education is aimed at improving society, not an individual. Because there are certain individuals who are born with better economic conditions...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u142	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u143	...that allow them to choose and position themselves better from the moment of exit. So, Counsellor, what we ask of you, what we demand of you, is that it be consistent, that, at least, depending on the lines of your policy...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u144	Finish it, Mr. Vázquez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u145	...and he doesn't go up to this stage to deceive and lie to the citizen. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u146	Thank you, Mr. Vázquez. Socialist Group. Mr. Docasar.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u147	President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Rodríguez. If I took advantage of the first part of my intervention to criticize the things done by the People's Party over the past few years, in telling you that I personally would like you, as a new education adviser, to have room to maneuver to do different things, let me now briefly center this second part of my intervention to tell you what concrete things would have to start to change to correct the course, in the view of the Socialist Group, of course. I need two days, you play with advantage; I had to use yesterday's and today's; you think nothing, a little mouse, half an hour. Mr. Rodríguez, if the recovery has come to our economy, it's also time that this recovery is gradually reaching the Greek education system, and a good time to do it, right away, is when there's a new advisor. Mr. Rodríguez, the Socialist Group wants to propose to you today a series of concrete measures to improve our education and our culture, and I understand that they are viable if there is sensitivity and political will. They're twelve proposals, there's none else – the sweets of yesterday, Mr. Rodríguez, I haven't changed them. You have almost two years to start getting things lost in recent times. It is not, of course, a matter of sudden recovery of more than 400 million euros lost. It is, Mr. Rodríguez, that the education community in Greece is beginning to see different things. Let's go with the sweet measures I want to remind you of. He gradually restates the labor and professional conditions seized by the teaching group; he gradually restates them, not by accident. He gradually restates the squares of teachers lost in recent years in schools, institutes and universities. Put in place an ambitious plan to improve the facilities of educational centres, which have become obsolete due to the lack of proper maintenance in recent years, and renew their teaching equipment, mainly computerized and vocational training. Put in place a plan to seriously correct – and not with propaganda – the existing digital divide – and I'm glad you said it today, because for months and months they denied it at parliamentary headquarters – between urban centers and rural centers, and it provides the educational centres that have six months ago deployed to FP of the means and resources; they have not received a single euro, that is an obvious fact, something they will have to do there. The fifth measure: ensure that no child or child of compulsory education is without a dining room when he needs it or attends the class without a textbook in school matters; that – let's say – task for the next course. It progressively recovers the amounts that educational institutions need for their operating costs and which have been lost in recent times. It guarantees the directors of the three Greek universities a fair funding plan for the 2016-2020 stage, which is not imposed in Galicia on the reform of the 3+2 degrees of Minister Wert and that no talented student will be denied access to the university due to lack of economic means. Please regain the language consensus existing in the Fraga and Touriño eras, put in place a plan to recover the lost speakers – I say, and I am also glad that this is the case – and seriously support the cultural fabric of our country. Put in place a serious and rigorous plan for the empowerment of foreign languages that facilitates student stays and teachers during summer vacations. Put in place a serious and rigorous project, and coordinated with different councils, to recover the talent lost in recent years by forced emigration of our well-trained youth. It recovers the 12 million euros illegally handed over to centres that segregate by sex and, as far as possible, removes the Education Council from the courts of justice. And, finally, Mr. Rodríguez, ensure that no centre you request in time and form a PROA program will be left unattended. Mr. Rodríguez, these are twelve concrete measures that would be welcomed by the whole of the education community of Galicia. There are also twelve concrete measures to see if the change of advisor is accompanied by a change of policies and attitudes. Mr. Rodríguez, the Socialist Group criticized him today, but at the same time as we did so, we also put a series of realistic and feasible proposals on the table.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u148	It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u149	...that they would be welcomed by the education community of Galicia. Criticism on the one hand, proposals on the other, Mr Rodríguez. You have to decide whether you simply administer the inheritance that Mr. Vázquez leaves you or whether, on the contrary, you are willing to change policies and attitudes to demonstrate to the education community that the recovery has come and has done it to stay. And, briefly – I have thirty seconds left – for Mr. Farínas, I don't forget you. He says: of course I listened and took note, I respect the counselor very much, so I took notes and then I can leave them there – I have them there, in bad letters but I have them, I think I understand them, not like Mr. Rajoy. ILP. I said in my intervention that it coincided with a lot of things, but also that there were things that I was disagreed with. You didn't listen to me, I don't think you heard me. And you talk to me about patience. I agree with you in all the education committees and also with the 1st Commission. My patience? I have been presenting in this Parliament for two years – I will continue, but I am wrong – two years presenting initiatives and I have never been approved. Man!, patience patience I think I have enough. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u150	Thank you, Mr. Docasar, thank you. People's Group. Mr. Flours.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u151	Thank you very much, Madam President. Counsellor, if it is true that in the first speech I said that the parliamentary groups did not take any points, this second intervention began by saying that they beat the classes directly. They keep telling us here and talking about computer applications in the classroom. It's just that they didn't listen; of course, they weren't, they were elsewhere, intellectually, although physically they were here, because they didn't know that 100 percent of all public schools in the fifth and sixth elementary schools, plus all high school courses, are going to be incorporated into the ICTs with that plan that you presented to us here today in collaboration with Amtega. But well... You've seen that the speech is still the same: by throwing pestilences against multilingualism, throwing pestilences against scholarships, throwing pestilences against the books, against the Abalar project, throwing pestilences, I think even against the rectors – they believe they understand there at a time of intervention by some spokesman, I don't know if they're going to make a demonstration to the rectors too or not – but, in any case, pests against everything, and always dealing with the same matter: with the expense. In the matter of spending this opposition is that, of course, they spent too much, things were very expensive, and they didn't know how to work with the resources they had, which were over-whelmed, not even remaining resources were able to reach the levels of efficiency and efficiency that come with much less resources, much less resources we've been managing, they've been running at the Galician Summit and defending here in this Parliament the People's Parliamentary Group to do more with less. That's a phrase that, well, I've heard for the first time the current advisor: do more with less. But I'm going to be something more original, Mrs. Pontón, and I'm going to mention this that has been proven many times and many years ago the famous HH, Helenio Herrera: with 10 plays better than with 11; that's yes: I'm going out with 11. Of course, it's much better to have 11 than 10, but it doesn't mean that when it's a -1 or has less resources, it doesn't have to sharpen the engineering, right, and optimize both the effectiveness and efficiency of those measures that you take on the ground on which you act, and this doesn't seem to support much debate. Cost. It's not, it's her mantra, but it's not; if you've read for example to Hanushek -- it's a good reference, right?, Stanford University, prestigious, says that the problem, the key is in teacher training, that it's not in the large amount of investment, it's not even in student ratios per class, it's not, you know you don't, you don't have to say it, because, in addition, you've found that with an excess of spending on what you're currently investing, you've got a frankly worse result, frankly, which shouldn't be all about spending policy. And, ladies and gentlemen, you spoke here about the scholarships – I think it was Mr. Voice of the BNG –. Say: 10,000 rejected, and, hey!, and how many were asked? Oh, you don't have that data. And how much is that 10,000 percent of the total requested? You don't have that data. Of course, is it right here that the scholarships now consist in asking for them or meeting the requirements to have access to them? Because the Galician Union compensates for the part of students from the Greek universities who don't meet the Ministry's criteria for access to scholarships, and that's not said, but that's exactly what happens. We don't talk about college and research, for example, they've diminished. No, no, so many researchers have never been consolidated, as in this time of rule of the People's Party, never; the number of researchers is similar, even having the same numbers, varies by three decades of difference. That is the reality, that is being invested in research, this year even EUR 50 million in budgets, which enable remarkable results to be achieved. And today we can talk – which you cannot – about accessing the Starting Grants, the Consolidator Grants, and be able to present projects at European level evaluated by external evaluators of all Consolidators. And that's the prestige that brings to our university, to the University of Galicia, to which you vote, not us.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u152	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u153	Counsellor, let's hear here something about school failure. School failure is not the merit of Joining. To fight against it, to fight against it and to achieve good results is not the merit of the Union; it is the merit of a school community, of well-trained teachers and of integration plans for those students who fail to meet the goals, and that's what you're doing...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u154	End it, Mr. Fariñas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u155	...the Greek education system, in solidarity, apart from being, after Mexico, as you all know, the most equitable in the world.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u156	Thank you very much, Mr. Fariñas, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u157	Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u158	You have the floor to close the debate of the Councillor for Culture, Education and Universitary Order.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u159	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mrs. Martínez, a disaster, it's all a disaster. Look, we're not going to deny that there's been problems, that there's problems and that there's gonna be problems, in any part of life, in education too. But look, we can see the glass half empty or we can see it half full, but you don't even see the glass. It's just that he's asking us every question that really doesn't make sense. [[Applause]] Look, he talked about how he learned English at his time. It certainly changed a lot, didn't it? It's changed a lot and in recent years it's changed a lot, and there's no more going to multilingual centers, to bilingual sections, conversation assistants, to realize that there's been a very important stream of teaching in English, which was a deficit that we had and we still have as society, and that's something that's being remarkably corrected. And certainly, as you said, you can't bet on stupidity, that would be the worst of nonsense, bet on stupidity, and we won't fall there, don't worry, that we won't fall there. Mr. Pombo, IES of Culleredo. This government is the one who's doing it and who's going to inaugurate it in December, you'll see as you do. You, who don't see anything, or who doesn't see anything, or who refuses to see the evidence, the IES of Culleredo is doing, and the forecast is that in December you can inaugurate; that's yes. And look, he said to walk outside. I also tell you to walk outside. Universities. Go to Catalonia or go to Madrid and see how universities are in those autonomous communities. Pathetics; the most pathetic of all, complete. Go and see the debt you have and how you have payments a day with your staff, and how you have open the lines of investigation, which, by the way, we have them. Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, And look, you talked about the public services and you talked about the Index method – I think I remember, right? – the Lord Index's grandson. According to his theory, if Mr. Index's grandson had been on a bus at school, according to his theory, he would have had a dining room for free. That's not our theory, it's not our model. [[Murmurs.]] And you talked about doctoral theses. I'll tell you one thing, Mr. Pombo: I did my thesis many years ago, I did my thesis many years ago, twenty years ago, and I did it in Greek... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u160	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u161	...and then there was no help in making theses in Greek, and then there were them, but it will depend on the interest of each thesis in doing it in Greek or not; you understand that you can't be forced. Just like you mentioned here, there's a few hours of class going on at the universities in Galicia. You suppose that's not why you're trying to interfere or ask us to interfere with the freedom of chair. I suppose not, because it would really be a matter we wouldn't understand. [[Murmurs.]] Look, Mr. Vázquez, you say it's all propaganda, it's all smoke, it's all data redo. The 18.4 million that were proposed here as new investments are new, new investments, which are made as a result of a reorganization of European funds; these are new issues that will correct some of the deficits we had. And they won't get to anything. We could invest much more, 30, 40, what was needed; the education system absorbs any amount of public resources, just like the health system, but it's not a smaller investment to put in place today, above the table, 18.4 million euros to wire, to make digital educational centers, all educational centers in the public system – fifth, sixth and ESO –, to make new expansions in centers where students are required, to improve the technology of vocational training centres. It's not a minor matter. Obviously, we'd like to have more, of course. And I'll also tell you what Mr. Farinas said. The failure of school, the failure of school, of course, and it wouldn't be so stupid to try to say it's a medal of mine, or much less, and you think it's been used as a rhetorical resource, don't you? but what's true that school failure hasn't had a slight fall in recent years. From the year 9 until today it had a significant fall, of many points, and it fell throughout Spain, yes, but in Galicia it fell much more than in other autonomous communities; and there the key was, on the one hand, the measures that were implemented, but on the other hand, those measures that were implemented by the Galician Union, and that were very well received by the school community, for example, the program contracts, which were an authentic disaster when they were proposed, that now you claim them and that there is a very much-received voluntary measure that contributed to reducing the school failure; or the Abalar programme, or the digital book, measures that are oriented to improve the education system, to make it more attractive for students and to avoid, along with the reinforcement of diversity and special educational care, that there is a lower rate, much lower rate of dropout than there were in times of fattening cows, in times of bouncing, and that proved that the good things were done, with the professor and the educational community, they considered themselves to reduce the benefits of the educational community, which they had been taken into consideration. Well, Mr. Docasar, you put me on sweet duty. We've talked about it before, I think I'm not going to go deep into them anymore, I'm just going to tell you that you talk little about the student; they talk a lot about the wages, they talk a lot about the hours that the teacher gives, but they talk a little about the student; and that's where we have to talk, what the student receives, and the improvements that students have, and that's the key we have to work on to improve the education system. And, having said this, I would already like to conclude, Madam President, to raise those questions that will, to some extent, reinforce a model that works and allow, starting from continuity, to give a new impetus to our culture and our education. Look, in culture – we said – we're going to bet on internationalization and we're going to turn the City of Culture into a real cultural factory, an entrepreneurial center that serves to dynamize our cultural sector, and that the City of Culture is the face of our cultural sector. In cultural heritage, we've already spoken of it: a new law, a new law from which we will soon have articulated text. In English, we continue to offer consensus, we want to continue to work on what unites us and not on what separates us, and we believe that this should be done from conviction, not by coercive measures, from conviction, and that is why we have already begun, in the short term, in an immediate manner, a plan of linguistic dynamization in the socio-economic fabric, and in the medium term we are going to put in place a plan, with concrete measures and actions, which enables young people – which is where we see that more action is needed – to use Welsh more, once the education system – as the IGE data say – ensures their knowledge, at the oral level, at the written level and the level of reading. Technological modernization of teaching. I've already said it, but I repeat it – I think it's important –: 11.2 million euros to make digital 100% of the classes of the Greek public centers in fifth, sixth and ESO, and to extend, continue to advance in the digital books so that they get to more and more students. LOMCE. Development and publication, also virtually immediately, of ESO and Bacharelate decrees so that the educational community can bring them closer together. Qualitative aspects: Plan of coexistence, Conselo da Convivencia, Plan LIA. The LIA Plan is fundamental to improving the reader understanding of our students. Educational infrastructure. I said: new plans, new investments, 6.1 million euros in new budgets for expansion projects of those centres that demand and demand demographic pressure. He bets on FP, basic vocational training, according to course, and also EUR 1 million to modernize FP equipment, so that our students attending FP have access to the classrooms, workshops, to the most modern technology, at the computer level, at all levels, and they can go out to the labour market and to the productive sectors to transfer that knowledge that they will acquire at vocational training workshops. Universities, of course dialogue, proposals to modernize SUG, negotiation, which is underway a new funding plan that will be implemented taking into account the principles of the three universities and starting from the need to deepen in a system of results that placed us in the European vanguard in funding matters; and of course – I said too – talks with universities, to implement, at the moment it touches, and it touches – because it is a voluntary application – the new decree that reorganises the duration of degrees, in 4+1 or 3+2. Then we're going to agree absolutely with the universities. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, we're talking about a model that has a trajectory, we're talking about a model that has its variables, which have shown that they have yielded results, and we're talking about a new drive and an investment effort that is now coming with new investments -- new, not previous -- 18.4 million. We'd like to be able to count on you and be able to reach agreements, so that Galicia has a stronger culture, has a more valued and more used language, a more modern and quality education and a stable and ready university system to face the challenges of the future. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u162	Thank you very much. We suspended the session until this afternoon at 6:00, five. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u163	We restart the session with the third item on the agenda, which corresponds to the motions. The quorum was already in the morning. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Laughter]] G.P. motion. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da María Soledad Soneira Tajes, on the judicial proceedings involving various senior positions of the Junta de Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u164	No amendments were tabled to this motion. Mrs. Soneira has the floor for her defense.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u165	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all I apologize for this wasle, because I have to breathe in my mouth. So I came in the morning, without ideological distinctions, this is what affects all of us. Let's hope it's early in the spring. We're back on a rather unpleasant, very unpleasant subject. I, who has also been in this House for some time now, remember Mr. Alberto Núñez Feijóo who entered Montepío practically on board that policy of establishing a person who was in Montepío because it seems that he bought hearings every day, which is a gentleman who was gifted with good life and everything else. Of course, while that was said, the person who made such accusations was walking across Galicia on board a high-end Citroën, and curiously when he entered the Government as president already, evilfully the Audis, the vast majority of them acquired by President Fraga, and bought cars in Citroën. And Mr. Núñez Feijóo never considered it necessary to give any kind of explanation, things are like that! In this same gallery, in one of the most boisterous acts I remember, Mr. Núñez Feijóo accused Mr. Touriño of paying the rent of the housing he used for his holidays with public money. Mr. Touriño, in a later appearance, came here, handed the bill – which must appear in the archives of the Presidency of Parliament – and Mr. Núñez Feijóo gave no explanation. Today Mr. Núñez Feijóo persisted in the plot, forgetting his role as President of the Union, and he slid – he didn't even say, because for this he has to have evidence and he doesn't have them, at least from his predecessor – that the former Presidents of the Union used public resources in their election campaigns. The current President of the Council has forgotten his institutional role and continues to act as what was in the opposition, a gentleman who gives him one thing and another. The same gentleman who from the rostrum encouraged his spokesmen – one of them today awarded to the General Secretariat of Emigration – to say that in Montepío he lived a sultan lover of luxury, he is the same lord who walks through the rivers of Galicia or the elite ibicene waters in luxury yachts owned by people firmly condemned as drug traffickers. And this gentleman is not worthy to show up or give any kind of explanation, and that goes, it goes with dignity, it doesn't go any other way. Mr. Núñez Feijóo seems to have not yet understood that this is a democratic regime and that it has to account for citizens, because, if he does not explain this kind of relationship, it is possible to interpret unpleasant things. 40 people have been charged a week ago in this country by Judge Ruz, among others by the People's Party, and among those 40 people at Gürtel there is a prominent person, as prominent as he was secretary of the PPDG organization. In the performances, the police say that the People's Party is in that relationship of Basel bringing money, or receiving money, or buying a headquarters in Pontevedra with black money, and here no one says anything. It is found that 40 people and the People's Party are being tried, where the PPDG has a leading role, and the President, President of the People's Party of Galicia, seems not to go with him. When the courts condemn the person who was taking Mr. Núñez Feijóo for walking through the rivers or ibiscene waters, they condemn him firmly, and they say he was whitening money from criminal activities. Mr. Núñez Feijóo, who at the time of his encounter with opposition, curious!, considered it scandalous that a vice president of the Union, on his vacations, had gone out for a walk with an entrepreneurial friend, who paid his taxes, who in the United States would be a piar of society... – yes, yes, yes, you remember that campaign? – and he demanded explanations from here for all living genres, I don't know what he would say if at that time the vice president had gone out for a walk with Martial Dorado. Sure, sure, sure Mr. Núñez Feijóo would know if he knew about the activities of Mr. Martial Dorado if he were like that. And yet he does not consider – that is what our motion calls for – that he should appear in this House and give explanations of all the scandals in which the People's Party is involved, of illegal financing or of the dangerous friends of the President. I know the spokesperson for the People's Group is coming, and I'm going to tell them that in Andalusia and I don't know where and how many people I don't know. But here is a differential issue – we debate it on more than one occasion – neither you, nor us, nor any opposition group, nor any family, nor any of us can rule out having a friend who one day delinquents to enrich himself. But when you organize a plot to fund a political party in different autonomous communities, and we are seeing the one falling down in Madrid these days, which, of course, as an illustrious Member who was in this House, Mr. Ismael Rego, is to be ashamed: the cloacas popping up in Madrid cafes, the ones that run away from the police nominated candidates to the first city of Spain, and all that in the media... yes, the truth to me wouldn't give me a laugh, I mean, I wouldn't... No, no, no, I just pick it up in some case, Mr Puy, what an illustrious Member of this House says: what comes out in the press is the faithful reflection of reality. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] You know that. And when reality has to change it, they also change it. There is a fact – and that is not in the press, that is in the statements of the judge, the one of Martial Dorado is tested by a court and condemned – here, a lady friend – following manifestations of herself – by Mr. José Manuel Romay Beccaria –curious, always in all the salsas – and by Mr. Carlos Negroira, who also says they were very friends, declares that it was not Pachi Lucas, the winner who paid for it, who introduced the president of the board to Mr. Gerardo Crespo; no, he says: it is that the president of the Board, who is a very friend, introduced us to Pachi Lucas. In other words, the world in reverse!, the president of the board presents a gentleman who declares in the courts that a part of the grants for the formation of unemployed is to fund the People's Party... presents not the winner to the president, vice versa!, the president to the achievement. That's what this lady says. I didn't listen to anyone from the People's Party who didn't lie or report it for slander. That is why we ask the president to appear in our motion, for dignity, and to dignify the institution he represents. Because Mr. President has plenty of time for everything, to go to Andalusia, to go to America, to go everywhere, but he doesn't have a minute to come here. And then there's compliance with the law, and compliance with the law is the regulation of this House. Our group has requested nearly 300 requests for appearance, between the whole and the Commission, for various subjects; if we add all the opposition to it, this is 600, in no case! We have requested several decades of information on the basis of Article 9, and if we add up to the rest of the opposition groups, we go over a hundred, in no case! It gives the feeling that neither politically nor even as an obligation to comply with the law, the president changes. And here we are asking for is a penguin of dignity that he asked of the others, who came here, who had to hand over the invoices for the falsehoods that were denounced here, and today the president – planting a tree or reigning a tree that planted in his day – still finished the faena – I insist – persisting again in the plot and slandering, an improper and unworthy role of a president of an autonomous community.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u166	Thank you, Mrs. Soneira. Joint Parliamentary Group. Mrs. Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u167	Thank you, President. Good afternoon to all and to all. I suppose the luck of this motion is going to be the same as the one who's been running all the attempts that the president is responding to the corruption in which he's been plunged since you don't know when. However, I will support this initiative and all the songs go in the same direction. The response of the People's Party, as always, is going to be "others too," "and you more," but at least it will serve to make it a record of Greek citizenship living governed by a corrupt president from the very beginning and illegitimate. The illegal financing of the People's Party, and the market for wills with public funds, has fabricated an intruder that threatens to extend the cancer of corruption to the Welsh social fabric and state. The Mafia was originally a confederation dedicated to mutual protection and the autonomous exercise of the law, and later to organized crime. The mafia, in its ethical code, has as an inviolable standard, above any other, the omertà, the law of silence. Fraud, fraud, theft and clientelism have been and are the way to act in the mobs, and the law of silence has been and continues to be the main weapon for their survival. What confederation do we recognize in fraud, fraud, theft and clientelism that begin to investigate timidly judges and judges? Who enforces the law of silence and hides information? Who makes the contracts papers disappear with Mr. Núñez Feijóo, Mr. Martial Dorado? Who denies that Parliament investigates the cases of corruption of those who are surrounded by the president and denies this Parliament the documentation that has been requested about these cases? I'm talking about the mafia, the mafia, and there's already someone on the scene. For someone it's like looking in the mirror, or a self-image or selfie as it's called now. It's a mafia. PP is [...]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u168	That expression is withdrawn.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u169	I'm not taking that word away.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u170	Quiet, please. Quiet. Quiet, please. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] That expression is removed and you have a call to order.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u171	I just described how a mafia works, and I just wondered if those mafia performances were recognized in any political party; and if you like, I repeat it. The definition is dictionary. I'm not making it up. [[Murmurs.]] The test is in Gürtel, Zeta, Punica, funding from the People's Party of Ourense, Martial Dorado, Pachi Lucas, Town Hall of Compostela... we can follow. That's mafia. We could still expand the list if we went to the report of the Board of Auditors, which denounces similar plots of Operation Zeta as is the case of the Postal Academy, which I have already denounced in this House. Fraud, fraud, theft and clientelism, when they do with public funds that are denied for public services, is a crime. Like when people die from lack of drugs and care because money went to the confederation, it's organized crime. I am convinced that if the illegalization of a political party were to be imposed on the Prosecutor's Office and the Government, the illegalization of the People's Party would already be carried out by criminal organization, by bringing people to social exclusion, by destroying the productive economy for the benefit of financial speculators, by liquidating public education, by killing with cuts to public health, by delivering Galicia and the state to the energy oligopolie, by bailing our country for particular benefit, as they did with boxes and the Greek savings. Today, once again, they will apply omertà, the law of silence, and they will refuse the motion. They will apply their noisy and impertinent silence by responding with insults and talking about things that nothing has to do with the proposal. But you have to respond to the corruption initiatives talking about Andalusia, South Sudan or the Soviet Union, the insistence, at least, increases the chances that the citizenry knows that you, the PP and Niñez Feijóo, are up to the neck of the Gürtel, Zeta, Punica, illegal funding of the party, Martial Dorado, Pachi Lucas, Compostela. Nothing else. If there's still any respect for this land, for the Greeks and the Greeks, you should resign, because Galicia doesn't deserve a Mafia to rule. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u172	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. Mrs. Peace.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u173	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I want to announce that the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group will vote in favour of this motion, knowing that it is difficult in five minutes to try to express, from this rostrum, a serious position in relation to such a serious problem as corruption. We know, moreover, that this motion is hardly going to prosper, as much as it is a very simple motion from the point of view of its compliance. Even the commitments made through it to Mr Núñez Feijóo are, of course, ethical and democratic commitments rather loose and should therefore be quite easy to fulfil. But, as Mrs. Pontón once said from this rostrum, the People's Party and Mr. Núñez Feijóo suffer from the same disease as Dorian Gray, they suffer from the disease that, when the corruption of their soul sharpens the face that they want to show to society, what they do is try to hide that corruption instead of approach it. We saw it here, clearly, in the debate, in the plenary, which was called theoretically to talk about corruption last January 27, and of what we have to say roundly that it was no more than a paripé through which Mr. Núñez Feijóo tried, once again, to hide the painting in the gap so that no one could see it, as Dorian Gray did. Rather that day Mr. Núñez Feijóo, who is so modern, emulated the other Gray, who is much more fashionable, and announced to us here that in fifty days he would bring here fifty measures that more than ever they were trying to hide the fifty shades of Mr. Núñez Feijóo, paraphrasing that so famous trilogy. Because you look, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, the first thing you need to talk about corruption from this forum is to have a minimum of credibility, and the People's Party, about corruption, about zero credibility. And Mr. Núñez Feijóo, if you could say so, has his credibility in this matter under zero, because he's a president who is allergic to coming into Parliament to talk about the issues that hit this country, but he also has a deep allergy to give explanations of very turbulent matters that involve him from a personal point of view. Of course, the Galego Nationalist Block has no intention or interest in knowing about Mr. Núñez Feijóo's personal relations, but we do believe that he has a democratic obligation to appear in this Parliament to explain to us what the political derivations, the derivations in public procurement, how public money comes into the hands of these troubled personal friends of Mr. Núñez Feijóo. And Mr. Núñez Feijóo not only gives not only explanations of these friends, but he has also repeatedly denied this Parliament written information which has been requested in connection with the administration's contracts with these people, hoping to say that part of the documentation related to Martial Dorado companies had suffered a flood. Mr. Núñez Feijóo has low-zero credibility in relation to corruption because he never, ever, lent himself to explain to this House the alleged illegal financing of the People's Party, as well as one of the defendants, indeed – as he said here and I will not insist – he was a prominent militant of the People's Party in Galicia, like Mr. Crespo. Faced with that, what Mr. Núñez Feijóo did since that conference he gave us here on January 27th was nothing more than dissipation in the practice of advertisements that at that time seemed insufficient in relation to corruption. He announced a law of transparency which he is unable to comply with; one which he himself nicknamed insufficient and which was approved in 2006. They are still not at the public's disposal today, for example, the wages, the number or the role of the advisers of this Austere Union who have so criticized other governments for their ostentation. A government that announces a law to avoid the financing by companies of political parties, and we see how soon it was disillusioned. A president who announces the amendment of this Parliament's regulation to give it more participation, and what we see is that it is so generous the People's Party that it offers citizens the opportunity to present the GNP, and then, if any group wants to make it our own, they will be lucky, and if not, they will die in the Register of this Parliament. Faced with this, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, Mr Núñez Feijóo, if in cyberspace you have occasion to see this intervention at some point, take the document that that same day, on January 27, gave you the Nationalist Block Galego, where there are real measures to deal with corruption. But first, as the Holy Mother Church teaches us, before we amend, we must have purpose for the amendment...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u174	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u175	...and repentance, which seems like, the content of the people's party's trajectory, permanently driven by corruption...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u176	It's over now. Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u177	...it doesn't exist. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u178	Parliamentary Group of the Left Galician Alternative. Mrs. Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u179	Good afternoon. The truth is that it is tremendous to think that we have such a low level of democracy, or we are in a democracy at such an intermediate level, that we seem to have to hear in the courts what Mr. Alberto Núñez Feijóo is not able to describe in the Parliamentary House of this country. It would be desirable, without any doubt, for the highest representative of this country to explain everything that has to do with the alleged irregular financing of the People's Party, and it would be desirable that we did not have to know what is happening in the People's Party of Galicia through courts whose headquarters are particularly rooted in Madrid. And why do I say this? I say this because I have here a car that systematically denounces and describes the People's Party as an illegal association which has been repeatedly perceived over the course of twenty years nothing more and nothing less than alleged irregular funding. This is what the Ruz judge's car says that I read directly: "As for the alleged existence, by the People's Party, of a certain financial current of bills and payments held over time for twenty years, aside from the accounting sent by the People's Party to the Court of Auditors." Add it up and go on. But it is interesting, or it should be interesting, that I would appear – for that reason, Mrs. Soneira, we will vote in favour of your two proposals in the motion – and it would be interesting if they were to clear the incognita, that the president would come here to explain to us what happened to that alleged illegal funding that works in the so-called "Bárcenas papers". For example – I'm standing here – tells us in these "Bárcenas papers" that this was an operation that developed from the 1990s to the year 2008. And it tells us, for example, that they received a payment from Pontevedra, specifically from 50,000 euros, which recognises that they were paid and that they were actually handed over by the People's Party of Galicia. It also tells us that there is exactly an amount of 2,600,000 euros of alleged irregular funding from Galicia which – as you say here – are directly linked to Galicia; and we are not inventing it ourselves, it is in the rightly called cause of the "Paper of Basel". We could also continue to point out how Mr. Pablo Crespo recognizes that he has delivered amounts permanently to Álvaro Lapuerta in Galicia – this topic, he says, we have already spoken about it – that it was a specific journey that he made to Galicia just to collect these amounts; and he speaks of companies, in particular, that work in the case. It is also this cause that recognizes that they were amounts that were not usually handed over from Galicia and that, indeed – he said – they have a counterpart in the transfer that they later made. We've followed everything that hit Galicia. It continues to point out that the national party's accounts were blocked for an amount of EUR 160,000, but that after that it had to be claimed to Pontevedra nothing more and nothing less than Pontevedra's headquarters – presumably –. Then there are also questions that are interesting, because in a point that works it also points out that – directly read – "Business continues to help the reason of 12,000 euros a month. In particular, some companies, the FCC company, 50,000 euros a month; ACS, one million euros." Add it up and go on. In fact, then there are some codes that are very interesting. For example, 101 Pescanova, 106 Nexo, 107 San José, 120 Copasa, 121 OHL, Fernández, FCC, etc., had a specific code of allegedly irregular funding from the People's Party of Galicia. Well, it seems that this is enough for the People's Party's highest-ranking representative to appear here and clear the incognita. There are alleged irregular funding from the People's Party, we are facing an illegal association, therefore an [...], as the car and the proceedings of the judge Ruz, or not? [[By order of the President, Santalices Vieira, and in the light of Rule 103.6. of Parliament's Rules of Procedure, this expression of the Journal of Sessions is withdrawn.]] And two more questions. Regarding this corruption, it would also be interesting to know what has happened to another dangerous friend – what we never talk about – of Mr. Alberto Núñez Feijóo, who is Manolito, Pescanova, that of code 101. In fact, it would be convenient for the Greeks and the Greeks to know the large amounts of public resources that have been directed to Pescanova; yes, through the alleged irregular funding of the People's Party. And I'm done now, Mr. President. It would also be interesting if, in that information given to us in the failed cash investigation commission, we knew once and for all - as we know - how it was done to authorize ingenious quantities to that same friend of the People's Party, Mr. Fernández Martín, who then, in fact, led to that black hole which was the destabilization of the financing of the boxes...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u180	Thank you, Mrs. Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u181	...of our country. So, Mrs Soneira, we will vote in favour of your motion.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u182	The word "mafia" is withdrawn, Mrs. Díaz. And, therefore, a call to order. People's Parliamentary Group. Mr. Tellado. [[An honourable Member: You will have to put a sign at the entrance with which you may or may not say.]] You have the corresponding call to order, as it could not be otherwise, of course.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u183	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Martínez, first of all, I have to tell you not to offend anyone who wants but who can. So we don't take your claims into account. We could think that your group is the result of political corruption, electoral fraud, and we're not going to claim it, of course. I don't know, therefore, that you feel so proud, because we all remember how the Joint Group was formed in this House. On the subject, Mrs. Soneira, the truth is that it is surprising that now from the Socialist Party they claim the figure of Mr. Touriño, because those who have treated Mr. Touriño in Galicia were precisely the Socialist Party, kicking him where you remember. So now that you claim the figure of Touriño is, of course, surprising. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u184	Quiet, please. You have to listen, too.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u185	It is surprising that it is precisely the Socialist Party that calls for the presence of the President of the Union to talk about corruption. I don't know if they're asking for an appearance exactly like what Mr. Beaster did in the Deputy of Lugo, where the opposition couldn't speak. I don't know if they ask for a similar appearance. Well, then the Galego Nationalist Block in Lugo didn't say it was a paripé or a conference, so they shut up complicitly. Look, Mrs. Soneira, you weren't paying attention that day, but on January 27, the President of the Board has already appeared in this House to talk about corruption. Not only to talk about corruption, but also to present an ambitious plan of democratic impulse through five new laws that will enable the transparency of government, increase the powers of control and prevention of corruption by the Council of Auditors and, finally, increase the citizen's participation in parliamentary activity. And that brings to you without care. We are talking about five laws which will be passed in this House, with their support or without it, with their proposals, if they do. [[Murmurs.]] Because we, of course, have a commitment to eradicate the improper conduct of politics and we're going to do it, with you or without you. Let's do it with five laws: new Galician Transparency Law to transparent the Government's action; new Council of Auditors Act to increase its functions and control of the prevention of corruption; new Law to manage the legal assistance of the General Administration of the Autonomous Community; new Law to regulate popular legislative initiatives and new Law to finance political parties, which will prevent, for example, Mrs Prado, that the Nationalist Block of Wales is compatible with public aid with Vendex's checks. That won't be possible with our law. What is obvious is that the Socialist Party is set up in this: "Do what I say and not what I do." You, Mrs Soneira, forget that the president of your party, the PSdEG-PSOE, is charged with various causes of corruption. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] You forget that the former secretary general of your party is charged... [[Interruptions.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u186	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u187	...by the way, candidate for the presidency of the Union for corruption.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u188	Quiet, please. Play now.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u189	And forget that the current secretary-general of his party, Mr. Besteiro, is being investigated by a court case of Lugo also for corruption; with records of the offices, for eleven hours, of the closest collaborators. I have to tell you, Mrs. Soneira, to send it to Mr. Besteiro, that you see the straw in your alien eye and don't see the beam in your own eye. That's the reality. Or that, or that you have become the greatest inquisitor of the kingdom. You charge crimes to whom you have not even been called to declare, and justify your party many, many, many, things. Do it every time you talk in this gallery. You come to this House under parliamentary inviolability to defame and insult people. We, of course, are not going to contribute to that strategy. You stand behind this parliamentary prerogative to plot, defamate and slander people, that is reality. You talk about causes of corruption where our party has nothing to do with it, but it doesn't matter to you. On requests for information, we have to tell you that this is the Government that is most subject to parliamentary control of the opposition, and this is demonstrated by the statistics of appearances and information sent to the House. Thanks, by the way, to that information sent to the House, we were able to know those magnificent relationships that the bipartisan had with Mr. Gerardo Crespo. I don't know if you remember the one about "Let's stay orphaned." So that's what we know thanks to that information sent to the House. [[Murmurs.]] Questions answered. Look, when you were in government, 13,000 on the VIII legislature, on the IX legislature, 38,000. That's our transparency. Madam Soneira, politics isn't worth everything. As you will understand, we will not accompany her in this lamentable drift of the Socialist Party of Mr Bester. Tell Mr. Besteiro we're going to vote against. We're already working on a plan against corruption.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u190	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u191	You guys, if you want to participate, take part, but... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Look, you and I know very well why Mr. Beaster runs away from the Deputy of Lugo. We both know that, but you're the one who can't say it. It's not because I'm going to run for the 2016 autonomous elections...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u192	End, end, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u193	...it's not like that. You know that Mr. Beaster doesn't want to be a candidate, possibly what he wants is to be spared. But you certainly don't talk to us about it. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u194	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u195	Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u196	Thank you, Mr. Tellado. Author group of the motion, Mrs. Soneira. [[Mr. Jorquera Caselas asks for the floor.]] Yes, Mr. Jorquera, what do you want the word for? [[Mr. Jorquera Caselas speaks words that are not perceived.]] No, there were no allusions. No, please don't tell me there were allusions in this debate because there were allusions to everyone. [[Murmurs.]] In this debate there were allusions... [[Interruptions.]] No, no, you don't have the floor. No, no, you have no word, Mr. Jorquera. [[Mr. Jorquera Caselas speaks words that are not perceived.]] Sorry, the debate... the debate... No, Mr. Jorquera, you don't have the floor! The debate was so turbulent that I didn't have the floor. There were allusions everywhere, there was no word. [[Mr. Jorquera Caselas speaks words that are not perceived.]] Mrs. Soneira, Mrs. Soneira, your turn. No, no, you don't have a word. I'm sorry, Mr. Jorquera. I'm sorry I can't give you the floor. Mrs. Soneira, your turn.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u197	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, it's not bad enough that you're lying about and slandering me, because Mr Tellado has just given us a whole lesson in addition to enlightening, at least this modest lady, which is why Mr Besteiro has made the plans he has made. I mean, Mr. Besteiro organizes his life, his schedule, but who interprets it is Mr. Tellado. Of course, it's as if I'm doing an interpretation of something that's rolling around by Ferrol of certain friends of Mr. Tellado, who eventually receive in the form of advertising contracts from the Labour Council the payments they made for the PP campaign. I don't know, I don't know. Do you want us to talk like that on that level? Sure, because you, Mr. Tellado, say inquisitive and I don't know that... No, no, look, I tried. [[Murmurs.]] Martial Dorado is a criminal, and he spent the president of the board on ships that were shot by the police because he suspected they were dealing with drug trafficking. Perhaps in the Central African Republic the president has no obligation to explain it at least. In a democracy, yes. And of course, you're right, Mrs. Paz, this motion is a thousand rounds and we finally opt for the simplest, so in a democracy it should be the abc, which gives the idea that the President of the Board has democratically. Who appears to account for the citizens and to comply with the law, who gives us information, who doesn't talk about flooding. Because look, first I had broken up with him when that boat in the Arousa stream, but then it was discovered that up to three years later they had a correspondence. Sure, sure, sure. Well, of course it's regrettable! It is unfortunate that we have to get here precisely because the President does not want to account. Because look, democracy, transparency, regeneration... I've pointed to everything the president told us. Do you believe that what the president did this morning, or what the president did when he was in the opposition and accused Mr. Tourin of those things that he clearly knew were lies, does that behaviour of the President of the Board correspond to what he preached? Man, please, Mr. Tellado! Please! A minimum of dignity for the institution representing the president of the Union! Yes, man, yes, that's why you don't talk about anything about it, because you know that we are right, that we deserve an explanation, that the citizens of Greece deserve it. And you come to tell us here the milonga that brought us in January the president of the board, expert in looking what he does and does not do. Like some contract in your city that was going to give everyone a job, don't you know, on electoral evenings, and we've seen what's left, right? So you're going to vote that you don't...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u198	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u199	...to something that is elementary, to which the regulation is complied and to which the president of the board behaves like what is theoretically, a president of a democracy. Nothing else, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u200	Thank you, Mrs. Soneira. G.P. motion. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo, on the performances to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in relation to the use of the language of Greek
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u201	No amendments were tabled to this motion. Mrs. Pontón has the floor for her presentation.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u202	Good afternoon. As during the debate of the inquiry the absent President of Parliament told us that we could not use these modern audiovisual media, I'm going to go to something more traditional, classic, such as the photos, that they can be used from the rostrum even if they don't express our voice. In these pictures you don't look very well, you don't have much quality, but I'm sure your lordships are able to see what you're portraying in these pictures. These photos represent the destruction of an incalculable value heritage and have turned the world around in the last few days. And I'm sure all of us here will tell us that it seems like a barbarity that can destroy a millennium heritage. However, I also say here today that this sentence that is supposed to be made on the destruction of the heritage does not cease to have a certain dose of hypocrisy, and I'm going to explain. It is hypocritical that the same people or organizations that today are censored that in this part of the world can be destroying that heritage, not so long ago, and even now, they applaud when countries like Iraq, like Iran or Afghanistan, have also destroyed their heritage with those Western bombs and thousands of people have been killed. But we also understand that it is, from a political point of view, a hypocrisy which is censored the destruction of heritage thousands of miles from our country, but that at the same time in our own home, in our own country, if we allow destruction not already of the heritage, but of the most important cultural wealth that Galicia has, as is our language. And that's it, ladies and gentlemen, what's going on in our country. There are a number of policies that are now being implemented that are destroying the greatest collective creation of our people, like our language. Here, in fact, there are no pictures that portray disaster, because language is not like a statue that we see as it breaks. But if we have evidence and evidence of how our tongue is gradually being destroyed, how it is, therefore, destroying a part of what we are like a people that has existed for a long time. And as much as you repeat it, it's obvious that here we don't have a bilingualism situation, a situation of cordiality or a situation of normality. In practice, Counsellor, welcome to the debate what is taking place is a replacement of the Greek by the Spanish. You – and today the counselor did this in the morning – are trying to convince us that the normal thing is to maintain the exclusion of the Greek language. The policy that the People's Party is making in this matter is to tell us: Galician friends and friends, it's normal for the Welsh language to be a language b, which is excluded from the areas in which we socialize. And if not, they think that the People's Party in recent years has taken a single measure for the sake of Greek to eliminate some of the discrimination. They are not able to name any! because the only thing they did was to take measures that were clearly harmful to our language. I invite your lordships to come out of this Parliament today to the only cinema that remains in Santiago de Compostela and that we try to see a film in English. You'll see it's impossible. I invite them to go to many of the kiosks as well and try to buy a daily newspaper and read the press written in English; summer, gentlemen, which is impossible. I invite them to try, during their university stage, to have a training in the English language. Impossible! By the way, at public universities in this country there may be some subjects in English. But if you try to study at UNED, you'll see that in UNED, in this state so democratic, Spanish state, it's a language that is banned, which cannot be used. I invite you to go to the health centers and see what the positive offer is for patients who assist the doctor. You will see that in a very important part it is not only that the doctor does not respect the initial language of that patient, that all the documentation that is delivered is in Spanish, and therefore, from the directly dependent public institutions of the Galician Union, in areas where one could act for linguistic normalization, there is not only an empty one, but there are setbacks, as we have reported, in the media, in justice, in teaching, that is, in all areas of socialization, which is where the Greek language must be present. And I ask them – and of course I am not surprised – if you have never encountered a situation of linguistic discrimination. My attention is drawn to the fact that, after reporting how we reported in this plenary that a girl in the Coruña a few days ago, in a company, they told her directly in a job interview that as they intended to hire her, she would speak in English, the general secretary of linguistic policy didn't call us to know, a linguistic discrimination that is attacking a fundamental human right, where they would occur and what they would do. But you don't want discrimination to go into the light, and you don't currently defend the language that's in the worst position. What they want is to keep the hexemony of the Spanish and go slowly eliminating all differential features of our country. We believe, of course, that there must now be a radical change in language policy. We regret that the Counsellor on his debut, in these last few days, is unable to bring anything new to the linguistic debate beyond repeating the old lying topics on the situation of the Greek language and on the causes and its problems. Because now it seems like the problem of the Greek language is that there are people who speak it, that there are people who defend it, that there are people who denounce their discrimination. The problem is not the absence of normalization policies. No, no. The problem is called in this case BNG, which you try to blame for the situation in Galicia, when in reality the situation in Galicia and that guilt that they do is to point out their absences in every area where you could be acting. And we find it regrettable that you continue with this policy of torture and manipulation of data and reality, because reality, as much as you try, cannot be twisted. And as much as you deny it, they know that reality out there is another. Look, data from the Galego Institute of Statistics tells us that there is a very important loss of speakers in the English language. In 2013 it says: 31.2% of the Greeks usually speak in English. This percentage is 12 points below the one registered ten years ago. Among the population – and listen to this data because it seems very relevant to me – less than 15 years old, the percentage of those who know how to speak little is increased to 22.70%; i.e., one in four under 15 years old does not know how to speak Greek. And today the councillor has dared to say here that the laws are fulfilled, that there is equality in language competition and that the Galego Institute of Statistics reflects a vigorous reality for our language! I really think it's an insult to intelligence, and that the Counselor has this afternoon an opportunity to correct these words, at least with respect to the truthfulness and intelligence of the Greeks and the Greeks. They also know that they are breaking the law, because the Language Standardization Act says that one of the obligations of public authorities is to ensure that, at the end of the educational stage, adolescents have the same competence in both languages, and this survey says otherwise. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, there is a serious problem in this country, a reality which the Government denies, which uses the lie in this case to cover up a massacre in which there is indeed no blood, but if there is destruction of a culture and in which they do not want to act. Today we propose more than thirty measures on this motion that have a very simple basis: compliance with the legality and compliance with the agreements that existed, the General Plan of Linguistic Standardization. Because, really, now that they tell us that the solution for Greek is another plan, when the ten-year plan has been grossly breached by you, it does not cease to be the demonstration that they have no desire to do anything but continue to lie and propaganda. And we propose that they actually repeal that decree, as requested by the Royal Galaga Academy. The counsellor said in the interpellation that he was in accordance with the requests of the Royal Galician Academy, you can read it in the Journal of Sessions. They demand the repeal of the decree, and I am convinced that today you will vote in favour of this point in coherence with what you have said in your interpellation. We ask them to also accept the offer made by the Greek universities to evaluate the language competence of the student. Why don't you want to know what the scientific consequences of this decree are? Why are they still installed wanting to hide the truth? We call for measures, we propose measures in the field of administration. Let the Greek public resources be used to normalize the language. You don't have to spend any more, you have to use the money already available in all the tips so they can actually increase language usage. That the offices of the Galician Union respect the law as it refers to the use of Greek in the exercise of its office, because that also prestigious the language and therefore introduces an element of normality in relation to the exclusion of Greek in many areas. We ask that in Justice you may also not only have all the documentation in English, but also have justice in our language. In the health field, an invitation is made to the health care staff themselves to make a positive offer in English, to signage in our own language. Let the TVG have a programming that really gives our young and young cultural references in our language. There's no programming for the youth audience at the TVG today. And we also asked...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u203	Thank you, thank you, Mrs. Pontón. You're done, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u204	... –endorsed, Mr President – that in the media, money of linguistic normalization is no longer given to maintain the exclusion, because it is a shame that billions of euros have been spent in the media, in theory to guarantee their normalization, and that today we have less Greek in the written press than during frankism. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u205	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Mrs Pontón, the president's not here at the moment does not mean she's not in Parliament, as it could have been checked over the day. Joint Parliamentary Group. Mrs. Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u206	Under the alarming data just presented by the BNG there is a genocide: the genocide of the Greek people. Because Galicia is not a territory, Galicia is the Greeks and the Greeks. Galicia would not exist if it were inhabited only by people from other cultures; because Galicia is its language, its culture, the way it relates to the environment. If Galicia loses what makes her unique, she may be populated but she will no longer be Galician. According to UNESCO, around 50 per cent of the world's 6,000 languages are in danger of extinction. 96% are spoken by only 4% of the world's population. More than 90% of the Internet content is reduced to only 12 languages. UNESCO points out that every language reflects a vision of the unique world in its gender, with its own system of values, its specific philosophy and its peculiar cultural characteristics. Its extinction implies an irrecoverable loss of the unique cultural knowledge that has been embodimented over the centuries. Languages reach the point of crisis after being moved by another, socially, politically and economically dominant, as happens in Galicia with Spanish, and now the Greek. Most of the people may speak Spanish, because it's key to accessing jobs, education and opportunities, because that's what the Greek Government transmits with its policies of permanent aggression to our language. Sometimes people ask me if languages really matter in the era of globalization. My answer is simple: the day that all languages in Europe cease to speak, it will be the day when Europe, as an idea and as a project, ceases to exist. This is the statement by the European Commissioner for Multilingualism on the occasion of the Day of Languages. The minority languages of Europe struggle for their recognition against social, cultural and political walls. Beyond the 23 languages that the European Union recognizes as officers, there are 46 million Europeans who speak 60 minority languages. Only six minority languages are more than one million speakers, one of whom is Greek, spoken by two and a half million Europeans. The European Union considers Catalan to be a language of communication, not German. That's why it's unbearable and intolerable the galeguicidity to which the Junta is subjecting Galicia and attitudes like that of the CEG. According to the statement by the Galego Labour Relations Council on aid to calls for the formation of unemployed, the CEG called upon the Councillor to delete any reference to the use of Greek in the barrem. The employer considers that there is a risk of loss of quality and efficiency in training if it is given in English, because they say that students do not dominate the language. However, they do not oppose exams in English. For the Greeks it is easier – according to the CEG – to speak English than to speak Greek. On the other hand, it is also true that the CEG bets that it does not hire Greek speakers, and that when a delivery a curriculum in Greek is automatically removed from any possibility of finding work. Still, we're talking about a total of five points about eighty, but the CEG looks very much like it. What you want is that the Greek doesn't care about anything in the grants. And you, the People's Party, call harmonic bilingualism to diglossia, but this is like calling harmonious coexistence to labor harassment or psychological abuse in the couple. In the last twenty years, the number of spokespersons has been alarmedly reduced, especially in youth. The role of Televisión Galega is of genuine murder of the Greek language, both in the quality it is providing in recent years and in the lack of programming. I'm done with time, but it's obvious that there's a determined bet on the Board that the Galician television is not able to transmit culture or leisure or performing arts to children and our children and our youth, so they can grow up in Greek, so they can live in Greek. The Union's bet is that it lives in Spanish, as it's collected in the Public Employment Bill, and that it's looking for life in English. The Greek, you see, is useless; that's what you transmit. That's why you're right, today more than ever, the Greeks and the Greeks know our language, we know it, we know it, we write it, we know it, we read it, but Together prevents us from using it. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u207	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. Parliamentary Group of the Left Galician Alternative. Mr. Ron.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u208	Good afternoon, everyone. From the Alternative Glaga de Left, as it could not be otherwise, we will support this initiative, this motion, because, indeed, we live in an institutional and political context, on the part of the Greek Executive, unfavorable towards the normalization of the Greek language, towards its normalization in all uses of everyday life. And we have to do it because again we have to denounce this fallacy of harmonic bilingualism, because deep down we know that, from a linguistic and scientific point of view, it is a process of replacement of the language that is reduced by the dominant, i.e. the context of diglossia, the triumph of the ideologicalization of diglossia, which is what we are living in. Therefore, there is a need for positive reaffirmation of the Greek language to increase its use in all the issues of life in society. Cities like Vigo, La Coruña, Ferrol, where the figures of use show us that the predominant use of Spanish rises above 80%. There are communicative strategies that, besides for us, are a mistake, which the counselor mentioned this morning. Language surveys cannot be done depending on the partisan profile. The language is from our people, from the Greek people. It's a right of an entire people, and you pay attention to that right. That's why we prefer to keep official data from the Galego Institute of Statistics, which tells us about a very low increase in people who speak in English always, going from 29.96% to 30.84% in five years, while those who speak Spanish only increase by six points. Or the data does not encourage that only 15.12% writes in English as usual, compared to 83.74% writing in Spanish. Looking at the fringe between the ages of 5 and 14, people who usually speak in English, or more than Spanish, are only 25.12%, compared to 74.84% who do so in Spanish. The data is clear, and they distract us from the intergenerational clearance process. That's why we need to rescue from forgetfulness, from the proud institutionality to which the People's Party, the Welsh Executive, the General Linguistic Standardization Plan adopted unanimously in 2004. And the first thing we have to do is to override that misconception called plurilingualism, because it is precisely the first demotivating, disincentive agent, the use of the Greek language. Because we're not talking about competition, that new distortion that has been introduced into the education system, we're talking about the full and conscious use of the English language as a language of communication in the classrooms so that it's out of class. The Committee of Experts on Spain on the observance of the European Charter of Regional and Minority Languages precisely assessed the impact of the decree as a negative, since the teaching of Greek has been reduced at all levels, and it recommended even something we have not asked for, that we no longer dare or ask for, and we should ask for it: a sufficient number of teaching centres in which linguistic immersion was carried out in Greek to, precisely, advance and emerge from the descent in which you have plunged us as regards the use of the Greek language. It is therefore necessary to draw up a new decree which considers all measures agreed unanimously – not all, but to renew those which had to be renewed – of the 2004 General Linguistic Standardisation Plan. As far as childhood education is concerned, we have already had the opportunity to denounce here, in this plenary, the situation of teaching and learning the language of the Greek language in stages 0 to 6 years. The deficiencies in the school use of Welsh particularly seriously affect the early stages of education and the learning of reading and writing, and the current decree is precisely a disincentive of its use. Let us remember that the Report on European Languages Threatened by Disappearance and Linguistic Diversity of 3 April 2013 recommended measures for the acquisition of the mother tongue from childhood, precisely because this is the most important step for the language to be a common language. It's not about knowing Greek, about having competence in Greek, it's about the language of Greek being used, and for that the school is fundamental, but also about society, where the Public Administration has to implement all the mechanisms necessary to guarantee the right to speak and to be able to live in Greek in every part of society, but that's not guaranteed. We can talk about any issue in life in society, where the rates of linguistic normalization are very low, very low. Do the test, simply these days, on a paid channel, of watching a film subtitled in English. You can see it in Catalan, in Basque, in English, but not in Greek; and that's because of the lack of will of the Welsh Executive. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u209	Thank you, Mr. Ron. Socialist Parliamentary Group. Mr. Caamaño.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u210	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, gentlemen. The Socialist Parliamentary Group will support this initiative of the Galego Nationalist Block, which is an example – I could have written another – that when you hear the alarms and listen to the concern of citizenship about the state of our language, it is possible to do things. This initiative collects a large part of what has been said by the spokesperson for the Galician Nationalist Bloc, of what was the unanimous General Standardisation Plan adopted in this House. This initiative includes a large part of legal measures that are not being implemented – at least effectively – in the daily reality of this Autonomous Community. But, above all, that initiative makes one thing clear that it now wants to underline this parliamentary group. That we either do something, and that especially competes with the Government of Galicia, or it'll be late. That we are no longer in times of rest or extension. That all the alarms have exploded in this country. The Royal Academy, the departments of English Language and Literature, the associations of editors in English, the audiovisual world, the doubling networks, the theatre and artists, the culture in general, the data, and even the statistics, are making us manifest the worrying situation of our language. And before that it can't exist, it's not reasonable in a democracy that there can be a government that looks at people and tells them that it's the fault of families, that he has no responsibility, that these things happen on the edge of who is legitimized to make decisions in a democratic system, that it's best to follow the disillusionment and that things continue daily dying and choking until it disappears. That is the answer given by the Government of Galicia to this situation. Or live in an absolutely unreal world, trying to make makeup and camouflage what is impossible to make up and camouflage, or, on the contrary, let things die slowly. This very morning it was said in this plenary that no one owns the language, and it's true, the language is the matter of all the Greeks and all the Greeks. But no one owns the language. Doesn't mean no one owns the language! And that's what the Galician Union seems to understand, that language is nobody's business, that nobody cares. And all the politics that you've brought before the Feijóo Nuñez People's Party since he came to power, of discredit and frontal attack on the dignity of the Greek language, is giving his results. Indeed, the first way of paying attention to the dignity of the Greek is to be an official in the Galician Union. It is the only place in the world, which I know, where there is the right to ignore the official language itself, and nothing has happened! On the contrary, it was called harmonic bilingualism, cordial bilingualism. But don't you realize what it means for an official language the fact that a person who wants to compete at an official, public square in this Autonomous Community doesn't have to know their official language? It's not just that the rest of the Greeks have the right to address the administration in their own language and, therefore, to wait for anyone who hears them to know them; that's not it anymore. It's a lack of dignity for a system that allows people to say: I ignore the official language and I also recognize the very institutions that have to defend the officiality of that language. Second measure against the absolute dignity of our language in Galicia: the already spoken decree of plurilingualism. Not only what you've been saying, but because you're getting another more pernicious and serious side effect, and the education advisor should know how it's being implemented in the country's educational centers. The vast majority of subjects that with the new decree are no longer given in English are science. I mean, Greek is not a language of prestige to be able to study physics, chemistry or mathematics.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u211	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u212	English is an agricultural language, a language of people from the sea, an ancient one, which some scholars – past in history – have collected and that we, from time to time, celebrate on a marked day of the year. The same government that does this here, I don't know what it will do when it touches Spanish as a scientific language, for example, in the European context. I don't know what he'll do, because I'm convinced he doesn't do the same with the Spanish...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u213	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u214	...you're convinced you don't. So it has a double measuring rod for two languages that are legally equally official. That is another of the great successes of language policy we have. And I'm done now, President, very briefly. Just to say that we will, of course, support this initiative and that it would be good that one day the Government of the United Nations and the People's Parliamentary Group at least return to the Standardisation Plan, and hence, among all others, to seek new consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u215	Thank you very much, Mr. Caamaño. People's Group. Mr. Baamonde.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u216	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good afternoon, gentlemen. It's true that the IGE survey reveals data that force a serious reflection on the language; so did RAG, so did broad social sectors as well. But there are some who prefer to welcome her with sound of drums of war and with catastrophic dyes, helping little to solve the problem. Go ahead, I think we have to make a periphery call to focus on the problem. We're not faced with a teaching problem; what makes the IGE survey manifest is not that. What makes it obvious is that the education system is functioning reasonably well because, as the boys advance in schooling, they improve the perception and use of Greek. We are not faced with a teaching problem because precisely what the survey says is that the problems are not in class, the problems begin when the boys leave the classroom and stop talking in German. We are not faced with a linguistic problem because most of Galician society is in line with the distribution that is being made in the balance of languages, and has ratified it as well by the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia. What we are facing – which is what reveals the survey of the IGE – is a social problem associated with the use of Greek, a complex and serious problem. A complex and serious problem because language is going to be, Mr. Caamaño, what society wants it to be, and that forces us to study the social reality in which we move; a social reality in which we play elements that severely condition the use of languages, for example, new technologies, global communication. And, Mr. Caamaño, it's not about throwing balloons out, but about putting your finger on the chaga, also the aging of Galician rural, which causes people to disappear and eliminate the generational transmission; the agglomeration of people in urban areas, which has an impact because there, in urban areas, the social context is much stronger than the family nucleus and tends to use language as a communication element and not as an element of identity. That's why we need to meet social reality and look for solutions to act on it to implement the use of Greek. What happens, Mrs. Pontón, is that nationalism doesn't care much about that reality. You – I told you the other day and I insist now – have gone into political nationalism in a sort of housed place, patrolled court and straw; that is, a small space, closed on itself, in what lives on the other side. That is precisely why you reduce the problem to the same considerations and the mantra of all time: to blame all the evils on the People's Party; to insist that languages can be imposed by decree, and also to insist on the design to expel Catalan from Galician public spaces the Welsh – sorry – of Galician public spaces to advance in their system of monolingualism in Greek. [[Protests.]] Mrs. Pontón, we believe that language can't be imposed by decree, that what we can ask of the Government is that it develops policies that make clear its commitment to the importance of Greek as a symbol, as an economic value and also as a bridge to the Lusophony and the strategic sector that it represents. We don't want to defend the supremacy of the Spanish. We don't agree with either single-linguism or Spanish mono-linguism. What we stand for is an effectively bilingual society, made up of people with ability and knowledge in both languages and who use freely and in respect of which it seems most timely. We can't accept his initiative. He asks us to apply legality when we're already doing it. He asks us to derogate the decree of multilingualism when, of course, we have explained to him many times why we cannot do so. And we don't because, above all, it's not a consensus initiative. You're asking us is a plot. Since you can't do it because you don't have the majority of society, you're asking us to apply the linguistic policies of nationalism, and we can't do it, because we don't want to let our voters do it. But, Mrs Pontón, if you really want – as you say – to defend the Greek, to join the consensus, to stop blaming the others and to join in the consensus that is repeatedly demanding Galician society, which was offered by the president of the Union, who offered you the former advisor, who offered you the current councillor and the parliamentary group. If you really want to speak in favour of Greek, you join the consensus, if not, what you're looking for is discord and language confrontation, where we won't find each other. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u217	Thank you very much. Parliamentary group responsible for the motion. You have the floor to Mrs. Pontón Mondelo. Give a voice to Mrs. Pontón Mondelo's chair, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u218	Thank you very much, President. I thank both the Joint Group and the AGE Group and the Socialist Group for their support for this initiative. And I'm sorry that once again the People's Party wants to turn a serious debate on language into a problem of characterizing BNG, demonizing nationalism and ideology. By the way, demonization in which the People's Party actually practices a lot, because you, with its authoritarianism, are unable to understand that we can think differently. But you're also against all the people who went out on the street, who defended another language policy. Look, we're not here today voting if you're from the BNG, we're here today voting on an initiative that has a number of points, which are all taken from the General Plan of Standardization of the Greek Language voted in this Parliament. The derogation from the decree does not appear in that plan, but did the Council of Culture ask it, asked the Royal Galaga Academy, asked him all the unions, asked him for thousands of Galicians on the street, and told us that we want to break what consensus? The only ones who broke a consensus on language were you, who dynamited the general plan that this Parliament approved. So don't come and tell us to defend... No, what you're defending is the Spanish tax policies in this country. [[Applause]] You want to keep a fixed picture where the Greek is a discriminated language, and you tell us that that's normal and that's what the Greek society wants? I really think it's an insult to all the people who are claiming and defending a different language policy. They continue to fear that the education system guarantees equal competition. I don't know, we can – if you want Madam President – one day make a projection there, on that screen, of what the survey says, the assessments of the Galego Institute of Statistics. One in five under 15 says they can't speak in English, whose responsibility is that? Does the education system have anything to do with it? Does Junta have anything to do with the education system and language skills of this student? Is there freedom when a part of this country, young people and girls, say they can't speak the English language? What is happening here is a policy that clearly goes against our language, in which you, above, intend to make us look like fools and tell us that we have to accept the linguistic policy to annihilate our language. Look, we at the BNG have quite clear that Greek is a huge potential for this country, which we need the language to have a dignified presentation letter in the world. Because a people who deny their identity and their language will never be respected in any way. The PP has caused enormous damage to the language...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u219	Finish it, Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u220	...with that false and lying speech and attacked the prestige. You just did it here: the Greek dies because the rurals die. Of course, it's the clearest prejudice you're still exercising against our language, which is a modern language.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u221	Thank you very much, Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u222	But you're still giving us an ancient, conservative, transnoitated view of language. But we're going to continue to defend it, and like Otero Pedrayo, we want to leave the country where it falls for the country where it dawns. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Motions vote
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u223	We passed the motions. We started with the motion of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mrs Soneira, which no amendments were tabled. G.P. Motion vote. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da María Soledad Soneira Tajes, on the judicial proceedings involving various senior positions of the Junta de Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 31 votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u224	We voted for the motion of the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, at the initiative of Mrs Pontón Mondelo, to which no amendments have been tabled. G.P. Motion vote. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo, on the performances to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in connection with the use of the Greek language. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 31 votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u225	We continue the development of the agenda with point 4 of non-legislative proposals. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. Together, at the initiative of Da Carmen Iglesias Sueiro, on the request of the Government of Greece to the Central Government for the reduction of VAT in cultural activities
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u226	No amendments have been tabled to this non-law proposal. You have the floor to Mrs. Churches.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u227	Good afternoon. Thank you, President. Spain is the European country with the highest cultural VAT. In fact, it's the only country in the region that equates cultural articles with luxury, which obviously makes culture a prohibitive asset for most of society. Norway applies 0,%; Switzerland, 2.5,%; Belgium, 6%; Netherlands, 6%; Greece, 6.5,%; Germany, 7%; France, 5.5,% –just lower – Finland, 10%; Ireland, 9%; Italy, 10% and Portugal, 13%. Spain rises from 8% to 21%, a rise of 13% suddenly. No other sector has experienced such a rise, because if the EVI went up for everything, the percentages are not the same. A clear torpedoes of the current government, which comes to power with a bundle of simplicity in the cultural sphere. The grant is bad, private initiative must be brought in in in this field. This is, of course, an ideological option, an early one that only proves to be demonstrated, but the PP had won the elections by the absolute majority and it didn't need to prove anything or convince anyone. So, subsidies don't disappear because that would be the work of Atila's horse, and we still have laws and interests created in this country. There's the alternative, that famous private initiative that, as it is received, does what you want with your money when you have it. The Government can only activate this field with a mechanized law which, of course, promises. As this ineffable law behaves like Godot – never arrives – the result is an abject destruction to the lack of foresight, which does not even demonstrate the premise from which a liberal label government could break. Of course, the government says the law will come, and maybe do it in this last year of legislation, election year in which the promises made in the campaign are accumulated; but we need to know what it will be like, how it will do it. The reality illustrates the fact that the Ministry of Finance – whoever sends it – never trusts such laws. And he also sees culture like a mosquito that pummels and the one that gets handcuffed, and that's it. In fact, we speak of an uncommon blouse between ministers, Montoro – Hacienda – on the one hand, and Wert – Culture and Education – on the other. Wert is known – it is notorious, it is published – that he intended to arrive at the Goyas with a real download – he claimed, he intended – and not with an unfulfilled promise, like the previous year, with respect to the cultural VAT; that of Mr. Wert blocked and denied by Finance. But we're in an election period and the government is sending critical messages on the subject, such as the recent statements by the director of the Government's Office of Economics, Álvaro Nadal, who, the other day, very recently, stated that he saw reason to debate a download of the cultural IVE. President Mariano Rajoy, in an audience, opens up the possibility that the VAT will be lowered, but he says: "Today's date is not going to be made the decision to lower the cultural VAT." Well, as government politicians unravel the daisy, IVE's down, not the IVE's down, the world of culture is mobilising. Pascual la Fuente, president of the main association of music promoters, speaks of the Day without music, convened for May 20 of this year, as a form of claiming a 4% download – which is what this initiative also calls for – of the IVE for concerts. Remember, May 20th, full municipal campaign. And so the main associations and live music promoters announce in simultaneous press rounds in Bilbao, Madrid and Barcelona the call for a musical blackout. It must be remembered that the concerts have lost 30% of the attendees since this uncommunist rise. The Congress in Defence of Culture, which began last 5 months in the Athens city of Madrid, on the initiative of the Platform for the Defence of Culture, stated in its manifesto: "Culture is a common heritage of all humanity and is an heritage part of the identity and dignity of the citizenship of a country. It is a good with symbolic value, a right of all and a decisive factor for an integral and sustainable development, knowing that respect and appreciation of cultural diversity are indispensable for social dignity and the integral development of human beings." Major Zaragoza, who inaugurates this congress that lasts March 5, 6 and 7, says that the event aims to hope and show that all human beings are equal in dignity and able to create. The opening day is announced another mobilisation for April 19th – we know how the world of culture is –; an artistic and demanding festival in Colón, Cibeles and La Puerta de Alcalá under the motto You are a culture. They should take advantage of this initiative that comes here today, to this House, not for the sake of everyone's culture, but because we are in an electoral period so convulsed and uncertain that the vows of the world of culture, and of lovers and lovers of culture, will be fundamental to the People's Party, because the rise of 21% makes it difficult to access the culture of the workers' layers; it impedes the development of the cultural industry; the lack of competitiveness of the sector in Europe – it is recognised by the Government by changing at the last hour the VAT of the art transaction on the occasion of the ARCO Art Fair –; the dismantling of an economic sector with potential and ability to produce quality jobs, and, on the other hand, all this leads to a lot of job losses. So, PP's gentlemen, PP's ladies, I think this is the ideal time for them to approve a 4-percent drop of cultural VAT. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u228	Thank you very much, Mrs. Churches. Intervention of parliamentary groups. [[Pause.]] For the Galician Nationalist Block, Mrs. Pontón Mondelo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u229	Thank you very much, Madam President. Well, since the Galician Nationalist Block, we're very critical of how the Spanish tax system is articulated. In particular, we understand that the EVV is a clearly regressive tax in all areas, that it is an unfair tax and that clearly all these tax reforms that have been made in recent years, far from seeking progressiveity, are reforms that they seek every time the opposite; that is to say, they are paid regardless of what the purchasing level is. I now thought it was surprising that the People's Party, which is leading us here justifying many cuts in rights – because not everyone should pay the same for the services, but based on their purchasing capacity – continues to maintain so strongly that the EVV is part of one of the most important pieces that the Spanish State has to record. Because here clearly Amancio Ortega pays equal VAT than a worker or a worker, and pays equal VAT than a person who does not have any kind of income. So, to see if one day the People's Party really makes itself clear or we have a divine revelation that makes us undo this mystery of how they may allude to progress when it comes to cutting down rights that are established, and yet in this kind of clear and manifest case, look elsewhere and have no such concern. In any case, what is also evident is that there is a very serious problem in the Spanish State in relation to the VAT which is being applied to cultural products. Culture is a luxury product for PP, because they apply a VE to it nothing more and nothing less than 21%. This negative data has to be recognised to the government itself. But I also want to point out that this situation is much more difficult for cultures that are clearly reduced and discriminated against in the Spanish state, as is the case with Greek culture, and there we have data that make it manifest. We have data from the Galician Culture Council, which I suppose will give the People's Party some kind of credibility. What do you tell us? That there is a very important reduction in cultural consumption in our country, according to a study by the Council itself. Between 2008 and 2012 there is a reduction of more than 30 million euros, with negative growth rates in the cultural field. Tell us also the Galician Culture Council that, from the point of view of access to culture, so that the Greeks and the Greeks could access the same cultural products as before the rise of the VAT, they would have to spend 32.7 million more, which I suppose you will know is a serious problem in a recession context; in a context where many people are unemployed; in a Greek context where many people have pensions from most of their families. So we see how you are, from the People's Party, putting an increasing strain on cultural development and also on access to culture, and this has serious consequences. A couple of data this minute and a half I have left, data also from the Council of Culture. In 2013, 800,000 viewers were lost in cinema, the worst film attendance in the last decade. And an anecdote that I also think it would be good to study why it is produced in Galicia: we have the third most expensive cinema entrances from all over the Spanish state. We also have other very worrying data in a cultural sector that is very relevant to linguistic normalization, such as the theatre sector. Since he ruled the PP, 50% of the functions have been down, 50% of the viewers have also been down. I imagine this is also a free decision of the Galician society and the producers, who decided not to do any more theatre in our country, and people, freely, also decide not to go to the theatre. We also have some of the worst data from the edition of the book in English. By the way, according to the information, the one who has most reduced the edition of the book in English is Galician Union, who knows he published a lot of books. We see how there's a very important bet, right, on the part of the Greek Government, for everything that has to do with our culture. In short, it is seen as the increase in VlV, what it does is to increase the difficulties of access to culture; it is another stone for the development of this country's culture, and unfortunately...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u230	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u231	...the only thing we've seen in this Parliament was like the PP, on several occasions, voted against the lowering of cultural VAT, and they have no kind of strategy, because it's known that you're here to say yes to everything that comes from Madrid. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u232	Thank you very much, Mrs. Pontón. Parliamentary Group of the Left Galician Alternative. Mr. Ron Fernández has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u233	Good afternoon again. It is not new that we will agree with this initiative, since the Gaga de Left Alternative, because since the beginning of this legislation we have already warned of the disastrous consequences that would have for the culture that increase from 8% to 21% of VVV. We even used the metaphor of the obscurity; that was the obscurity that came out of the submarine of Minister Wert and was destined to bury the boat of culture. And so he did, and so he does. A farce in an unusual neoliberal philosophy. Regressive taxes, which enlarge and expand the gap in inequality, which degrade public services and deny citizenship rights, because the right to access to culture is a denied right when it is set aside, precisely, to all sectors of the cultural event. 21% of cultural VE is therefore a direct attack on culture as a public service, and denies the right of access to culture, which you become luxury. That's why we demand and demand courage and that we do not play with the rights and public services, just as you are doing, the People's Party; just as the president did in the State Government, who could announce in the State debate the reduction of the cultural IVE to 10% but did not do it for a simple question of electoral profitability, and that's outrageous. And while that happens, the sector fades. In just six months of application of this regression tax, live music dropped by 35%, cinema by 25%, theater by 30%, viewers by 30%, and collection was 20% less. In just six months, in a study conducted. In Germany – it has been said here – the EVI is 7%; in Portugal, 13%; in Italy, 10%; in France, 5.5%. Ah! but the first 140 representations have an IV of 2.1%. Why? Because that's when to recover the investment made in culture, and then, when there are benefits, you can tax more. That's working for culture and protecting it, but you're not willing to do it. Norway -- it's said -- has a type of 0%. Why? Because culture is understood to be a public service and therefore comes out of taxes, direct taxes, tax progression, because that is where the redistribution of wealth is carried out. And services, access to a public service, is wealth. The consequences are all well known. I'm unemployed in the sector. Some data are chilling, because, in fact, company managers themselves talk about they're only hired at the weekend on Saturday. They work for four days a month. And some companies are subject, like that company called Risk Grants, which precisely to draw out the absurd IVE you have, 21%, the cultural IVE, in front of the porn cinema or the porn magazines, which have 4%, they saw themselves in the strategy of selling a porn magazine for 16 euros to give the entrance to their show, which was the magical prodigious magic.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u234	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u235	I'm going to finish. There's almost a minute left. So we understand that what you are doing is taking the situation of culture to a limited situation. It's worrying, all poles, both creation, production, distribution, enjoyment, access, all poles in the sector, cultural fact, are subject to this absurd 21% rule, to this absurd tax. Besides, it's leading the sector to assume a precarious regime that even leads them to accept self-exploitation, which is where you're driving perfectly, with your rules, to society as a whole. To accept self-exploitation is to see us subject to the dilemma: to have a slave job, a precarious job, or to lose that precarious job.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u236	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u237	And that can't be the life of the Greeks and the Greeks, of the people who live in this country in the 21st century. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u238	Thank you very much. Socialist Group. Mr. Caamaño has the floor. Give a voice to Mr. Caamaño's chair, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u239	Thank you, President. The Socialist Parliamentary Group will support this initiative, which has to do with the rise of a tax, agreed by the current Government of Spain, on an issue – in this particular case the issue of culture – which, as has just been explained, has been truly devastating to a sector. Not only a cultural right and a right of all Spaniards, but also for a productive, industrial and creative sector in Spain. I want to remember, right now, President Rajoy's words when he was in the opposition, claiming that going up the EVV was a real nonsense and that this couldn't be done with a fair economic policy. That famous phrase of: They just got up to the EVI from the chutes to the children. For in this case the rise was not, unfortunately, in the showers; it was no less than in the culture of all Spaniards. A truly scandalous climb, 21%; the highest – it just saw – existing throughout Europe. A cruel rise with the sector, deliberate; a sector that not only identified itself with the eyebrow – that perhaps explains this terrible measure in the age of culture – but also the Minister Montoro was in charge of saying, "very careful with what you do, that I'm inspecting and monitoring you," in statements in the Senate. That was the position adopted by the Government of Spain, which is responsible for that tax, not the Government of Galicia, is true. But what was the position of the Government of Galicia? It was not expected, of course, that he had to protest being the same political organization to which he governs on both sides, but he could at least put in place some of the skills he has to prevent that dislate of measure from producing more pernicious effects on an already minority culture of his, like the Galician one. From the lines of the opposition, present in this Parliament, a number of initiatives have been introduced aimed at precisely stopping the impact of these measures on the Greek culture. From formulae such as those of the cultural bond, which was made in the Basque Country and Catalonia, to formulae of compensation on the theatre network, on publishers, mechanisms of greater presence and public help, etc. The answer was always the same: the absolute majority voted in the same direction as the Government of Spain when they climbed the VAT, against the culture of Galicia and a sector that is in grave danger. It's all over Spain, as you just said, and it's particularly in Galicia. I used to mention in my speech the situation in the book publishing sector in English. You can't compete with 21% of IVE, it's practically impossible. What to say about audiovisual and audiovisual products, subject to that same level of tax, which is a real luxury tax – such as what existed before on certain products – applied to culture. Now the government itself, after this catastrophic experience in Madrid, tries to shrink, and already announces that, as the economy seems to be a little better, we can actually lower that tax. But the damage is done. It occurs as with the legal fees. People who couldn't defend themselves will no longer defend themselves in court. Cultural, Spanish and German companies, dismantled, will no longer exist now, although they lower the EVI by 21% to another more reasonable element. The processes of impulse and investment in some sectors of Greek cultural production, which had been done at previous times and which were beginning to be present in international markets, remained in this, in attempts, in efforts. That IVE ended with them, and the passivity of the Galician Union was complete. He didn't remember any of them, and he carefully followed the policy carried out by the Government of the State. And this is the reality we've found ourselves in. A government, with a president at the front – and I'm talking now about President Rajoy – concerned about the IVE of the chuches but not concerned about the reality of culture. And here, in Galicia, a Union, a Government of Galicia, concerned about supporting Madrid's policies, and justifying them to its electorate, rather than defending the interests of this country. Here we go! For all these reasons, the Socialist Parliamentary Group is going to support this initiative, which aims to reduce, once and for all, this unjustified and totally unbalanced rise in VAT in the field of culture and that the Greek Government, as nothing has done before, at least now has the opportunity to do something and defend the interests of the country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u240	Thank you very much, Mr. Caamaño. People's Group, you have the word Don Agustín Baamonde.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u241	Thank you very much, Madam President. It is true, Mrs Iglesias, that in 2011, in the face of the serious economic situation that was being experienced as a result of the crisis and the mismanagement of it by the previous Government, the Government of the People's Party was forced to take a series of measures to deal with this very serious situation, including, indeed, the increase in VAT, also for culture. In these measures, of course, their application results in a significant impact on sectors that are immersed in them, including, of course, the cultural sector. That's true, but it's also true that you can't blame the VAT alone for the problems that are going through the cultural sector. Culture was affected by the crisis because it caused a decrease in cultural consumption; it was affected by the crisis because it actually caused a decrease in public resources devoted to culture. But it is also true that culture faces a specific crisis of factors associated with its operation; for example, the lack of speed in adapting to new circumstances; for example piracy; for example, excessive dependence on public sector subsidies; for example competitiveness, which is particularly felt in the distribution sector. Experience shows, Mrs Iglesias, that when imaginative and creative formulas are sought, IVE does not slow down success. There are, for example, cinema data for the previous year. And here are also the figures from the Galeg Culture Observatory, which show that despite the crisis, cultural employment has steadily grown in Galicia since the fourth quarter of 2012, using now more than 29,000 people. My attention is drawn to the complaining of some of the rise of the VAT, the rise of taxes, and to the contradictions of President Rajoy and the People's Party. Man, you'll have to remember that those very ones who complain were the first to raise taxes and it was also the ones who climbed the VAT. Of course, as they sometimes say that raising taxes is left-handed, and other times they say that what is left-handed is lowering them, because, of course, you will have to think – as in Cantinflas –: up and down, that the only thing left is laughing. [[Murmurs.]] They're talking about popular party contradictions. Listen! but tell those who have social equality and exemplaryness as their flag, but the only one who can present as an example of this in their management is, for example, the abolition of property tax, scandalous pay to bank managers or the pardon also to those bank managers themselves. Mrs Iglesias, this is not the first time this is about the issue of cultural VAT in Parliament. On repeated occasions, we have indeed shown a negative position. We have expressed it because we understand and understand that this tax rise met an economic need that demands solidarity from all sectors, including the cultural sector. We still think the same thing, apart from the fact that the reductions in one sector can always cause comparative harm. But it is also true that the Government of Mariano Rajoy has always said that, at the moment the circumstances made it possible, it would opt for the lowering of taxes. Right now, with a recovery of 1.4%, with the creation of 400,000 jobs, it seems that this time has come to raise the tax drop, and, even in some media, the fall of the IVE has been adventurous, which has, at least immediately, denied the President of the Government himself. That's why, Mrs. Churches, we share the bottom of your initiative, although we don't share exactly the way. We share the background and we add up to the call for the download of the cultural IVE. But we can't vote for it because it fixes that download, puts it on a rate of 4%. We believe it is right to urge the Government to adopt solutions within its competence. What we can't, precisely with regard to that competition, is to impose on you how you have to do it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u242	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u243	So we would vote against it, except that, if you delete that reference to the exact type of 4%, and for the sake of a united consensus, we would be willing to vote in favour of it...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u244	Thank you very much, Mr. Baamonde.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u245	...which would logically require the agreement of all groups of the House. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u246	Group author of the non-law proposal. You have the floor to Mrs. Churches.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u247	Thank you, President. Mr. Novoa, I'm very surprised that you don't remember when Esperanza Aguirre and Mariano Rajoy, when they didn't rule yet, made a left-wing campaign with street messes, and so, very militants, against the rise of the IVE. There's hemerothec of images, there's hemerothec, buf!, enough. So I remind you of that custom that you have to say something in the campaign and then forget it. Because look what they did to her! With regard to subsidies in art, which an art without patronage has no future, has no hope, I also want to nuance you that the rise of indirect taxes is always an insolidary rise, a rise that goes against most of the citizenship. And then I also want to remind you that there's a good data. You didn't tell me, but there's certainly a good data. Because the billing, due, of course, to which we are a little better economically – a little, very little – over 2014, the net billing of live music was, Mr. Novoa, look at that good news, a 9.76 greater than the one recorded in 2013. But, despite my giving this data, I also have to tell you that the music promoters carefully celebrate this news, because, according to Pascual Aegean, president of the Association of Musical Promoters, it is not due to a good management of politicians, but to the fact that in 2013 the background was touched; there was no more where to go in the wrong direction. So, of course, if you touch the bottom, the only thing left is to go up a little bit. And also the impact of stage rotations like Rolling Stones in this data, which were not seen in the first year with the IVE at 21%. And it's also due to a minimal recovery that the state is experiencing. I believe that this tax that you apply to you, that, of course, I am not willing to negotiate because it seems to me that culture should not have imposed any, that it had to be completely heritage of citizenship, without needing these stories. But, well, with regard to that, I don't. And then I also remind you that the porn industry pays 4 percent of VAT and flowers as well. Okay. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Tell him I'm so sorry that you don't support this initiative. And finally, I just have to say one thing: Wert, excuse me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u248	Thank you, Mrs Iglesias. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Alternative Glaga de Left, at the initiative of Da Eva Solla Fernández and D. José Javier Ron Fernández, on the action to be taken in Galicia regarding the financing of treatment with Sofosbuvir for patients with hepatitis C
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u249	This motion for a non-law has been tabled with an amendment by the People's Parliamentary Group of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u250	To formulate the non-law proposal, Mrs Solla has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u251	Thank you, President. More than a year of marketing authorization for Sofosbuvir and we have to be here defending the obvious, defending the right to life, to the lives of the already born, of the Greeks and the Greeks, human beings, thousands of human beings, who suffer from hepatitis C in Galicia, and to those whom the Central and Autonomous Government continues to deny them the possibility of not dying or having access to treatment with medication that could save their lives. From the very beginning, people with hepatitis C had to endure the failure of respect for a central government and an autonomous government that moves between lying and improvisation. The arguments used vary almost always, almost every day, and 12 people die every day, and you keep making excuses – or they follow popular governments by making excuses – to ignore their competences. We have warned here, from the very beginning, of the profit of the business. We have warned here that Bush's government-related multinational Rumsfeld – that government of the United States, that state that promotes very good coup d'états, but very bad the health of its population – has had millions of benefits since it started marketing antivirals, and that our government continues to facilitate the business despite the fact that it has already been sold to us by Tamiflu. The World Health Organization itself, which is not for Marxist purposes, is warning that the costs of fixed prices will make it difficult, and they are already doing so, access to treatments, not only here, but in the rest of Europe and the world as a whole. The advisor attended all these months as a stone guest to secret negotiations, because we don't know much about them, about the ministry, without demanding access to the medication of the Greeks and the Greeks, without requiring that public budgets were not conditioned by a multinational. Because the reality is that you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, which the truth is that we are quite few right now, and the Government itself, are giving us choice between something wrong and something worse. We have to choose between handing over public budget to multinationals or leaving people untreated for a predictable death. Their management is impeccable, impeccable to cast aside the debate of the generics and, above all, to leave their citizens and their citizens in the stake. The reality is that, at this point, the Government of the State, which says it is so transparent, hides information on the prices agreed. I don't know, we don't know, at this point, how much this medication will cost us, how much they agreed. Why don't we know how long this treatment was agreed upon with multinationals? Why don't we know how long that deal will be maintained? Or why don't we know how many treatments are going to buy? They laugh in the face of sick people, both you and the central government, and of course they give them their backs. Rinse, as Mr Feijó did in the past full, failing to do so. The past full of truth is that the only thing he gave is pity and courage. Unfortunately, on the one hand, because as president it is unusual that you can represent here the size of ignorance about the situation these people are living and about the treatments and the work that is being done from the ministry, and that you have to bring absurd and populist arguments to conceal your failure of political arguments. And he carries because he was able to come here and say that if he was investing a lot in many other diseases, like saying that sick people represented some expense for the Health Council and the Government, without taking into account that really what he's talking about is the right to people's health, which is a fundamental right and also a human right. He was able to assume a double transplant of a person's liver. Something unheard of! Which denotes deep ignorance or enormous violence and verbal insensitivity. That day he said, moreover, that everyone and everyone would be given the treatment, something that Mr. Rajoy said today too. The reality is, lies behind lies and insults after insults, time passes and sick people don't have that time. You know that and it seems they don't care. They were able to even lie to the people on the platform, voting against the initiative they were told to vote in favour. And by the way, they've been waiting for 80 days for Mr. Feijóo to meet and listen to them. The reality is that the ministry has thrown itself into something disgusting, which is to use the suffering of these people in the middle of the electoral precipitate. First they set up a expenditure ceiling of 125 million euros for the purchase of Sovaldi; insufficient, obviously. Insufficient to the prices that seem to have negotiated the Government and that we unfortunately do not know about its lack of transparency. A spending ceiling that obviously does not guarantee any kind of investment. But it just seems now that Mr. Alonso, Minister of Health, has tried to make an announcement of precipitate saying that they would treat thousands of people and that they would expand the spectrum of people who might be admitted to treatment; that is yes, without budget and without possibility that no one can access that draft plan for hepatitis C, because we have no access to it. Zero euros seem to be put from the Ministry of Health. The Government of the State therefore leaves its supposed compatriots to their fate, and besides, still above it, irresponsiblely passes the hot potato to the communities, which are now the ones that have to solve. He spoke solemnly of 727 million euros in three years. The reality is that these EUR 727 million, first of all, are not only for Sovaldi, as I was saying at the beginning when you were referring to that 125-dollar expenditure ceiling, but now they are for all treatments; that is, we have even less budget. By the way, you will also have to come to the Government at some point here to clarify – and we will present initiatives for that – that will happen with access to Daklinza and Olysio, the other two multinational drugs that are needed to complement treatment with Sovaldi. Secondly, these millions are also not a proper budget of the ministry, but a soft credit for the communities. That's, we're going to have, still above, to return it; that's to say, it's the Greeks and the Greeks who are going to have to pay from their pocket the money that leaves them the ministry. And Mrs Mosquera attending as a stone guest to all this; that is, she continues to exercise Galician health skills. From this announcement it was two weeks ago; two weeks after Mr. Feijóo had said that the treatments would be given immediately. Eugenio, the one who has two transplants – be lucky! according to Mr. Feijóo – has been waiting since December for his treatment; since December he has prescribed it. A lamentable situation. Eugenio, and the rest of Eugenios in Galicia, have to endure their advertisements, their disgusting political game in the hope of people who only want to be healed and able to live. The Government is dissociating itself from its ability to negotiate with the Central Government. They should explain why they don't use that mandatory license for generic production; the central government has the capacity to do so. Because they notice that the law allows them to avoid this patent in cases of emergency, or government use. Saving people's lives is an emergency. We'll bring more initiatives to talk about this, but today what we wanted here is to bring an initiative asking for something that we think is emergency: that you already have a game to treat these people. The Greek Government, the Health Council, always defends in budgetary debates that there is a fund of continence that it is necessary to be so crowded, of more than 70 million euros – although this year they cut it a little, I think I remember that 3 million euros – because from time to time there can be a health emergency. This, ladies, is a health emergency. Therefore, in view of these criteria of gravity, we ask you to set up a section of the Council, dependent on this contingency fund, to treat people who are more serious, regardless of which, of course, you continue to apply for the assumption of your responsibilities to the Central Government and the financing of medication, as is your obligation. You, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party – we will not vote today, it will be tomorrow, I suppose – can make thumbs up or thumbs down to save the lives of these Romans, otherwise they will let them still have to say what to say about "the ones who will die, greeting."
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u252	Intervention of parliamentary groups. People's Group. Mr. Santalices Vieira.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u253	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon to all and to all. I will comment on the amendment made by the People's Parliamentary Group, which is an amendment in which the necessary mechanisms are said to be established to ensure the necessary economic resources to treat patients affected by chronic hepatitis, by hepatitis C virus, and secondly, to ensure treatment with new antivirals of direct action to all patients, based strictly on clinical criteria and under indication and follow-up of professionals experienced in the management of this disease. This is our proposal; a proposal, of course, that I hope you will accept it because it is very reasonable. There are certain proposals, Mrs Solla, that you make – or certain statements, better said – that I think they are inaccurate, that I think they can be a product of – that since you registered this initiative until today – things have happened that have changed this in a way I think it is important. First he says that this drug is not funded, and this drug is funded. Second. You're talking about a cost ceiling of 125 million euros and it's not exactly like that, you know it's much more. I say... you also say we lied to him. My partner already explained it. We never lied to the platform. We received the platform, and what we did was to raise awareness of your problem and get an interview with the health advisor, an interview that has already been held. Therefore, things in their place. This drug is funded in its F2, F3 and F4 stages, and there will be cases in fibroses that even finance F1 stages. First, therefore, the clinical criterion; this has no discussion. As far as funding is concerned, funding is clear. We're not going to touch the continence background. Funding is established by three mechanisms. First mechanism. Those autonomous communities that did what they had to do, which was the deficit system, could have access to zero interest within three years. Transfers to autonomous communities involve health care. What are we talking about? What is the drug given to them, or are we discussing what the transfer process was? Therefore, Galicia has accomplished, Galicia welcomes it and it will have zero euros to pay for the money that needs to be brought forward for the treatment of these patients. Other communities. Those who don't do it, for look, one year only to return that money. And there will be another group, such as those in Madrid and the Basque Country, which have a financing system similar to those of the communities I mentioned earlier. The Secretary of State for Public Administration said a sentence – and I put it between you because he's a political leader who speaks and says a phrase that seems interesting to me – "Hacienda – you know it well, Mr. Beteta – will not put limits on the amount of drugs to be purchased. That's what the doctors have to put on." The Secretary of State says so. So it seems to me that this is the key. Then let's take a look at how the situation in Europe is, even though there's a lot of controversy about it. The situation in Europe is said to be included – although there is controversy – Luxembourg, Switzerland, Belgium and Spain. The head of the service portfolio, the basic portfolio of the national health system – words of the system – says: Britain, Germany and Italy have refused to incorporate into public funding the latest innovative drugs of hepatitis C. This is the size of the Spanish health system, and we are going to head. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Leave that, you to the economy, you to the economy, not to this...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u254	No dialogue, Mr. Santalices. Not dialogue.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u255	Stop, go. We know... it's time to go...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u256	No dialogue, Mr. Santalices.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u257	It's time to go, Mr. Beers. Take it easy. We're on a serious subject. We're talking about how a drug is financed and we're talking about Spain leading the best health system in the world. I'm telling you that in the United Kingdom it's not financed, and what do you say to that? I'm telling you the countries of Europe don't finance it and you're putting me back, man, please! This is a serious enough issue. That's what the president said the other day, what he meant. Here you can do three liver transplants four heart transplants, that's the size of our health system. And with regard to a question that I want to touch, look, we support the patients, who we're not going to support, is who, using a patient platform, makes perverse politics for... Yes, for the use of a certain training, because that is to instrumentalize what patients are affected for the benefit... [[Interruptions.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u258	Go finish Mr. Santalices.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u259	...by a political situation. We're not going to back them up. We support the patients. That's our obligation. So that's the amendment you've got. If you accept it, fine. If they don't accept it, we're going to vote against it. Nothing else. Madam President. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u260	Thank you very much, Mr. Santalices. Joint Group. Mrs. Churches.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u261	Good afternoon again. Ladies and gentlemen, our lives are in your hands. Today you are given another opportunity, with this initiative, to exercise your parliamentary work in line with the most fundamental human rights. Nicolas Salmerón Alonso, President of the First Republic, resigned from his office in 1837 because he refused to sign death sentences. Salmerón has always put his moral imperative, ethics, ahead and above other considerations of state, party or convenience, and expresses: "The death penalty, as a matter of penalty, will never admit it because it is contrary to my conscience, to my principles and to the principles of democracy." An example of political and moral integrity. Politicians have an obligation to order the reality in which we live, and put it into effect, according to the mandates that the citizens have placed on them. Almost no politician is a philosopher, and the excessive immediacy in his actions is determined by the stress of permanence at the post, or the recovery of lost places, rather than by altruism or empathy, as it would be desirable. For a politician the weight of the voice of conscience is very light, and, of course, always compared with other servants such as party discipline, for example, in which that consciousness itself is diluted and ends up disappearing. Ladies and gentlemen of the PP, setting a limit or a price to a life is very difficult to justify. Patients and citizenship have witnessed terrorized – if, terrorized – this so political and so little philosophical debate about the right to medication for hepatitis C. Perhaps today, after hearing their consciences after having voted not to all the initiatives presented themselves in favour of those infected with the virus, they realize that what they did was vote on the consciousness of perpetuating themselves, leaving aside the depth of the matter that they bring to their hands: life. I think that the show of the whole that they attended and were forcibly evicted the representatives of those infected with the virus was very definite, and even though this Member would rather not have happened, maybe these things should happen to know what we're getting into. They have another opportunity today – I repeat – to listen to the voice of conscience and do not press the button of not when voting. They vote in conscience! I know many of you would like to. They abandon party discipline once and for all to make themselves available to the will and rights of citizens they are supposed to represent! And if they don't, they prepare and parapet well into the shield of indifference that they show in the face of pain and despair of the patients, in the face of impropriety, insults and disqualifications that they will hear from the mouths of the indignant and also from their own conscience, if they are left. Thank you very much. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u262	Thank you, Mrs Iglesias. Nationalist Block Galego. Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u263	Good afternoon. The assurance that we have the best health system in the world, Mr. Santalices, is very good, but the goodness of a system is enshrined in the ability to respond to the needs of the people it serves. Right now, the drama of hepatitis C has faces, names and surnames, as you know. Some people seem to like you and others don't like you, but they're all dramas with names and names. The reality is that you, the People's Party in the Government of Madrid and the People's Party in the Government of Unity, have made a whole series of promises and a whole series of deadlines that have consistently failed. If you here today were able to tell us if you've already asked for the credit that Madrid so magnanimously grants and Madrid collects... we pay, Madrid collects, and then we have to thank them because they give us a credit at a modical price, and also Galicia better than the best, because as it is done, let it be cheaper, cheaper. Yes, but it's a credit, Mr. Santalices. While there are billions of euros, thirty-one billion, to rescue the motorways of Madrid, for example, or billions for banks, it turns out that for the sick there are lines of credit. A small difference in nuance, of which you are very pleased to have a government in Madrid that you have to ask permission to put in place skills that are from the German Government; skills transferred, as you well said. But instead of exercising those skills, and instead of looking at how to solve the problems of the patients affected by hepatitis C, they patiently wait for Madrid to decide, that Madrid decides that they can ask for money, that Madrid decides who is given it and who is not given it. Meanwhile, the lady councillor, waiting for Madrid to tell her what to do, and Mr. President of the Board as well. And you're applauding with your ears! That's the reality. Here you weren't able to tell if the credit was requested, for how many sick. How many sick people are there right now in Galicia, Mr. Santalices? The advisor still says he doesn't know. The advisor still says he doesn't know. Where did you then get the data that Minister Alonso gave on his press turn so mediatic and so fantastic. Did you make us up? And if she invented them, the counselor wouldn't tell her: look, that's not true, that in Galicia we just don't know how many? We don't have data and the ministry gives us global data. I mean, he made us up. So, the advisor doesn't know how many we have, how many you're going to give them. We don't know at this point if credit has been asked, when they're going to start dispensing them, how many are going to be dispensed, but you're going to take it off your chest here, it's your job. You take your chest out here. With reason or without it, it removes its chest, because the reality is that today everything is as dramatic as it was a year ago, which has been over a year. I mean, patients have been around for 13 months. I remind you that in January 2014 the European Commission approved Sovaldi, there are other drugs. I mean, from that one to today, 13 months waiting for them to be dispensed. On January 12, they set up an expert committee. That committee of experts meets, delivers a report, they have it in quarantine for two weeks. Then, on February 27, the minister, with a lot of publicity, presents it, doesn't make it public. We go back to the concert with Povvisa: we don't know the literal content because it's nowhere. On the way there were remaining things that were in the first presentation. I mean, a whole series of issues, but the reality is that today the Greek patients are still exactly the same as they were a year ago, they are exactly the same as in January. They're not giving up. The commission, that commission that is the one that decides whether or not they give the drugs, is still in force. Or isn't he still alive, Mr. Santalices? The commission that decided who was given and who wasn't? I mean, a whole bunch of disincentives that, of course, makes it obvious that the People's Party once again does what best it knows how to do: propaganda, smoke and lie brazenly. Meanwhile, there are still people who suffer, Mr. Santalices, people who are dying, while you come here to take your chest away but not to give solutions. Because, if you were able to explain to us today how, when, how many people, and what budget they're going to make...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u264	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u265	...you would have some credibility. As he didn't, the only thing they can do is, the next time we get an initiative, we vote again that we don't, and turn on the side of those who do business with people's health, not on the side of sick people.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u266	Thank you very much. Socialist Group. Mr. Vázquez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u267	Good afternoon, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, I have been trying for many days to find out why you are trying to make such a decision in all parliamentary debates, and, after giving you many rounds, there is no other explanation that you have to be fooling yourself. I don't think you – I know you all – have coldness, gravity, saying you don't want to treat hepatitis C patients. So I'm going to take these few minutes to try to convince them, Mr. Santalices, that even you, in that parliamentary euphoria, have to go over and take a look at it. Look, these are people, but we're going to talk about numbers, because gentlemen, the numbers don't match. The World Health Organization says there are 900,000 cases of hepatitis C in Spain. You and I know there's a record of infectious diseases, and that with going there we have to know how many there are. Data handling all collectives: 30,000 patients diagnosed. What do you say to WHO? That normally more than 40% of infected patients still don't know. We could be talking about 50,000. WHO numbers, not mine or yours. Let's go to the solutions. President da Junta, Minister, previous minister: "We will treat all patients who need it." You're lying! 'Cause we can't treat them, 'cause they need everyone. This treatment cures hepatitis C to everyone, F1, F2, F3 and F4. Why are there commissions? Because the medicine costs what it doesn't cost, what it's not worth. If it cost 1 euro or the drug, we treated the 900,000. Then stop saying things. What we're discussing is, with the economic resources we have, how many we want to deal with. And then we all started talking about it. Don't say any more – I think it's an insult – "we'll treat everyone who needs it." No, that's cheating. Let's see how many we're going to deal with. Look, this is not a political debate, it's a mathematical debate. If we have 727 million for all of Spain and we're 6% of the population, even though we take everything that's ours! They're 43 million euros, aren't they? If the EUR 43 million divides them between what costs an average treatment, which is €40,000: Sofosbuvir, Diclassadir and Ribavirin – the ones that are giving, the ones who are giving – because 43 million of the 40,000, how many come out? 1,084 patients. Is that what it is? Three percent of what we have. In how many years? In three years. If we divide in three years, 300 of them come out. They're fooling people. And you're certainly wrong, too, Mr. Santalices. And so are you. So the people up there just wanted to fight, argue, do something! Because they, when they get out of here and hear the president of the board say, "We'll treat them all"... The other day in Madrid, when Minister Alonso's nonsense says, "It's all done," I saw on TV how they were crying with joy there, everyone hugging. "We did it," the patients said. But the next day he reads the headlines, "They sold us smoke." Because we have to split up and know. The Counselor will have many shortcomings, because she can have them, but divide and multiply and add and remain sure she knows. There's no more to take what happens to Galicia, divide and know what number we have of patients, and we have to get there and say, listen, gentlemen, let's be honest, listen, ladies, we don't have any money to treat them. Let's start around. And here comes the initiative of the AGE Parliamentary Group: Look, we have no money, but there are contingency funds. If this is not a continence! What is the continence? Where should we spend that continence? So, ladies and gentlemen, rather than going to a parliamentary confrontation debate, these are numbers...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u268	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u269	... – Finished, Madam President – these are data and are numbers of coldness and terrible cruelty. So I come here today to ask everyone here? You, Mr. Santalices, as you almost always speak very well. You do these debates and say, see who votes against this?Oh, my God! Because you don't go down the ground, you go upstairs.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u270	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u271	... –Finished, Your Honor – All right, I'm sorry, but it's a very important thing and you have to give me a few seconds. End by saying, "Economic criteria are necessary." Like the one who needs it? What does Beteta say you need? 727 million for all three years. If that's what you need, don't say 727, whatever you need.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u272	Thank you very much, Mr Vázquez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u273	Ladies and gentlemen, I appeal to common sense. Stop being self-deceptionful. They're doing a lot of damage to a lot of people. I'm sure you don't want them to...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u274	Mr. Vázquez, stop, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u275	...but they're doing a lot of damage to a lot of people, and we have to take important action. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u276	Thank you very much, Mr Vázquez. Group author of the non-law proposal. You have the word to Mrs. Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u277	Mr. Santalices, before his defamation, arguments; and before his political mediocrity, arguments. And I'm telling you because it seemed to me from the lowest here to say that a platform of people who are very sick, and who are at risk of dying, can be manipulated politically. That's the worst thing you could have said in this House. But you do. When you don't have political arguments, what they bring is lies, as they brought in the previous plenary. You said you were going to pay 0 euros. That's fake! I told you in the intervention, it's a soft credit, which you don't have to pay is interest, but you have to return every euro that the ministry leaves to the community. In this case we are the Greeks and the Greeks who have to pay for their incompetence and the government's lack of management with the multinational itself. You, and the central government itself, could agree to a countermeasure agreement and jointly purchase in the European Union, but that doesn't say, that doesn't say. They'd rather stay out. You and the central government could issue a mandatory license, but they don't want it either, and they don't want to say it here either. There could be a generic, and even, in the latter case, the patent could be expropriated, because there are actually laws that allow it. You are, and you are, the central government, protected by legality, but it seems, here, the only important thing is the satisfaction of that debt. That's important, and for that you have amended the Constitution. You have just brought him to this debate. It's disgusting to me, firstly, to talk about manipulation, and secondly, to put the debt on citizenship. Because, unfortunately, if the treatments are going to be so expensive – exactly we don't know how much because they refuse to give the data – it's only their responsibility, that they didn't want to produce a generic or negotiate to make it cheaper. So less to manipulate and less political mediocrity. You keep playing your game, you keep laughing at people. Hepatitis C's plan, which is going to come in on April 1st, we don't know its contents beyond the press notes and what the minister himself says. And it turns out that at this point, a few days earlier, you call for day 13 to the people on the platform – very well! – without any possibility of making any kind of claim. That's how you treat them, the lack of respect that you have for these people who are really sick, a plan without budget. I'd like to know, to finish – because I see you won't support – if you sleep at night and if you're calm and calm when you press that button. You know that people on the platform were thrown out of this Parliament, they were released the other day from the Verín Hospital and the other day from the Piñor Hospital because of the lady...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u278	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u279	Eloine, Feijóo's sister. I don't know if you sleep at night, but, of course, if this doesn't seem like an emergency to you, I don't know what it must be.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u280	Thank you very much, Mrs. Solla. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. by Alternative Galaga de Left, at the initiative of Da Yolanda Díaz Pérez and D. Antón Sánchez García, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in connection with the proposal to abolish 130 jobs in the Rural and Sea Council
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u281	No amendments have been tabled to this non-law proposal. You have the floor. to formulate his proposal, Mr. Anton Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u282	Good afternoon, everyone. I don't know if they sleep at night, but here, in the evenings, more than one I think they do. The Galician Councillor, the Council of the Rural Environment, has just transferred a proposal to the new PPT trade union organizations proposing the amortization of 130 employee and employment facilities. Of these, 60 squares affect comarcal agricultural offices, 30 of the Public Defence Service against Forest Fires, also affect research centres, etc. Today in Galicia we have 250,000 unemployed, boys and girls from the most formed generations of our history emigranting, looking for opportunities to live in places where, of course, they don't have it easy to get out of the way either. Almost one third of the workers and workers with jobs don't earn the minimum wage, and the poor worker's figure comes up, the one whose work does not guarantee him dignity. After seven years of the start of the crisis, the defeats are our daily bread. With you, poverty is advancing, and the lack of expectations is the point of a large part of the population. At the same time, the country suffers from a large demographic indentation; each year we are thousands of fewer Greeks and Greeks. Rural is getting empty; in the vast majority of rural areas aging is the general tonic. And this is not a catastrophic version of AGE, I'm quoting an expert from Earth Tea, Agustín Baamonde, who in the previous debate said that one of the causes of the loss of Greek is because rural is getting empty and old. Well, I quote him to state this question. These problems will be aggravated if you consolidate the model of the dairy sector by what you bet, where many more jobs will be lost in agricultural activity and will not be replaced by industrial transformation to products of greater value added. The forest model imposed by the People's Party is also low in terms of employment and added value. Galicia, despite having a huge agronomic, agricultural and forestry potential, does not produce enough to feed. Every year hundreds of millions of euros are paid to bring food that we can't produce, as long as the furrows are abandoned. Universities are going to dance from students because they don't have a professional way out of their country, but this country is sitting in the middle of their intelligence and effort in it. The country is calling for the energy and talent of youth to be taken out of this situation, but their policies expel us, they disband us. There's a huge waste of capacity because those who rule us don't believe in the country and don't defend this country. But another country is possible, we believe it. Another rural is possible, we won't get tired of saying it. It is already there, in individual initiatives that swim the counter-competitive against this administration, mainly. Agriculture, mountain, rural tourism, cultural and ethnographic heritage, wind, water, are future opportunities for this country, what happens is that we are governed by those who don't know or want to make that power a reality. There are sufficient elements to change things, but if we want to develop a model with the future, it will inexorably pass by the existence of a system based on the application of knowledge in our reality. If we want to consolidate today's agricultural activity by adapting it to the current reality, with the transition to land-based land-based farming and agriculture, reducing its dependence on thought and inputs; if we want agriculture to move towards sustainable and quality production; if we want to switch to quality wood production; if we want to develop energy self-production based on renewables; if we want to develop sectors with undeveloped potential, such as ecological agriculture, fruit farming, milk transformation into dairy products, we need a system of knowledge that goes from university to farming, livestock, beekeeper, through research centres, training centres or commercial agricultural offices. This would be the most urgent bet the Government of the United States has to make: to invest in its talent, in this country's talent. Have an idea of the future for this country and its rural. On the other hand, what we have is the continuous dismantling of the structures created in previous years: training and agroforestry experimentation centers, the comarcas agricultural workshops, the university, the upper polytechnic school, the research centers. The system is very simple. When there is a drop or a retirement in any place, usually this vacancy, systematically, is not covered. They also become entangled, every possible trap, those who like their work, those who have implications, so that it's impossible for them to apply from day to day. They themselves qualify this Government for cowardice and incompetence. Leave and incompetence on the part of the people who express themselves to us by most of the workers we have been talking to in recent years, even before we are in this Parliament. Therefore, knowledge may not be by itself sufficient condition, but if necessary, for our future. Now the Rural Middle Council wants to take another step on that road towards the desert, proposing the depreciation of 130 squares in the Council, which affect – as I have already said – the regional agricultural offices, research centres, other types of departments and the Public Defence Service against Forest Fires. Yes, in the Public Defence Service against Forest Fire 30 squares are depreciated. At the same time, yes, private companies deal with helicopters worth 3.9 million plus VAT. The subcontracts that the Galician Union carries out with private companies, in order to carry out continuous and structural jobs that are their own, almost always end up in judicial judgments that declare workers as undefined non-fixed, which is aggravating compared to staff annotated in the recruitment lists. In addition, a public service is effective in its development of more demonstrated activities. Privatization and outsourcing are less effective. There is no technical argument in favor, and it only obeys the defence of the business of certain companies. The model that advises common sense, experts, is a professionalized, coordinated model, not a hypercomplexed system, with people with poor preparation and more expensive. For example, recruitment with INAER of the Council, denounced and investigated by the Procurator's Office for Prevarication, which affects the finger of millionaire contracts. And the middle rural means, yes, millions to hire or subcontract companies that do business with fire. This amortization proposal also affects the Mabegondo Agricultural Research Centre, amortizing several squares, when already in 2013 research squares had been amortized. This reduction of researchers endangers funding for research projects due to lack of personnel to train teams. The worst thing is that this paralysis and dismantling doesn't get past one day or another, it takes a lot of time to recover. Technicians and researchers take a long time to form, projects take a long time to mature, and you're leaving land burned down for many years. Not to mention that kind of generation cortex you're provoking. There was a retirement from that generation that began with the center in the late 1970s, generalized retirements that were not returned. With this path that you light up, the future is much more difficult, not to talk about any more of the dismantling of services in rural areas, already severely punished by these cutting policies. We need to change our course, to have a design for the future of public services supporting rural development for development plans of sectors with potential for the future, plans for incorporating young people and girls in a comprehensive way, land mobility plan, support and agrarian, financial and marketing advice. The rural employment farmers, of whom we were talking about before, must be the local agricultural workshops. A plan for our university, for your research and applied research. Put the young men in whom you invest time, effort and money to train them to work for their land, and give less business to businesses outside.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u283	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u284	That's why we, with this non-law proposition, ask the Board to dismiss that idea of amortizing 130 squares and switch to a diametrically opposite policy: to give people work to apply it in this country. Listen to me, it's much more profitable even economically. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u285	Intervention of parliamentary groups. You have the floor for the Mixed Group, Mrs. Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u286	I want to begin by congratulating the People's Party on their coherence. The coherence that maintains its decision to abolish 130 jobs in the Council of the Middle East and the Sea with its policy aimed at the disappearance of the Greek peasantry. Dismantling advisory services, training and agricultural research is exactly what they have to do to contribute to the destruction of employment; not only of public employment in the hinterland and the sea, but also of the destruction of employment in the yellow field in general. Focusing those experiments primarily on the peripheral administration services is giving a new stockpiling of death to many Galician communities. His proposal for the elimination of public employment lacks all rigor and justification. This amortization of 130 jobs shows a clear ignorance of reality and a lack of critical analysis of the needs and workloads of the Council. As an example, the Quiroga office, which has only one technician and an administrative officer, is depreciating a square. Who will look after the office when the technician has to leave? Are you going to do the technician's administrative work, stop doing the tech's? Do you think that's how you meet the needs of improving the quality of our agriculture and gain? The depreciation of jobs in the Rural Media Council is particularly damaging to peripheral services, which are fundamental to agricultural development and the fight against fire. And this is where the Government concentrates the elimination of jobs. 60% of the amortized squares correspond to comarcal agricultural offices and forest districts. This reduction in employment precisely in peripheral services is due, on the one hand, to centralization of tasks; and on the other, to privatization of services. It will increase the workload of people who are hired to unbearable levels, which will also prevent them from providing a good service. And I have to congratulate them again: congratulations for the coherence they show when they suppress public employment in fires; a measure very consistent with their privatization policy and the creation of private business sources with essential services for citizenship. How do we think we are eliminating forest pawns in Ourense areas, at high risk of fires, to hire brigades by other means, even heli-transported brigades, for an amount of EUR 8 million instead? It's only understood if your goal is to return to the precarious and caciquil recruitment model, through the municipalities, to end up privatizing the service. And not just in fires. Its privatization policy reaches multiple services related to the rural environment: they withdraw personnel from the farmers to soon buy plants in private companies; they eliminate cleaners and cleaners to hire cleaning companies; they remove staff from the agricultural offices to justify their disappearance and that the work is done by collaborative entities. Right now, in this context of crisis, when the rural environment is seen as an opportunity for people who have lost their jobs in other sectors, it is time to run a strategic plan for agriculture that contemplates the production of quality food on the basis of family farms. Instead, you cut staff and services. They do exactly the opposite: permanently depopulate the farm to leave it in conditions of being exploited by multinationals of mining, food or energy. The earth as an object of speculation. Mr. Núñez Feijóo goes on to make the rural environment look like folklore printing but without peasant communities. Sounds like a lie to the president of the Pearls! The abandonment of the rural environment will bring with it the abandonment of the mountain and the aging of the population, unsustainable family burdens for women and higher rates of depression and suicide. A country without a living rural environment is doomed to food dependence, but it looks like this to the PP government doesn't matter. We bet, and we will also vote in favour of this initiative, because we defend a living Galician rural environment, a farm that has as its main function the production of food. Because we don't want our rural environment to become a wilderness. Because we believe in the capabilities of our land to have an advanced agriculture that is environmentally friendly and that allows for a high quality of life, therefore our support. And we ask the People's Party not to kill our land as it is killing our tongue. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u287	For the Galician Nationalist Block, Mrs. Paz Franco has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u288	Thank you, Madam President. I don't know if the odds exist. It would be a philosophical debate which I think is not the time to have right now. But, of course, those who have drawn up the agenda have precisely wanted us to debate this initiative, in which we question the removal of 130 jobs from the employment relationship of the Rural Council, precisely the day on which we had the debate in the morning and take into account the amendments for the return of a law which, according to the councillor, provides public services, improves public services, will provide the public services with the greatest capacity to benefit and work on the basis of the interests of citizens. And also, curiously, the week in which we are going to debate in the Commission on the quality of public services law, which we are also going to do, is to increase the quality of public services. We insist, once again, that everyone knows – except the People's Party, for whom 50 is more than 180 – that the elimination of jobs in public administrations is absolutely incompatible with maintaining the level of public services to the people and that it is incompatible with maintaining the quality of public services. That's right. I think the things that are empirically counterstable hardly have discussion. Specifically, here we are talking about amortization of jobs. And, of course!, sometimes, when we sell to the citizenship that we charge public officials, it looks wonderful because we seem to be charging ladies and ladies who are on vacation all year round. Here we are talking – practically throughout the administration is so – specifically of two areas that are of great importance to our country. We're talking, on the one hand, about the comarcal agricultural offices, which are – and we have to say it roundly – practically, and at this step they're going to be, the only public service that stays in the neighborhoods because you've all been loaded from the liquidation offices to the comarcal centers, and, on the way we're going, they're going to be nothing more than the comarcal agricultural offices, and if they keep amortizing jobs, they're going to be empty. Today there are many agrarian offices in which they don't rest or fall due to illness or retirement or any other kind of staff-related continence. This motivates that when people go there to do management, when there's a deadline, for example, to present improvement plans, or help to incorporate young people, or any other kind of help from the CAP, there's no one there who can explain to people how they have to cover the form; that they have to put in a context where CAP aids are in permanent mutation, on a permanent basis, and there's neither administrative nor technical staff. It must be said that it is not the first time, since you rule, that in some commercial agricultural office – and it happened in Orders, in particular – they could not certify aid from the CAP because there was no technician, and to the Council, this government that does more with less, was absolutely indifferent to appointing a technician to be able to certify the aid to farmers and farmers. That's what they care about. But, indeed, 30 jobs are also loaded in the Forest Fire Prevention and Defense Service. I will not enter the question of privatization, of which we have spoken on many occasions, I will speak of the dismantling and irresponsibility of a counselor who dismantles the Public Service of Combating Forest Fires, who sends to the mountain brigades, on many occasions – who had to be formed by seven people – with two or three people, absolutely sold to the mountain. Sold not only because it endangers their safety and integrity, but also because they are so ineffective, because I suppose none of those present would dare say that two or three people are a brigade. Two or three people are two or three possible victims of a labor accident. And then we have to stop the Middle Rural Counsellor from coming to regret that there are careless people who burn the mountain! Indeed, there are careless people who burn the mountain, but something will happen on a device when one day March 9th, after raining all the holy winter, and when there is still snow in the whole greenhouse...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u289	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u290	They burn 200 acres, 80 of them on Nature Network. They should fall in shame, because something has to happen on the device besides there are unpredictives. You don't always hide...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u291	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u292	...after their good luck, and don't keep dismantling the device, because as in this country one day it stops raining regularly – and it happens sometimes, even if it doesn't look like it, years ago in which it happens –...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u293	Thank you very much, Mrs. Paz. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u294	...to see what the consequences are! Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u295	Socialist Group. Mr. García García.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u296	Thank you, President. The state of decommissioning of public services is something that has been given for six years – i.e., since Mr. Feijóo came to the Government – and it is not exclusive. Well, it's true that in this council, it's particularly significant, but it's not exclusive. I mean, it's not happening here either. Something very different from what's going on in the rest of the administration. Therefore, Mr. Sánchez, what has changed is that they have now put it in writing. I mean, the 130 squares have been gone for six years, just now they moved him to the paper; that's all. It's not that they invented it now, the 130 squares were vacant. Because, of course, the rural environment -- it's something I've already said, that this PP gets the square of the circle -- is that, after six years of these vacancies, it's already in many places, it's not even going to be missed. We're talking about places – as Mrs. Paz put an example – like Orders or Lalin, we're not talking about Cuspedrines downstairs, where there's nothing left and surely the Agrarian Extension doesn't make sense anymore. We're talking about a person in Lalin, a technician in Agrarian Extension, one. One, in theory in Galicia's most gauntlet. I mean, from there, turn it off and let's go! That's the situation. And that's been going on dragging for six years: the absolute dismantling of all public services. So the Rural Council wouldn't be alien, and, if it fits, the situation is more dramatic. And after deflecting, after emptying of content, after nullifying those services, I repeat, what is already the maximum achievement is that today, as they no longer worked, as the help of the CAP already had to do them out, as the plans of improvement already had to do them out because in the Agrarian Extension there were no technicians, as a number of procedures were no longer solved or could be solved in the Agrarian Extension, indeed, in many places it will go to undiscovered. After these six years, in fact, not covering vacancies, it allowed – as is logical, it cannot do anything else – that when people were also vacated in central services, they had moved to the central service vacancies and the administration's peripheral services remained deserted. Besides, there were deserts without any kind of reorganization, which is even more serious. Well, it's not because, indeed, as we have said here and as we have said, this councillor doesn't care about anything at all. Therefore, if in a land extension, although it was eminently gauntlet, it was touched that three were retired and that two were sick, for there was one left. And perhaps in another agricultural extension, where there were no such retirements and they were not sick, they followed the five. I mean, it's been completely quiet and without any kind of reorganization. Dino, moreover, in the RPT itself. The planning of the Council is not due to a technical problem or a technical approach. Indeed, in the agricultural extensions, which was a fundamental piar 40 years ago to develop the agricultural sector in this country, the map has changed in those forty years, and it would therefore be rational that this council would have proposed a new distribution map for these agricultural extension offices. But no, the RPT is what it does to say: it's okay because we've amortized 130 jobs because they're already vacant and they're not working. First he destroyed us for not covering those vacancies, and now he says that, indeed, since we are doing so and there are no such workers, let's put it black on white. That's what the Rural Council is doing. And of course, Mr. Sánchez, you're talking about research here. But what research, what counsellor's technicians, if the advisor the other day to me would discuss the data. On the other day in the milk sector, in the dairy sector, in the most important sector in this country, the advisor trusted a technical report saying that the owners would pass 35 million liters. Today, the ministry finally resumes that there are two. I mean, a small technical mistake, 35 to 2. And because of this technical report, the advisor, but the deputy general, who doesn't talk to the case, dedicated himself to going through Galicia saying that this was going to be a disaster and that the glovers couldn't continue to produce -- based on a technical report. Of course, you're here to tell me how important research is and that there are technicians. What's more, there are technicians! He doesn't care. In the case of the fire protection service, we can't be surprised either. It is clear that the People's Party is betting for the destruction of the united and own service of the Galician Union to extinguish fires and that it prefers municipal brigades. What are we going to talk about about the Mabegondo Research Center? What matters is we're doing another lab now in Mouriscade. We spent 4 million and dismantled Mabegondo's, we don't know very well why, to do some analysis that Mabegondo had been a pioneer in this country thirty years ago. And it's okay! Then, of course, apply the logic to all this...! is that there is no way to apply it! The only logic you can have is that you don't care about anything here...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u297	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u298	...in fact, to the advisor now that we're from 35 to 2, that the herdsmen had to sell the cows and that they stopped producing. She did what she had to do. So for the counselor, where they retired four and only one, it's all right; you're still there and the four are not covered. In fact, if the posts weren't going to be covered, bad or good, it's almost best to put it black on white and at least assume it. Because until now what Mr.Anton said – remember – in all initiatives is that it was a lie. So far, those 130 who now say that there's to put it -- because they're not actually working and they haven't been working for six years without work -- what they told you and me in the Commission was that it was a lie. Now, at least, they wrote it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u299	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u300	So welcome be the misfortune! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u301	Thank you, Mr. García. People's Parliamentary Group. Mr. Balsairo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u302	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, the fact is that we are used to listening in Parliament's rostrum, by the opposition, to great words. Today, once again, as it could not be otherwise, the opposition also devoted us to the majority group of this House, to the group that supports the action of the Government, the People's Group, by decision of the Greeks and the Greeks, great words. Words that, with only hearing them, speak of the very bad things that we are in the People's Party. They accuse us of everything, here we hear everything. In the exposition of reasons they accused us of austericity, of annihilation of public employment, of suffering from a privatising fervor. And those who took us where they took us to the forest fires, right now they also want to teach us how to do it. And now it's thanks to time, because it rains. Then I don't know what it was, but then they took us, when Galicia was burning on the four sides. Shame on you to come to Parliament's rostrum to teach forest fires! [[Applause]] After listening to you, at the time of truth those words are empty, they are hollow, and they have absolutely no content. These are arguments that in the People's Group we already know them by memory because you repeat them again and again when they come up to Parliament's rostrum. Repeat over and over again, but when the time of truth comes, they are not able to act consistently with respect to what you preach yourself, nor to acknowledge the efforts that you have been and that you are currently making the Government popular, which, from the beginning of this long crisis that you – you, those on the left – have denied – has been playing a role in rationalizing the staff of the Administration. You're also talking about the depreciation of jobs at the Rural Council. All right, let's talk about it! But what they don't clarify is that it's the fruit of developing a new relationship of jobs, an RPT, where the staff needs and functions performed by employees were analyzed center-by-centre, and according to these analyses these solutions were taken. And also managing staff strictly necessary, to facilitate their professionalization. And I say it's you who are not consistent because in Santiago you're criticizing the People's Party, and it turns out that we're going to the official figures and see how Galicia, Galicia... [[Murmurs.]] I see you're not interested in anything. Of course, I'm not surprised they don't care about anything, because the figures speak for themselves, and you, when they talk about numbers, they don't care about numbers. You're interested in noise, which is what they live; but also the Greeks know that noise can hardly live with you, so they don't vote for it. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Murmurs.]] We see how Galicia is the community that has kept its number of troops more stable. The drop in Galicia is 0.6%, the average drop in autonomous communities is 1.2%. By setting an example, in the middle of the crisis, in 2013, the number of troops in Galicia is also reduced to half the average of the autonomous communities. The highest reduction in force in Galicia in recent years is in local administration, 7%, and in State administration, 4%. But besides, ladies and gentlemen, while Galicia kept its relatively stable staff, where until a few weeks ago the Socialist and Left United Party ruled, in two years it had 18,000 less public workers. What does AGE want us to say here? Let's do what you guys did where they ruled? Is that what they want to tell us? What do they want to tell us? What do we do in Galicia about those policies that you applied where they ruled? That's what you call it? What do you call it? Well, look, while the measures taken by the German Government in recent years, the Union has established its troops plant, with the same evolution as the average of the autonomous communities, the Union today would have 3,000 fewer troops. With the same evolution as the local administration today, U.S.A. would have nearly 5,000 fewer troops. If you apply your model, the model where you rule, the Board of Andalusia, if you apply that, then Junta would now have 5,200 public employees less than at the beginning of the crisis.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u303	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u304	And the Junta – it's over, Mr. President did everything the opposite. We're on our way to recovery thanks to these bad policies that you say. The Union continues to take measures in Galicia to improve the situation of public employment. In order to strengthen the stability of staff members, competitions – in this case of transfers – that facilitate their right to mobility are under way; and since 2009 more than 6,800 squares have been offered. More than 300 applications have been submitted for part-time retirement of workers; a process, ladies and gentlemen, which is entirely voluntary. And the German Government has driven different offers...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u305	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u306	...of public employment. We knew – and I'm finished, Mr. President last week at the OPE of 2015, where we will multiply by four the offer of the year 2014, in which we passed from 273 to 1,163 squares... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u307	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u308	...and it's about the best public job offer...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u309	It's over, it's over...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u310	...from the year 2009. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I know you don't care.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u311	Thank you, Mr. Balsairo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u312	...because you live from smoke...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u313	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u314	...and fireworks, and we live from numbers.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u315	Thank you, Mr. Balsairo. [[Murmurs.]] Group author of the non-law proposal. Mr. Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u316	Mr. Balsairo, the clearest evidence is that the People's Party has no future project for the Greek countryside is that they put you as spokesperson on these initiatives. Because you're not going to go into history like that deputy who brought up a lot of questions for the future of this country, but rather talk about things that are not of interest, to "you more" to total political marrullerism. That's your characteristic as a Member. You were talking about what we're witnessing a very long crisis. Well, it'll be too long because you're ruling, because you've come in here to get us out of the crisis, in theory. And if the crisis is tough, it's because you couldn't get us out of the crisis. You were talking about rationalizing. Mr. Balsairo, if you had known the reality of comarcasal agricultural offices, agricultural research centres, you would have known that what you're doing is not rationalizing, it's a linear cut of staff without any criteria, without any priority. We understand that if we could make another model, prioritize staff in places, remove others. But no, it's linear!, it's a complete dismantling because you have no idea of the future for rural people! We don't want to make the policies of Andalusia or Extreme, we want people to stop emigration, we want young people to stop emigration; we want them to stop leaving rural; we want them to stop leaving the agricultural area of this country; we want the mountain to produce; we want to produce enough food to supply this country and not have to buy out; we want to give jobs to young people and girls. What did you say? What are you guys doing for that? I'm not going to beat them because you systematically invent them, it doesn't say one way, as Mr. Garcia says; you invent the figures. What I know is that I went to training centers: Sergude, Guísamo; I went to comarcas agricultural workshops in Ribeira, Padrón, Arzua, Ferrol, etc. And when I get there I see that there are no staff, not to do jobs as they should do, to dynamize the comarcas, to go to the farms, to advise people on their own exploits, not even to do bureaucratic work! that you outsource, and spend a lot of money on hiring companies jobs that should be done by public workers, which would be much more efficient, even, under the economic criterion. That's the reality! You ended up with one of the country's best research centers, which is Mabegondo's Agricultural Research Center, just when the livestock sector needs to investigate with corn, foragems, with the practitioners, to change that model that the advisor says he wants to change, produce on a ground basis. How will they produce on earth if no one investigates crops, investigates production, etc.Is that what you're talking about? And that the advanced countries Germany, France, the United States, are fools and invest in research only the public, Mr. Balsairo? Do they have to do it? No, they do it because it's essential to have a future in this country. And you in fires can't teach a lesson, Mr. Balsairo, you can't teach a lesson. You're killing flies with cannons. We say a third...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u317	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u318	...of the budget of the Middle Rural Council to put out fires, and every year more. That is indeed a wasteland, and not as the German Forest Plan said, that every year should be reduced in extinction and expanded in preventive policies. You're completely doing a policy of cowardice and incompetence. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u319	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of Mr Abel Fermín Losada Álvarez and two other Members, on the actions to be taken in relation to the so-called electric self-consumption support fees and the regulatory development of the net balance
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u320	Two amendments have been tabled, one from the Joint Parliamentary Group and the other from the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u321	Mr Losada has the floor for the defense of the amendment.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u322	Thank you very much, Mr. President. With his kindness and chronological amplitude...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u323	For everyone.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u324	That's why. The truth is, the People's Party always brings me progress on the lines of knowledge. I had two truly illustrative flashes this morning. The first was to pass in the field of education of a clearly economical discourse to a new advisor with an absolutely atrocious individualist ideological discourse, which questioned social determinism. I don't think they live in the street, do they? I don't know very well what they're talking about. And then there's a problem. In fact, yes, yes, of course, it's enough to see... just to see Opus Dei's schools and Coia's schools in my neighborhood. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Exactly social determinism. Or call it another way, Mrs. Prado, call it whatever you want. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] The beaches? It has to do with the fees. It has to do with the interests of those who have economic problems. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u325	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u326	That's what I am, Mr. President. And also exactly the statistical effect, because we also heard how there was more poverty... because maybe it's a Freudian-type fixation, it's possible. [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]] In any case, statistical effects also have serious problems. Mr. Feijóo said in this plenary that there was more poverty in 2007 than at present, and everyone knows that this is a lie. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And it has also been said here that the most equitable teaching, according to the PISA Report, is that of Galicia and that of Mexico. Anyone who goes to the private schools of Lomas de Chapultepec, in the DF, and to the peripheral districts of the DF, knows perfectly well that they are the most equitable teaching systems. And I'm exactly these scandalous, obscene lies in the situation in which this country is living, that's what I want to talk about; and also about beaches, indeed.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u327	It's time.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u328	All right. Because this crisis that serves to say that there were poorer in 2007, or that teaching is more equitable here than in Finland, also served the People's Party to change the economic model. By the way, the inclust Fernández Currás said the other day at the Hostal of Catholic Kings, not Abel Losada. He said: Spain has already changed its economic model. Which, by the way, is what we've seen saying the opposition here since it started not this legislation, but the previous one. Welcome to the corral, indeed. And, of course, the shift in the energy model. With regard to this tariff deficit of what you are talking about, I would like to recall again the law of 1997 and the year 2000 as the moment when these payments are started that are deferred to companies not to raise the receipts of light and therefore to secure citizens' votes, which is the origin of this tariff deficit. He has three components, as you well know. And it's not true, in addition, that renewables are the most important quantitatively of the three. They know perfectly well that nuclear moratorium has brought about a million-dollar business for electricity companies, because they are still producing, with absolutely amortized installations, energy that is paid at the highest price on the market, as you – at least energy voices – are sure to know. And they also know... yes, yes, Mr. Farinas, yes, yes. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Yeah, yeah, we're gonna be a little serious. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Yes, yes. I mean, they're not amortized, aren't they amortized the Spanish nuclear power stations? Aren't they amortized? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] No, ah! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I mean, they're amortized. Good. And another is the cost of transition to competition. Who had the costs? The electricity companies that have had increasing benefits since the transition to competition process? Listen, but do you really believe, I don't say that the opposition Members anymore, that the citizens are idiots? Citizens read in newspapers every year, in February, the economic results of electricity companies. The costs of transition to competition were an invention to pay the large Spanish electricity companies under hand. By the way, I heard in Commission 6 the other day that we socialists were the ones that we were selling maquially don't know which part of Endesa I don't know who – as you well know – is a member of the People's Group – by the inclus Manuel Pizarro. Yes, yes, there were the costs of transition to competition, which, by the way, continue. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Until when? Forever? Forever costs of transition to competition in the electric market? Will companies always receive the costs of this intended allocation of competition? Who do you want to fool? Then they come here with the renewables. And indeed, it was probably the weakest link in the chain in terms of legislation because they have much less weight in terms of lobbying and political terms, but they had much more economic future than the other sectors, and they know it perfectly. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And within that attack, within that attack on renewables, is the counterpart, which is exactly the attack on self-consumption. And I'm going to read textually the report by the European Environment Agency with the nine points that reinforce self-consumption as – let's say – the most recent energy line at the moment – both economic and geopolitical – today. On the one hand, freedom for citizens and businesses. To you, who are as liberal – both Mrs. Cifuentes and Mrs. Esperanza Aguirre, any of them – this point should be especially satisfactory in ideological terms. [[Murmurs.]] I'd also like you to explain why liberalism here is not, why liberalism here is not. Secondly, because it represents greater independence in terms of allocation of economic resources for families and businesses. In fact, they stop being hostages of companies that are true that they don't formally have a monopolitical character, but in practical terms they end up like this. I don't know if any of you have tried to change the electric supply in your home. You must have the persuasion of a 16th-century Sunday or be Houdini, because it is absolutely impossible to do so. So there's this oligopolie in fact. Thirdly, because self-consumption in those countries in which it is very developed, Germany, Denmark, the Netherlands, finally, in those countries which do not have a fair education, in those poor countries in northern Europe, because, without any doubt, it is an engine for growth and job creation that is very important in macroeconomic terms. The fourth point, because it improves the energy independence of Spain and Europe, since President Feijóo will so solemnly plug into the connection to the Pyrenees, it would be very good to be aware that the less we depend on the natural gas coming in from Algeria, a geopolitical zone, let's say, hot, because we would be in a more comfortable position. The fifth point, which is a clearly efficient and energy-saving vector, is one of the priority lines from the disabling Juncker Plan – but I think it's ignored by ignorance, it's worth redundancy in this People's Group Parliament – I'm talking only about the Juncker Plan, I'm talking about my experience in that discussion on this point. The sixth, undoubtedly, is an optimization in the use of resources. The seventh, the reduction in greenhouse gas emissions. The eighth, the position of technological leadership this country had and which is losing absolutely clearly within what is the international energy economy. And finally, it was part of a new economic model. And I quote the word textually, because when the Government of Zapatero spoke of this, the People's Party – which was the one who was going to let Spain fall because soon they would raise them up – laugh. I insist, text quote. No socialist ever said that, Mrs. Romero. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] No socialist ever, and I'm very proud of that, said the country had fallen for some miserable election. Never! Never! Let's see if we know what we're talking about. Never! And if not, heeroteca, and, if not, heeroteca, Counselor lady. [[Applause]] For what is involved in this initiative is precisely that the Government of Spain and the Government of Galicia support an energy production mechanism that is developing in all the countries of Europe. And, unfortunately, here we are, as if colloquially said, to see you come. And more importantly, the National Energy Commission and the National Competition Commission, before Mr. Rajoy, in this resource optimization, merged them to end up liquidating them -- they were actually going to put a couple of De Guindos nieces in front of them, so that everything was at home -- they said... yes, yes, I don't say anything rare, he didn't name them because he went out in the press, but they were going straight there, to see if we know what we're talking about. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] In fact, these two committees say that the restrictions that are taking place from the Government of Spain to electrical self-consumption are intolerable. Yes, Mr. Christmas, Secretary of State of Energy, said he was going to ignore those reports. It's also a feature, to respect that competency they talk about so much. You see it's not the liberal wing of the People's Party, it must be one of the most interventionist wing. Therefore, since I do not want to abuse Mr President's patience, the only thing we ask here is that the Government of Galicia defends the interests of potential energy self-consumers, both domestically and industrially. It's a very important sector, especially in an area like this, of high dispersion of the population, without any doubt. And, of course, we expect them to be able to plant faces, at least to ask the Government of Spain why the regulation on the operation of self-consumption has not been published in ten months. I know why it hasn't been published.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u329	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u330	Because everything that is self-consumption is less beneficial to the three big Spanish electricians.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u331	Thank you, Mr. Losada. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u332	Well, on the day they can privatize the air, we'll have to pay to breathe and the poor died of asphyxiation for not being able to pay the air. Everything becomes a real deal for the People's Party. And, of course, energy, from the People's Party, is seen as a business, not as a people's right, and how they treat it. So it's already several times that we've been in this House talking about energy poverty, the victims of the Spanish electricity system. The power of the electric oligopolie and the submission of the Greek and Spanish governments is noted in successive legal reforms, always in favour of the masters, of the owners of the People's Party. The scandalous rising from the price of light in recent years has given rise to the need to speak of a new kind of poverty, energy poverty. The brake on decentralised production because of the lack of regulation of the economic regime of the energy delivered, and as a result the brake on renewable energies and the system of premiums and tolls established for the benefit of the electric oligopolie, demand a legislative reform at the state level in the sense of the non-law proposition presented by Alternative Left Galician in the middle of December 2, which the People's Party voted against. But the reasons and interests of the Greek citizenship swindled by the electricians were crushed by the mechanical majority of the laity of the electricians in this House, not by the arguments, that they didn't even have to justify the scam. And I'm afraid the non-law proposition of the Socialist Party, though less ambitious, will be the same fate. I'll support it. The Union is once again refusing to make use of the exclusive powers conferred on it by Article 27 of the Statute of Self-Government in the matter, once again refusing to govern. Refusal to apply European Directive 2009/72 to combat the monopolistic situation in the electricity sector. Only the interests of the electric oligopolie can explain that someone opposes this non-law proposition. Only the power of Gas Natural Fenosa over the board and over President Núñez Feijóo can explain that they consent the policeman and the swindler who sends us the electric. Spoil of natural resources for hydroelectric concessions granted in the dictatorship under fascist legality that have driven out of their homes and lands to thousands of peasant families without compensation, and now there is still aggression on our rivers, with the total absence of correct measures of environmental impact. For example, in the province of Pontevedra we wondered where the ladders had been promised for years for fish in the rivers Mine and Sil. It cheats on consumers, small and large, it cheats on citizens. Fixing a maximum tip for the back-up and developing the net balance policy are measures to support because they are in the direction of promoting decentralized production and renewable energy. Decentralised production vital for our country, vital for small agricultural holdings, vital for consumers, but as it is vital precisely for our productive fabric, essentially formed by pemes, and as it is vital precisely for that citizenship that you despise, therefore precisely paralyze any type of initiative that tries to develop both renewable energies and the decentralization of energy. Even so, I believe that the point (a)of the Socialist Party's initiative remains a little short, so I tabled an amendment which proposes an addition to exempt the electric self-consumption of housing and small installations of power less than 50 kilowatts, precisely because it will mainly benefit the small agricultural holdings of our country and our industry, that is, the peas of our country. If the People's Party really has that good bet, if it really is a real bet on pemes, bet on entrepreneurship and bet on our agricultural production, I hope that today, or tomorrow, they will vote in favour of this initiative. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u333	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. For the Parliamentary Group of the Galician Nationalist Block, Mrs. Adam.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u334	Thank you, President. Good night, everyone. We are going to debate a highly ideological issue, which has been debated on numerous occasions in Commission 6a. And it's good that, in addition, it's highly ideological because it reveals different models of society and different models of production. As the proponent well remembered, this morning we attended a debate about different models of society based on the ideology that moves into an educational system. There is no model of education that is not supported in a model of society that is expected for the future. If we want a market in education, the future will certainly be a market society, it will not be a society of citizens. That's why we're going to talk about the sun tax. I like this concept very much since I read it in the FAES report and now I'm going to use it all the time, if I'm allowed from the People's Party to appropriate these concepts that they use. It's a tax that puts the big electricity on self-consumers, solar and wind power producers to a lesser extent. Only one data: in Germany right now 50% of the electricity needed is solar energy, 50%. It seems to me a very high figure, too, above nuclear energy. If in Germany they have solar energy at 50%, I think in Galicia, I think in the Spanish state, solar energy should have a future. But what did you find this solar energy with? What did you find the renewables with? With the interests of large electric oligopolies, which really represent what the word oligopolius means. I always said I didn't understand the meaning of the word until I understood how to regulate the electrical system. That's really an oligopolie. What is done in the new law of the electric sector? It includes an article for which it is penalized or unentitled that any private person or a small company may have solar plates for production, because it cannot amortise them with the taxes it will have to pay, with that sun tax. Of course, when you look at the FAES report a little bit and you see that the people who set it up are an old Iberdrola manager and another one of Fenosa Union, because you say, man, very equanimous, very objective, you're looking for multiple voices, all the perspectives... Also one of the phrases I like the most is when they say that the problem of self-consumption is not an economic or technological problem, which is an ideological problem, which is why so many people seem appropriate. Obviously, it's a problem of wanting to democratize energy and not be a child of the big electricians. That's why Iberdrola made it very clear that there was a tax to be created, and from there on the Soria minister, who at one point promised that he would develop the net balance, shut up. And right now, as explained earlier, it's not regular. For Galicia this is a tremendous problem, because there are many companies, small businesses, related to the photovoltaics that they closed. There's really a very big insecurity for people who want to put on a solar plate. And clearly, you want to boost a model, yes, you want to boost the model of the big electricity against the model of self-consumption. And this is the clearest example, and we suppose that until the elections pass, that royal decree won't come out, because it's sleeping the sleep of the righteous. In fact, the Committee on Petitions of the European Parliament itself has already requested reports from the Spanish Government, and we are reminded of what is happening with self-consumption legislation. We included an amendment to your first point. The Balearic Islands Community has drawn up a line of subsidies and self-consumption support. We understand that, if you do it in other territories, it is possible to do it in Galicia, so we believe that self-consumption must be supported. We also believe that there must be a regulatory framework for self-consumption. I know that this is not of interest to the People's Party, we have discussed here about transfers of own competences and regulatory frameworks, and it is absolutely not within the ideology of the People's Party, but we reiterate that it would be the solution to this problem. I think the issue of self-consumption is what it gives to talk about models of society. Self-consumption is much cheaper, with much less loss, with rationalization than energy production and consumption. Why is he penalized? Because if you want to keep feeding the gentlemen and some of the ladies who are in the power management teams, who have a lot of political interests...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u335	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u336	...and a lot of interest to the People's Party. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u337	Thank you very much. For the Parliamentary Group of the Left-Galga Alternative, Mr. Antón Sánchez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u338	In Galicia in 2014, 14 megawatts of wind production were installed. The production in this country of renewables suffered a paroon from the coming of the People's Party to power in Galicia, and worsened when it arrived in the State Government. Meanwhile, there's a spectacular historical boom in the rest of the world. The year 2014 was the year of the largest installation of renewables worldwide. This year, compared to the data we have in this country, Galicia, with enormous potential, as much as any and more, Germany has installed 5,800 megawatts, Sweden, 1,000 megawatts – they have a population of 9 million inhabitants – Denmark already supplies 39% of the energy for domestic consumption through wind power. The People's Party can come here to this forum and talk about the evil that the Socialist Party did when it ruled, or either choose to come here and explain why in Galicia, having more wind hours than anywhere else in the state, having as many rivers as we have, having unbeatable conditions for a distributed generation, is completely paralysed this sector. You can choose to engage in a sterile parliamentary struggle or you can come here, be honest and talk about people's problems and how we get out of this situation. And developing a suitable model for this country is as simple as applying two very simple principles: the common sense – which I have so often heard Mariano Rajoy say about common sense – and defending the general interest and not acting in convolence with the large companies that seek to do and are doing a huge business at the expense of all of us. I'm sorry to disagree with Mrs. Adam, but it's not an ideological argument. Ideologically it would be if the People's Party defended the big electricity because it considered it more efficient to achieve goals. He doesn't do it for that, and I'm sorry, but the model in the Spanish state in question of energy – and elsewhere, but in terms of energy – is corruption, it's not ideological, it's corruption. It's just that governments work at the orders of power companies and that model hasn't been broken, it's already from the Frankish regime, and that's right, it's as clear as that. Unfortunately, this is what weighs most on the action of governments, of successive governments. It would be as simple to apply this model as applying the principles of the European directive, as anti-systemal as that. If we're guided by the common sense, the interest of most people, we don't work for big businesses. If we apply the principles set out in European Directive 72/2009, based on the reality of our country, its characteristics, Galicia, the model for our country must be to develop energy efficiency policies, dependency reduction, renewables promotion policies, distributed generation model, energy democratization, simplified administrative procedure for small self-consumption facilities, recovery of rivers, mountains and wind, because they are ours. This requires creating a regulatory framework to allow it, regulating self-consumption. Mr. Tahoces already acknowledged it, said it was necessary. We've been waiting for two years, but we have to regulate it. I don't know why it's not regulated. They don't dare put what you really want to do on the table. But self-consumption must not be regulated in such a way that it is impossible, as the draft presented by the Government of the State would not prevent it, and the simplified procedures must be regulated – a large company cannot be treated as a person who wants to produce electricity for his small business, small exploitation or home – free access to networks, the effective separation of production, transport and marketing activities, and a portfolio, in this case in Galicia, to an wind competition that is dead and serves as a plug for other initiatives that could be working and creating productive tissue. They end up, gentlemen of the People's Party, with the crusade against the renewables. Questions that will never answer here by the representative of the People's Party, who rises today and answers them. Why does the reform of the electricity sector not affect the over-remuneration of certain technologies such as nuclear or large hydraulics? They'll never answer that. Over-depreciated technologies that receive a price much higher than the cost of production, which gives them benefits of 400% and 500%. This is indeed the tariff surplus!, which you are paying to large nuclear and hydraulic companies is the tariff surplus that has been received by these companies for many years, which makes them have far more benefits than their counterparts in Europe, and what makes them able to invest and buy all of Latin America.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u339	Please finish, Mr. Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u340	The pricing model of these technologies is the cause of this farce which is the tariff deficit. It's not the fault of renewables, the tariff deficit doesn't exist. You just want to be at the orders of big companies and keep a lot of people from entering the energy production market and removing consumers from big electricity. But despite his crusade is a lost battle, they set doors to the sea, it is inevitable that the future will be that. The only thing you're doing is...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u341	Thank you very much, Mr. Sanchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u342	I'm done now.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u343	No, it's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u344	All you're doing is delaying and making irreparable damage to a lot of people who could have jobs and create wealth right now. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u345	Thank you very much. For the People's Group, Mr. Santos Regueiro.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u346	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Losada, the data on the European Anti-Poverty Network have just been released, and look at, at the 2009 threshold, the rate of poverty in Galicia was 21.3% and in 2013 the rate is 17.2%.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u347	Mrs. Gallego!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u348	Those are the policies that you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u349	Mrs. Gallego!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u350	...they came applying during the Bipartite and these are the results obtained with the Galician Government of the People's Party [[Applause]] Having said this, I'm going to talk about electricity, because it's more or less what I've seen. I have to say that none of the energy sources can be classified as ideal, because all the methods used to produce electricity have their advantages and disadvantages. Among these energy source varieties, it is reasonable to think that the energy mix, formed by the types of energy used, should be balanced, balanced over the variety, but also balanced over the volume. And this is where serious mistakes have been made in recent years, especially in the last decade. There were several production plant expansion plans that strengthened the system, and when it was very limited, it left that difference to be owed to consumers. The problem, far from being fixed, in 2008 was further aggravated by a strong impulse to immature energy, as was the photovoltaic solar. Premiums were granted that in some cases have reached 460 euros/megavatio/hour. I mean, 10 euros worth of what this energy cost was paid with premiums, and there was also the error of fixing beforehand, the blind, a premium that wasn't in parallel with limiting a top of ability to install. As a result, in a single year, 3,000 megawatts of photovoltaic were installed, seven times more than the government's target at that time, and they were going to receive premiums of 3,000 million euros a year. The cooler, no less, of 75,000 million euros in 25 years. If this isn't creating a tariff deficit, it's not understood. In addition, in parallel to this increase in supply, there has been a strong drop in electricity demand due to the economic crisis, which has significantly aggravated the situation. Here it was not affixed to renewables rationally on the basis of criteria how the increase in demand needed to produce if it was made with more efficient renewable energies, or that, as it was ending the lifetime of other power plants, it was replaced by renewable energy parks. What was done was simply massively implanting clean energies at the base of disproportionate subsidies. Expanding plans were made for the large number of production plants, but plans were never made for the replacement of one energy source for another. This caused a imbalance in the system in two directions: on the one hand it increased energy to the base of subsidies and on the other, it oversized production capacity and, therefore, increased production costs, to such an extent that today in Spain there is an installed energy that doubles demand. In other words, Spanish consumers have to pay for an electric system that is dimensioned to supply energy to two Spains. This economic debt and this bubble in the electrical system is acting as a block against the installation of new ways of generating energy, such as self-consumption in its various modes. And this is the big problem, and not just the big companies, which you always blame. The self-consumption of the Government of Galicia has always considered it necessary to develop it, as a way of generating clean energy, moving from a centralized model to a mixed model in which large production plants live with other small ones closer to the final consumer.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u351	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u352	And so he has expressed it to the Government of the State on several occasions, asking him for the regulatory decree, a regulatory decree that he was unable to see the light with the Socialist Party, because this regulation should already be included in the Royal Decree 1699/2011.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u353	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u354	However, only technical and demand conditions for small power installations have been limited. I also point out that your initiative with reference to back-up fees, that is, a payment for covering the costs of the electrical system in its back-up function, is a preventive initiative. Some publications point to the fact that there will be weight of backup and others that will not. We ask ourselves the question: if you are connected to the system, do you have to contribute to your maintenance? Yes or no? Since this is also a conflict of interest, the answer will vary diametrically depending on who answers. At this point we suspect that the fairest decree would be the one that makes everyone satisfied. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u355	Thank you very much, Mr. Santos. For the author group of the proposal, Mr. Losada has the floor. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Mr. Fajardo, I didn't ask for your opinion. Let's leave the afternoon alone. Mr. Losada, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u356	Thank you, Madam President. Well, Mrs. Prado, the truth is that my reference to Freud was referring exclusively to a methodological approach to the analysis of human psyche, but in any case I apologize if you felt attacked, let's say. Mr. Santos, see if it's possible to understand the poverty rate, because there's no need for derivatives or integrals. Look, it's a percentage of the average income. Therefore, if the average income is lower and it is also concentrated at the upper end – an obvious fact – because the rate of people below that average income increases. I insist, an integral, a derivative or even a graphical development of the problem, any of the three systems is worth, but it's very easy to understand. I've seen that neither did the president of the board understand it. I don't know why they want so many advisers! I insist, I insist, don't get nervous.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u357	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u358	I insist, I insist, that the average income is low, and how, moreover, it concentrates, the percentage of population that is below that average income increases, low – sorry –. [[Murmurs.]] So simple, so simple. No, no, come down. [[Murmurs.]] Of course, I'm sorry not to be licensed in exact sciences, like all of you. But, in any case, that's why in the streets of Galicia there are poorer than six years ago. And just go out to the streets of Galicia, there's no need to make complete, no derivative, no solemn statements in the blue bank of the Greek Parliament. You don't have to. Home!, Mr. Santos, it seems to me very nice to talk about photovoltaic premiums. It's true that they were very high, very high, considering the level of technological development. I'd never hear myself say anything else there. I'd like you to tell us about the wind, because it's the fundamental resource of this autonomous community. And you, between the regulation of the Government of Spain and Mr. Feijóo's wind plan, were evaluated. And the proof that the volatilized is at an invitation that we received I suppose all Members for March 17 in the Town Hall believe that from Aranga to inaugurate an wind park, the first since the year 2006, that corresponds to Manuel Fraga's latest decisions. You dynamiteed the Bipartite plan and literally buried the wind sector under Mr. Soria's regulation. And that, Mr. Santos, I'm sorry you haven't said anything. Look, what is true is that the energy in the month of December went down about 10%, it's true, and Mr. Soria said it was for renewables – hemerotheque –. In January it increased by 17% and Mr. Soria said it was because he played less of the wind. Hey, what are we left with? It's just that they have to explain it to us.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u359	Finish it, Mr. Losada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u360	I don't know if you do, but someone has to explain. Look, you go out there, tell us an absolutely respectable story, but the truth is, Mr. Santos, the three big electricians won in 2014 EUR 7,126 million. And the truth is, profitability... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u361	Finish it, Mr. Losada, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u362	...of Endesa was 45% in dividends on the capital, it's gone! Given that there is deflation and that wages on them are falling...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u363	Thank you very much, Mr. Losada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u364	...to me someone has to explain how this question is adjusted, they have to explain it to me. I don't know if it's an integral, a derivative...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u365	Thank you very much, Mr. Losada. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u366	...or a graphic development, Mr. Santos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-10-DSPG100.u367	We'll stop the session until tomorrow. Good night, thank you very much.
