ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u1	Good morning, gentlemen. Please take your seats. We resume the session with agenda item seven, which is that of questions for oral answers by the President of the Galician Union. He asked Mr. President of the Galician Council of Mr. José Luis Méndez Romeu of the G.P. of the Galician Socialists, on the impact of the new political scenario on the institutional stability necessary to govern the Galician Union
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u2	You have the word, to ask your question, Mr. José Luis Méndez Romeo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u3	Mr President, you have been demonizing government coalitions and bipartisans everywhere for six years, practically in all debates. Now, in the last fifteen days, he's demonstrating convert syndrome, willing to deal with anyone anywhere and even without limits, as his colleague, Mr. Louzán, said, before offering a pact to whom he was up to the eve of the representative of Cuban or Venezuelan policies. Nor is it wrong for Mrs. Aguirre to offer one day a pact to citizens, the next day the Socialist Party and a third day a great coalition, in her words, to curb the Soviets. Hey, what a picture! Mrs. Aguirre, drowned by corruption, erected in a Western sentry in front of the barbarians. Remember that? Pure Frankish scenery, absolutely grotesque. Your friend, Mr. Monago, too, offers to make a deal with Podemos. You, who was ahead, applauded that gallard gesture and during the election campaign yourself offered to compromise one day with Citizens and another day with moderate socialism. After six years of censoring coalitions, now we're told that pacts are in PP's DNA. Mr. Feijóo, I will not call him a forgery so as not to incur the anger of the president, but, at least, inconsistent. What's wrong with you? Is it Damascus's way, and did it fall, like Saul, from the horse? Now do you realize that you've lived a fool and that you've been cheating all your life? Find out the truth now? He's willing to make a deal with whoever he's left, I suppose by programmatic coherence, in the purest style of Groucho Marx. You speak of institutional instability when the only institutional instability is that which causes you, which makes changes in the Union not to change failed policies or burnt politicians but simply to cover holes in the electoral lists. As always, the Union serves the party. You destabilize institutions when you are all day devoted to a self-promotion campaign in Madrid and keep Junta paralyzed, with failed economic policies and absolutely destructive social policies. The country is devastated and you leave a country without a future, without a horizon. Now they say they have a communication problem. Look, it's not like they're telling bad lies when they talk: you said austerity and it was inequality, you advertised recovery and you forgot it was for the minority, you promised rigor and you left corruption. What are you going to do now, Mr. Feijóo?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u4	Thank you very much. The President of the Board has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u5	Thank you very much, Madam President. I am sorry not to know exactly what Mr. Méndez Romeo's question is; but if we understand in Galicia what it is that tries to conceal Mr. Méndez Romeo's. [[Murmurs.]] Mr. Romeo, you asked me what it is, on the new political stage, whether or not it has to do with stability in the Council of Galicia. Your Honor, in the new political scenario, what is even clearer is stability in the Galician Union. What is clear in this political situation that we are living in Galicia and Spain is that there is a stable Government that has a stable majority and that since 2009, that parliamentary majority of the Greeks have increased it in the elections in 2009 and in the elections in 2012. [[Applause]] What is clear, Your Honor, is that we have a stable government, a stable House and that we are now the most stable autonomous community in Spain. So, Your Honor, I am surprised that you are now trying to hide what you will do next Saturday. Your Honor, of course, the coalitions are in the PP DNA. In fact, this party is a central right party that comes as a result of different parties that have joined long ago to make a party that was born after the Constitution and which is the largest right center spectrum party that is currently in Europe. [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Your Honor, you speak of the coalitions and you say that we are now interested in the coalitions. There's a big difference and when a party loses the principles and loses the values it doesn't distinguish between a coalition and another coalition: the coalitions of the parties that win the elections to complete the majority are an ethical and democratic mandate, the coalitions of the parties that lose the elections to prevent the parties that win the elections are no longer so democratic and, of course, nothing ethical. [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]] So, Your Honor, what we're looking at is how the Spanish Socialist Workers Party becomes Galicia's third political force in most Greek cities: in the Coruña, in Santiago, in Ferrol, in Ourense and in Pontevedra, you are the third political force. And now the 13th day we're going to see how, if you don't fix it, there's going to be in Galicia, thanks to your support, tripartite governments and quadripartites in cities and municipalities and how there's even going to be in Galicia next Saturday governments that are managed by minority parties in which not even the Socialist Labour Party Spanish wants to participate, even though it's going to vote in favour of investment. Your Honor, without leaving the freeway of the Atlantic: in the Coruña they will support the galley brand of Podemos, but they will not enter the Government; in Ferrol they will support the galley brand of Podemos and enter the Government; in Santiago they will abstain so that the galley brand of Podemos governne. Your Honor, in three councils, three attitudes and, in case it was little, Your Honor...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u6	It's over, president.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u7	...when we get to Lugo,
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u8	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u9	...the Welsh brand of We can compare it with the Holy Inquisition because they don't want to vote...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u10	Finish it, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u11	...an accused candidate who, by the way, lost the election. Your Honor, exactly what model are you talking about? I believe in democracy, I believe in the majority, and I believe in governments that come out of the polls, not in governments that go out against the polls. Thank you very much, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u12	Thank you very much, President. Mr. Méndez Romeo's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u13	Mr. Feijóo, I see you confused and confused. [[Murmurs.]] Look, I sincerely regret that the People's Party doesn't find partners, but you're picking up what they've sown. You over these years have rejected any kind of dialogue on economic policies, in Spain and Galicia, when everyone was warning you that they were deeply reactionary and, besides, fundamentally useless. [[Murmurs.]] Now they find that no one wants to talk to you. Mr. Feijóo, you and Mr. Rajoy are installed in the sovereignty, they are so installed in the sovereignty that they have not yet realized that citizens last day 24, if they had something in common throughout Spain, it was the absolute rejection of a destructive economic policy and a policy that goes against the minimum equality of opportunity that has existed in this country. They also have as a common denominator that are full of corruption taught by the institutions where you've been ruling for years. That's what they told him not to say and his answer is to take fifteen days of apocalyptic campaign, threatening citizens with what? Be democratic and respect the results of the polls, let citizens make decisions and make up the corresponding governments. And remember, Mr. Feijóo, that you, to be president – i.e. the law – must have most of the House and the mayors, to be such, must be elected by the concellers. They respect legality and, if they want, they seek broad consensus to be able to modify it, but they stop doing the ridicule by threatening citizens. Mr President, we must respect the results of the elections. I ask you again: what you're going to do now, you're going to keep demonizing or you're going to start ruling? Are you going to continue self-propaganda in Madrid or are you going to finally deal with the problems that are so serious in Galicia and that it is not possible for you to address them remotely? When are you going to do something constructive, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u14	Thank you very much. The President of the Board has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u15	Your Honor, justify the unjustifiable. Look, Your Honor, the Galician People's Party has obtained 149 absolutes and the Socialist Party, 47. Three by three absolute majority of the People's Party, three times as much, as the Socialist Party. The Galician People's Party, because the Greeks wanted it, we won in 55 municipalities with most relative and in those 55 municipalities lives one million Greeks. On June 13th it may be that a million Greeks have a mayor who is not the most voted in the polls, simply because the Spanish Socialist Workers Party will give that support to the mayors who have lost in the polls to form governments that do not have the mayor voted majority in the polls. [[Murmurs.]] A million! A million Greeks may have a mayor who is not the most voted in the polls. Your Honor, does it seem a little democratic that we are simply asking that the mayors who win the election, whether from the party they are, be mayors supported in the investments? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Your Honor, they are on their way to political irrelevance. You are not created, there are many socialists concerned about the situation and the drift that the Socialist Spanish Workers Party is having throughout Spain and in Galicia especially. [[Murmurs.]] He said they're now third parties in the main cities of Galicia. You were the mayor's lieutenant in the Coruña,
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u16	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u17	Do you remember how the nationalists demonized when you had that huge absolute majority? Do you remember what they said about the BNG when you, mayor of the Crown, talked about the dangerous nationalists who wanted to destroy Spain? They've gone from that to ruling with the BNG and now not only that, Your Honor: now that I'm the third political force in the Coruña, they're going to give the mayorate a force that is not the majority and that is not even nationalist anymore, it's ten political parties that were born – that's what they say – from 15M. You have a wonderful political biography, Mr. Méndez Romeo! I wouldn't like to share it in that degree of incoherence and incongruence. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u18	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u19	Your Honor, I am here to ensure the stability of the Government of Galicia, I am here to ensure the stability of the Autonomous Community of Galicia. And in the cities and municipalities, Your Honor, I honestly don't know if there's going to be the stability that citizens demand of us, what is clear is that the beginning is not good. And the beginning is not good because you're not acting according to the votes that go out in the polls, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u20	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u21	What if I can tell you, Your Honor, is that in Spain we've already noticed. The Secretary General of the Socialist Party, Mr. González, was traveling to Venezuela this week and now you are considering voting for parties that are in accordance with that regime. Surprising, Your Honor, surprising.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u22	Finish, President, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u23	I say, Your Honor, that I answer what I say, I answer what I do and I respond to the stability of the Government. I can't answer what you do, Your Honor. What I know is that you will vote and hide your hand. What I'm telling you is that you are responsible for the governments that support Galicia. Thank you very much, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u24	Thank you very much. Ask Mr. President of the Galician Council of D. Francisco Jesus Jorquera Caselas, of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the assessment of the German Government of the growth of the gap between Galicia, the Spanish State and Europe
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u25	You have the word, to ask your question, Mr. Jorquera Caselas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u26	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Feijóo, Fausto, a Portuguese singer, said in a beautiful song: "This is how Portugal is done, some go well and others go ill." We have recently known a number of studies that indicate that, in fact, some go well and others go ill, in social and territorial terms. According to OECD, social inequality has reached its highest level since there is data and data from the Eurostate indicate that the Spanish State has been the state in which inequality has grown the most. The income of 10% of the richest multiplied by 13 the income of the poorest 10%. 10% of the most favoured population already accumulates 43% of wealth, while 60% of the poorest population owns only 20% of wealth. And in Galicia, Mr. Feijóo, inequality has increased even more than in the Spanish state, that's what a recent study by Foesa says. Look, according to the European Network on Poverty Control and Social Exclusion, in Galicia there are over 90,000 people in severe poverty, over 370,000 people in poverty and about 700,000 people at risk of poverty. But above all, I wanted to draw your attention to the 2013 regional wealth data published by Eurostat. You know what they say? That the average per capita wealth of a Greek is equal to 83% of a European citizen. In 2009, it represented 92.3%, Mr. Feijóo. Since you've been president, we've been down 10 points, returning to the 2004 percentage, Mr. Feijóo. Since you've been president, we've been back for 10 years. Look, the per capita wealth in Galicia is lower by 17 points to the European average and 12 points to the Spanish average. The reality, Mr. Feijóo, is that the average income of a Greek is less than 3,000 euros than that of a Spanish and is less than 12,000 euros than that of a godmother, 35% less, Mr. Feijóo. A demonstration, as I said at the outset, that the crisis does not punish everyone equally, whether social or territorial. That's why Mr. Feijóo, how do you appreciate that the gap between Galicia and Europe continues to grow, particularly since you are president of the Galician Union? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u27	Thank you, Mr. Jorquera. The President of the Board has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u28	Your Honor, you speak in this question, at least in the oral question, because writing can maintain other kinds of ideas... I'm going to try to answer the data you just referred to in the House. You're talking about poverty data in Galicia, as you know, Your Honor, because you were in Madrid when you were doing that kind of economic policy -- in Spain since 2008 we started an economic crisis that we wanted to hide for more than two years. That economic crisis was not accepted by the Government until 2010, two years after it existed. [[Murmurs.]] From then on, Your Honor, in Galicia we started working from 2009 and in Spain from the beginning of 2012. In relation to and consequently, the dramatic effects that are first producing economic recession and economic crisis, I believe that we have to contextualize them properly to know whether we are worse in Galicia or something better, regardless of whether we are bad in Spain. Your Honor, according to recent poverty data – which are from the 2014 Life Conditions Survey now published last month, in May 2015 – Galicia is the fourth autonomous community with the lowest rate of poverty. That's the Life Conditions Survey that I'm sure you've consulted to ask this question. Seven points below the state average. We are the autonomous community in which the population at risk of poverty has been decreasing in recent years, from 2009 to 2014: in 2009 we had 20.6% and now 15.4%. Spain had 20.4% in 2009 and now 22.4%. That's the data, Your Honor, of the National Institute of Statistics Living Conditions Survey. So do we in Galicia worry about the poverty situation? Yes, no doubt. Are we better in that situation than the rest of Spain? Yes, no doubt. Regarding the data of inequality, Your Honor, the Survey of Living Conditions – which has just been published, I insist, in May – says that Galicia is the autonomous community with the least inequality between the poorest and the richest, the autonomous community with the least inequality between the poorest and the richest. Galicia is one of the autonomous communities that have less population in the lowest income strata along with the Basque Country, Navarre and Madrid. We are therefore among the four autonomous communities where the population and its low-income tranches are the minors and, however, we are the ninth autonomous community in which the high-income tranches are higher. And, therefore, that survey, which is at your disposal, specifically that in Galicia the low-income tranches are 13.8%, the high-income tranches are 15.6% and therefore the sum is 29.4%. Do you know, for example, what is Andalusian? 40. Do you know what's Madrid's? 44.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u29	It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u30	Your Honor, are we therefore in a complex situation? Yes, but Galicia is better than the rest of Spain? Or say it differently: Is Galicia worse than the rest of Spain? Yes, in terms of poverty and inequality.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u31	Please finish, president.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u32	And in relation to convergence with Europe... Your Honor, the president is asking you to finish, I will testify to you in the reply. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u33	Thank you very much. Mr. Jorquera Caselas' reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u34	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Feijóo, look, I don't know if you know anecdote that counts about Franco. He approached a gentleman and told him that he was traveling a lot and didn't see the achievements of what he was talking about, Franco answered, "Then you less travel and read more newspapers." Now look, that anecdote reminds me more and more of you, except that you ask us to travel and read less and do more of your propaganda device. That attitude explains, for example, that Mr. Rajoy asks himself who talks about unemployment today. But what world do you live in, Mr. Feijóo? Look, I travel, talk, for example, to the parents to know the outcome that you caused with the textbooks. Go to Artexo and talk to the people who had to go to Portugal to buy vaccines. And they read the papers, Mr. Feijóo: "Galice is the second most needy community." That's the reality of our country, Mr. Feijóo, and not that of his propaganda device. Eurostat data says we're diverging and that's data from 2013, Mr. Feijóo. Today we are even worse because in 2014 the Greek economy was that it had the worst behavior in the whole state, it grew only a third of what the Spanish state did and what Europe did. And in 2015, Mr. Feijóo, we're going along the same path, the industrial production index is falling free while the Spanish state is recovering. But besides, Mr. Feijóo, while in Galicia the population decreases, in Europe the population increases. In Galicia GDP is divided among fewer people, the weight of our GDP – the weight of our economy, ultimately – is getting worse. A demonstration, as I told you, that some are doing well and others are ill, not only in the social but also in the territorial, because of our dependence...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u35	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u36	...but also because of your policies, Mr. Feijóo. Your Government is a recollection for this country. While you're speculating, calculating to jump to Madrid, you're leaving an economic and social desert in our country.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u37	Thank you very much, Mr. Jorquera. The President of the Board has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u38	Your Honor, I don't know exactly if I have to travel less or more. I don't know the calculations you tell me, but I'm here, Your Honor, and that's why I'm worried about my people, so I'm interested exactly as my people are going through with the rest of the people of Spain. [[Murmurs.]] I think you should be worried about this, too. Because you tell me about Galician problems, I know them, Your Honor. I have no objective but to reduce them or, at least, to temper them. I think it is not logical to deny that the problems of poverty in Galicia – which exist – and the problems of needs in Galicia – that exist – are for us the biggest problems but that, in national terms, in terms of state, in terms of Spain, we are within autonomous communities with lower poverty rates and we are the autonomous community with less inequality between high income and low income. Your Honor, it is true that the Greek economy is growing. Now the discussion is already beginning to grow little or much, but until now the discussion was not growing, Your Honor, the discussion was how much fell and during the economic recession the Greek economy fell less than the average of Spain, less than the average of Spain. The decline in GDP in Galicia was 1.03% and GDP in Spain was 1.38%, less than the average in Spain. Now, Your Honor, the Greek economy has grown by 0.5% in the last quarter, the best since 2007. Obviously, we'd like to grow more. The Independent Tax Responsibility Authority, which has just given some data on how the economy has grown in the last quarter, says that in Galicia the economy has grown in the last quarter of 2015 1%, a tenth more than Spain. Your Honor, when you tell me about the Greek economy, still growing at 0.9%, you know that Galicia is growing just like Germany – Germany 1% and Galicia at 0.9%. Galicia is growing more than Italy, more than Austria, more than France. [[Murmurs.]] If you tell me Galicia isn't growing everything that's growing up in Spain, I agree. What I cannot agree with, Your Honor, is that for what you are interested in criticising policies in Spain and for what you are not interested in turning Spain into the paradigm of the policies to be pursued. Your Honor, a little common sense. I'm saying that because I'm worried about the data of the Greeks. And, therefore, reading the papers is very good, Your Honor, but that's not traveling. Reading the papers and contrasting them with official data, I think that's what you have to do for a deputy who wants to transfer coherence to the House and not just news. [[Murmurs.]] Your Honor, the data are that we have a lower rate of poverty than the average of Spain. The fact is that we are the fourth autonomous community with fewer inequalities between high income and low income. When you say communities lost convergence, Galicia lost convergence with Europe: yes, all autonomous communities in Spain and Spain lost convergence with Europe more than Galicia, Spain 10.4 points and Galicia 7.5 points.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u39	It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u40	Yes, Your Honor, Spain's convergence with Europe has been lost more than Galicia's convergence with Europe. So, Your Honor, we're not going to fool the Greeks, the Greeks we know how to read and write and we know how to interpret. Your Honor, I do not ask you to support this government as it has supported the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party with the policies that have brought us here, what if I ask you, Your Honor, is what value Galicia and the effort Galicia is making against poverty and social exclusion. Thank you very much, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u41	Thank you very much. Ask Mr. President of the Galician Board of Da Yolanda Díaz Pérez, G.P. of the Alternative Galaga de Left on the situation of deprotection of the Greek families
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u42	You have the floor, to ask your question, Mrs. Yolanda Díaz Pérez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u43	Good morning, Madam President. Mr. Feijóo, I'm going to ask you a question: do you know how many homes there are in Galicia that don't enter a penny of euro? Exactly, Mr. Feijóo, I mean, there are 35,000 homes that affect nothing but 63,000 human beings. They're people who have feelings, they have to eat, they have children, they're human beings. I don't know if you know, Mr. Feijóo, that our protection rate in Galicia is only 4%. I don't know if you know that only 11,948 people – you claim so much of the Risk – are those who have access to a Risk with all the processing problems that continue to have the Risk. I don't know if you know that, with which it's raining and with these humans in absolute deprotection, we only devote of their budget 47 million euros to the protection of people who, I insist, have nothing. I don't know if you know that the policies of the People's Party are turning not into suffering but into an absolute crack of social exclusion our country, which is allowing these 11,000 people to receive an income of 399 euros, in the best of cases. But I ask you for those 63,000 people, Mr. Feijóo, who have nothing. I also ask you, Mr Feijóo, for this terrible data – from which you have so far doubled – that in 95,000 homes in Galicia all your members – recent EPA – are in a state of unemployment. These are real data, Mr. Feijóo. I also ask you for those 185,261 people who do not have unemployment protection, Mr Feijóo, thanks to the policies of the People's Party, who attack and cut these benefits. I also ask you, Mr. Feijóo, for those 130,000 people who are in severe poverty. And the question I ask you is, Mr. Feijóo, will you rescue those 63,000 people who don't enter their homes a hundred euros? Are you going to change your budget, from here to December, to place this action as a fair priority? Are you going to open school lunches in summer so that children in this country who have nutritional problems can at least guarantee a meal? Will you change your policies, Mr Feijóo, or will you follow this terrible path of social exclusion and rescue to the powerful and leaving the bank? And finished with a reflection, Mr. Feijóo: the polls spoke, as much as you disagree with this democratic system. The polls talked and said they were sick of poverty, inequality, and in Galicia we don't tolerate people who don't even have to eat. 63,000 people, what are you going to do with these people, Mr. Feijóo? Don't tell me about differences with Spain...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u44	It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u45	...tell me of realities, of 63,000 human beings.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u46	Thank you very much, Mrs. Díaz. The President of the Board has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u47	Thank you. Your Honor, I think the question of polls is already discussed with the Socialist Party. If you want to talk about the polls, you'll realize your party's gone. So the policies of the United Left, Your Honor, the Spaniards and the Greeks are not of interest to them. So what I'm interested in is the Greeks, not the support of United Left, which turns out to disappear from the Spanish political map, you'll know why. Look, Your Honor, all of us here – I'm convinced that everyone – have someone in the family who has no work; all of us here. We all have not only family people, but, of course, friends and neighbors who have no work; and that's the biggest cause of social exclusion. That's why, Your Honor, I think it's a good fact that today we have 26,000 less people posted on the unemployment lists in Galicia a year ago. And I think it's still a good fact that today we have 22,500 more people affiliated to Social Security than a year ago. Those are undoubtedly good data. If you tell me, is that enough data? Obviously not. But today we have more work than a year ago? Of course I do. When we look at the living conditions surveys, Your Honor – because they are the only data we have to understand – I reiterate again what I told the fellow BNG, Galicia has reduced the risk of poverty – according to the survey – from 2009 to 2014, from 20.6 to 15.4%. That's the data, Your Honor. You, where they ruled, increased the poverty rate. Where they ruled, not now, they don't need to. In Andalusia you had 28.8% of poverty and ended in 2014 with 33.3%. What is your policy, Your Honor? What's the model you're asking me about? At the poverty risk rate is one of the five autonomous communities in which it has been most reduced in the past year, at the Arope rate. I'm taking all: the INE, the poverty risk survey, the Arope rate. Average income per person in Galicia rose timidly from 10,106 euros to 10,200. And as for the difficulties to reach the end of the month, the homes that arrive easily doubled; of the 5% that arrived before, 10%. It's true, Your Honor, that we still have 20 percent of the homes that come in with a lot of difficulties by the end of the month. And that's why we're doing this, Your Honor? What we're doing is not denying a problem; what we're doing is working, for example, by increasing social inclusion games 17 times more than the budget has increased; 17.7%, 70 million euros. For example, increasing the risk of double what we had when we arrived at the Government in 2009, that is, with 2,000 million euros less, Your Honor. With $2,000 million less, we take care of three times the dependents and twice the Risga people.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u48	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u49	Your Honor, what have we just done? I'm sorry you didn't even notice. We then signed with the food banks and with the Fegamp the whole process to care for all families who might need their children to eat, in case school lunchers, during the summer season, close. [[Murmurs.]] We've reached another agreement for the second consecutive year...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u50	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u51	...and let's keep doing it. Your Honor, commitment to poverty is nobody's heritage. Commitment to poverty is an ethical and personal heritage for people and political leaders.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u52	Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u53	I will never give up that commitment. Thank you very much, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u54	Mrs. Díaz Pérez's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u55	Mr. Feijóo, because ethical commitment is seen as having none, because I am speaking clearly and asking concise questions. I'm asking you if you're going to rescue the 63,000 people who don't enter your houses a penny of euro; it's easy, Mr. Feijóo. I know you practice charity, I know you do. We don't want charity, we want justice. I know you are indeed charitable. I want justice. I'm asking you if you're going to meet exactly what the Foesa Report says, because you're reading the Foesa Report. I will read to you – page 7, conclusions, Mr Feijóo – what he certainly says about Galicia. It's very interesting, Mr. Feijóo, to heed the conclusions of this report. Look, for people to see it, they tell us: actually, the space of social exclusion has increased. In Galicia there are estimated at 170,000 households – which affect 500,000 people, Mr. Feijóo, 500,000 people! – who are in social exclusion in 2013. Among them it is paramount – says the Foesa Report, it does not say it to the Alternative Gaga de Left, which is in Venezuela, like you, concerned by Venezuela – to provide urgent attention – I said the Foesa Report – to 55,000 homes – 55,000 homes. It says it affects 130,000 people who are in a situation of severe exclusion. Mr. Feijóo, don't give up the partridge, don't become a sociologist, by the way, bad – don't be a bad sociologist – tell us to the Greeks and to the Greeks that is going to comply with the part of the conclusions of the Foessa Report. And I also tell you, Mr. Feijóo, speaking of official reports, that the EMIN Report speaks of ten key points that also affect you. He said: First, are budgets going to be increased from here to December, Mr Feijó, for social integration incomes, yes or no, Mr Feijó? Make it clear and don't interpret the figures, tell me yes or no. Will you open the school dining rooms? We already know what the Food Bank is, Mr Feijóo, we know it; by the way, a company – no comments – but we already know what it is.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u56	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u57	Mr. Feijóo, look, will you change the policies as this public report requires or will you continue? Will you rescue people? And don't – I insist – as a sociologist, because surely I wouldn't make a living like that. Nothing more and thank you very much. And, please, for once answer yes or no.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u58	Thank you very much. The President of the Board has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u59	Thank you very much, Your Honor. I don't know what you mean by poverty. When you're interested in it, use the Caritas reports. And when he doesn't care about Caritas' reports, he says that poverty and charity don't have... Look, Your Honor, ask me concrete things: are we going to increase budgets? Yes. Are we going to increase the budgets? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Yes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u60	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u61	But not your proposal, which too, Your Honor. In the past Council of the Union we increased for the fourth time consecutively the budgets for aid and social initiative entities. Yes, Your Honor. We've spent 40% more than last year and 62% more than in the last two years. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Your Honor, for the first time these budgets and these aids will be multi-yearly for all the dining rooms, for all the hostels, for all the reception centers. Your Honor, we have just signed – as I say – with the Food Bank and with all the Greek municipalities the protection of all the boys during the summer period in which there is no class; of course, Your Honor. Are we gonna keep working on this? Yes, but do not manipulate reports. The report on exclusion and social development, the Foesa, indeed, honourable Member, that October 2014 report, why do you hide from the House that the lowest rate of exclusion, both for households and for people, is that of Galicia? Why are you hiding that data, Your Honor? Your Honor, I don't live in Sweden, I live in Spain, and therefore, when I say that we are the region, the autonomous community, the historical nationality, with the lowest index, both in homes and in individuals the lowest rate of exclusion, I believe that the Greeks have the right to know, and hiding it is simply not to tell the truth to the Greeks, Your Honor. It's not to tell the Greeks the truth. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Your Honor, let's keep talking, of course, to the new councils, which now turns out they're going to have new ideas. They'll find the Government in those new ideas. Look, Your Honor, already at the Investment Debate I talked about the challenges of defeats in Galicia; in the debate in 2012, in December. And from there we started working, Your Honor. We started working and in fact arrived at a program, in October 2013, to ensure that families were in a state of defiance, being Galicia, that is, one of the autonomous communities with less defiances in Spain; 2.39% of Spain's total in 2014 and 1.90% in the first quarter of 2015. If you ask me, is that enough? No, no, no, no. Let's keep working, Your Honor. We arrived with the Program Reconduces 303 families. We prevent 80 families from forced eviction. We have continued to agree, and since 2013 we have agreed with the Council of the Judiciary to first know the possible judgments, in application of the rule of law, which can be produced, and we avoid 38 cases. Your Honor, shall we continue to work? The answer is yes. Two things. The first one, expanding...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u62	It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u63	...the program also for rent evictions, which are the ones that are actually producing more intensively at the moment. And secondly, by asking and proposing to the new Greek municipalities and to the new Greek deputies a whole set of economic resources, technical resources and human resources, available.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u64	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u65	What's this about? That the Galician Union, the municipalities and the deputies put economic aid, put labor opportunities, and put living alternatives to evictions as well as renting. Your Honor, our objective is that no family is homeless as a result of economic problems.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u66	Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u67	I hope to find the Greek municipalities and the deputies. There are municipalities, Your Honor, who are assuming zero deficit...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u68	Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u69	...and even reducing public debt. We, as long as this problem exists, are unable to do it or will do it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u70	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u71	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u72	We continue with the development of the agenda with point 5 of non-legislative proposals. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of Mr José Ramón Val Alonso and two other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in the area of safety at sea
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u73	This motion for a non-law amendment by the Joint Parliamentary Group was tabled at the initiative of Mrs Martínez. [[G.P. Together, through its honourable Member and spokeswoman Consuelo Martínez García, in the light of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the House, presents the following amendment for addition to this non-law proposal.Additional amendment.A new ordinal 5o must be added in the resolution with the following content:"5a]] Take the necessary administrative measures to ensure that all workers in the fisheries and maritime sector receive specific training in the field of occupational safety and health, provided by ISSGA".)
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u74	To formulate the non-law proposal, Mr. José Ramón Val Alonso, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u75	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good morning to all and to all. Good morning, Counselor. Today we are again bringing to the plenary an initiative which has already been discussed a few months ago in the 8th Committee on Fisheries and Maritime Affairs to discuss one of the most important issues affecting the Greek fisheries sector. A theme that has nothing to do with resource management or fishing planning, but which unfortunately remains one of the black spots for the sector. We're talking about maritime safety and policies for the prevention of accidents at sea. Today, despite the policies of the People's Party and their commitment to legislate against the sector, there are still censuses in the Greek ports today of more than 4,500 vessels, of different sizes and engaged in different activities, but they all share a common point, which is only to carry out their activity in a hostile environment like the sea. Unfortunately, since the arrival of the Galician Government of the People's Party and Mr. Núñez Feijóo, the sector has gone back in an alarming manner. Since 2009, around 5,000 people have been lost in the Special Social Security Sea Plan. The working conditions of the workers have been precariously eliminated, all measures of a social nature, such as collective insurance policy at sea or even aid for the contributions of the seafarers; policies are not crafted to help alleviate the economic losses or workers' incomes, etc. But what is much more serious is that many steps have already been taken that do not help anything to increase the safety of our ships or crews engaged in their work. So fundamental issues have been eliminated – it seems to them and the Socialist Parliamentary Group – as was bad weather insurance; a tool that I am convinced that, well used, could be an indispensable tool for the accident prevention sector, because mariners, professionals, must have guaranteed minimum income when conditions are adverse, when climate conditions do not allow them to work with guarantees. Because we can't close our eyes, we can't look elsewhere and believe that seamen, and sea women, when they don't fish, don't have to take home. But for this to work, first the People's Party had to internalize that there was a problem. After interiorizing it, I had to find a solution. And then come up with some alternatives. And what he did on this subject was he didn't believe, from minute one, in this tool that was set in motion for the sector. Besides not believing her, she didn't put any other alternatives either. A decree has also been issued by the Central Government to deminish the minimum crews necessary to carry out the fishing activity; a decree which directly affects the actual safety of vessels and their crew members. And even since Galician Union, since the Government of Galicia, a decree was passed on 130/2012, which opens the doors to the competent authority in order to charge fees for rescue services. I know that here will come the spokesperson of the People's Party saying that there is an instruction issued by the Secretary General of the Sea not to charge the professionals of the sea. But the decree says what it says, and if they want to put it in writing, what they have to do is change the decree. And by standing a little in Decree 963/2013 of 5 December, so the minimum safety crews of fishing vessels are fixed and their procedure for regulation is regulated, we believe that it is, without a doubt, one of the greatest attacks that the Government of the People's Party has made, in this case of the State, with the conceptiveness of the Greek Government, against security at sea. A clear case of legislation made to the extent of shipowners less committed to the safety of their workers and their crews and who only think in their economic interests. And I say this because anyone can check how there are articles of that royal decree directed and made to measure a particular fleet, that fleet that is between 20 and 24 meters and that performs its activity in waters of the European Union; where minimum crews of 7 to 5 crews are reduced just on the side of the nautical-fishers, the people with higher training, the people entitled, which, logically, are the ones that most have to watch for the safety of the crews. They are able, even, in that decree to increase the powers of a titration, as is that of a multi-purpose coastal pattern, above their competences, to be able to dispatch ships above the competences of this title. In that same decree there are no clear rules. The crew's conformances are left to the seamen, opening the door to which the crew of a ship of up to 12 meters may be conformed – complying with a number of requirements – for only one person, for only one crewman. And we wonder if this is to ensure the safety of sea workers. In the opinion of the Socialist Party, this is a genuine disincentive in the area of security. Because it's true that there are technological advances, it's true that there are advances to improve security conditions; but it's no less true that the human factor remains indispensable in the sea. And these measures that have been put in place – and those that have been removed – do nothing but confirm that we are faced with a government that does not regard accident prevention or maritime safety as a priority; a government that is completely insensitive to the problems of men and women of the sea, and perhaps that is why, unfortunately, even today Galicia remains the community with a higher rate of injury in the sea. More than 23 dead last year, unfortunately, it only confirms it. We think it's time to move forward, try to do something for the industry. It's no use sitting in San Caetano waiting and praying for nothing to happen at sea. Today we believe there are many possibilities to improve the safety of our ships. Patented and tested systems that are used to keep ships fleeting in case of maritime accidents. Individual location systems, approved, which could be perfectly implanted. But of course, for all this, what it takes is political will and work to get it out of the way. There will be resources, because it is now about to enter into force, the European Maritime Fisheries Fund, which will make an important amount of resources available to the German Government just to work on this subject too. So we want to bring an initiative today to this House to give a boost to the measures that must put in place the German Government in two directions, in two areas. First, to directly improve the safety of the affected, of the sea workers, by applying approved and patented systems, which improve these security conditions, such as those individual tracking systems for men and women of the sea; or they can be approved systems so that ships can maintain flotation in the event of accidents at sea. A second term, aimed at modifying the legislation adopted recently by the Government of the People's Party which affects – in the opinion of this group and of this Member – directly to security. I'm talking about derogating this Royal Decree 963/2013 of December 5, so the minimum crews are fixed. We believe, and I've explained it now, that it's an attack on the safety of the sea because, justly, it dwindles the minimum crews by the side of the nautical-fishing titits, of those who really are the most prepared and who have to watch for the safety of their crews. And we also demand that the Government of Greece derogate or amend that Royal Decree 130/2012, so the fees are set to charge in case of maritime accidents, to totally exclude professionals from the sea from this situation. These are some of the measures we are considering today in our alternative. There are probably many others, but what we need is to take steps to advance into a matter that remains one of the black spots in the sector. It is necessary to demonstrate to the industry that this House, this Parliament, is concerned about its safety, the safety of people, men and women at sea. I think it is necessary to count on the support of all the groups in this House, because we are talking about human lives, and I think that is more than enough reason to reach a unanimous agreement in this Parliament. For my part, that's all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u76	Thank you, Mr. Val. Intervention of the groups. Joint Parliamentary Group. Mrs. Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u77	Thank you, President. Good morning to all and to all. Good morning, Counselor. Galicia was in 2014 the second autonomous community with more fatal accidents in the working day, with 59 deceased; only behind Andalusia, of course, with a great difference in population and active population. As for the severity of the accidents, 97.9% of the total were serious, and 59 were fatal. This data accounts for an increase of 25.53 % in fatal accidents compared to 2013. In addition, the 59 deaths occurring on a working day place Galicia as the second in the ranking of autonomous communities with more fatal accidents. Sectoral data shows that a total of 1,197 accidents occurred in the fisheries sector. The year 2014 leaves a balance of accidents of fishing vessels intolerable to Galicia and to the people of the sea. There have been at least a total of 24 deaths in six accidents, which already require a deep analysis by the Galician Union and the Ministry, and which take the necessary steps to prevent it from repeating itself. On February 17, 2014, the New Sara Fisherman, based in Mera, Coruña, came back when he collected his noses from the dust near Marola, in the Gulf of the Arctic, with the result of a dead man and a survivor. On March 10th, the Santa Ana fishing jester near Cape Peñas, with the result of a single survivor and 8 dead. On April 1st, the Marin Sea trawler collided in the Vigo stream with a final balance of five dead. On April 17, the trawler based in Marín, Our Sea, was flooded and poured about 20 miles north of Navia, leaving five more dead for the people of the sea. On November 29th, the flyer of Celeiro, Safran, inundates and dumps about 35 miles north of San Sebastián, with the result of 2 dead. On December 16th, the Paquito II ship, based on the Vilagarcia river, zozobra at bending the Corrubedo cable. Three more dead are added to the long list, two of which are still missing. The final balance of 2014 leaves a total of 24 dead, of which 7 remain missing. It is well known that fishing is one of the most dangerous activities in the Spanish state, and much more so in Galicia, and that most of the rates of sinisterity significantly exceed other dangerous economic activities, such as construction. However, we cannot allow this to continue to happen, and hope that another accident will occur again to say that measures will be taken that never become effective. It is essential to improve the living, working and safety conditions of the workers and the sea and fishing in particular, because we are currently experiencing a remarkable retreat that puts us back into the conditions prior to 1978. But I don't want to forget about the shellfish on foot, mostly carried out by women in very precarious conditions, and no more personal protective teams than they themselves do. A physically hard work, which over time leaves sequels to the health of the maricadores; hours in forced positions, wet in the cold waters of our sea. I would like to make this amendment, which I think is essential. It is essential that workers and workers at sea know their rights in the field of occupational health. The PPEs that must have at their disposal and the sector-specific safety standards. As for the people who perform their work on their own, it will be the Issga who should provide them with PPE. You can't claim rights if you don't know them, training is fundamental. So, the amendment I tabled, I hope it's right. He said, "Take the necessary administrative measures to ensure that all workers in the fishing and seafood sector receive specific training in the field of safety and occupational health provided by Issga." Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u78	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. Lord Wheels
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u79	Good morning, ladies. Good morning, Counselor. The sinister data produced in Galicia, 26 dead in the last two years, are dramatic, and respond to a model of fishing activity that is fundamentally precarried by political decisions. A model conditioned by lack of political capacity to cope with this situation. There they have the Faeroe Islands, capable of negotiating a quota right four times that of the Spanish State in species we share. There we have the German State, with four ships, which has the same capacity, in certain species, as the Spanish State itself. The result of not politically existing is irregular activity, without rights and precariousness. Rather than confronting this situation that governs us, it really points out to distribute the few pieces left. Look at, but instead, the Galician Union, which carried out the sale of rescue helicopters Fishing I and Fishing II; adopted Decree 130/2012, which establishes tariffs for rescue operations, or delivered the vessels from the Union to the Repolcanosa by the amount of 10 million each year, as well as the elimination of insurance for bad weather or collective accident insurance. The renunciation of our competences and the interest in privatizing the media is to turn the industry behind, giving exceptional situations such as the obligation to carry on board type D bottles, which do not fit on some of the boats; or the one of the Peregrine, which has been lost in Muxia and the Union is claiming an invoice of 4,600 euros. Look, but the state, too. Maritime radio communications systems have been privatized; published Royal Decree 963/2013, of minimum safety crews; privatized crews and management of public vessels and trailers, or the transfer of the Ruibo helicopter, in Cee, which is a longer time of response. His model worsens the conditions of the right to fish and the profitability of activity. Look at the coastline trawl fleet. We've already had 17 Luso Pavilion boats and the shipowner for having higher quotas, while our fleet goes directly to the disposal of coercive measures that have been subjected to Community policies; with jobs where crews earn less and less, where they increase work days with slave conditions and increasingly invest less safely, so they are aging and becoming unsafe. In this context of the precaution of activity, we must bear in mind that Galicia has changing climatic conditions which, on many occasions, prevent us from going out for several days, and that, when there are no coverage, such as bad insurance, cause a high number of episodes that can end in disasters and, in more cases than we want, cause the loss of human lives; here we have the case of the last two deaths in the port of Laxe. This is the result of the policies that have been implemented in recent years, which the People's Party requires to slow down the public administration, privatize essential services and, above all, to subject fishermen's right to market freedom and which the same goes to the hands of shipowners, distribution chains or the financial sector. Measures which are imposed from Brussels, but which are systematically communicated by the governments of the People's Party, from the Union or from the Centralist Government. Accidents and sinking set out the conditions of fragility in which this dangerous activity takes place, but also the hypocrisy of those who govern us, by taking measures of supposed austerity that end with the public media in private hands, which undermine crew safety and worsen working conditions. Measures that when the time of truth comes, at the moment of distress, of help, end up in tragedy. The PP imposes criteria where the interests of companies, markets and shipowners above crews and the country itself are top priority. So we need to change the course to regain the right to fish, improve the conditions of fishing activity and living conditions...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u80	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u81	...of crews with concrete measures, measures such as, instead of a single pattern on the bridge, there are 3; that instead of working 12 hours, it is eight; that when there is a bad time he is not distressed because he cannot get out of the sea. That you can work according to our historic rights, since the Greeks we fish for food and not to infuriate. And for this we need a government that accompanies, not a government that stalks. If we're going to support...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u82	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u83	...the Socialist Party's initiative, although we consider it not to go to the bottom of the matter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u84	Thank you, Mr. Rhodes. Parliamentary Group of the Left Galician Alternative. Mr. Fajardo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u85	Good morning to all and to all. I am grateful to the Counsellor that she is present in this important debate and that she does not do as the rest of the Greek Government, who immediately after the intervention of Feijóo – as she always does – will eat freely. This debate is extremely important because we are talking about data that demonstrates and affirms a question that is certainly of concern to us: the most dangerous work in the whole of the European Union is fishing in Galicia. The rates of disability and death show that, for any work in the European Union as a whole, the most likely to die is that of fishing in Galicia. So this data should have been enough for the Board and the Administration to take letters on the subject to improve the situation. We'll see, in the course of my intervention, that this is not the case. During 2014, in ISSGA data, 20 fishing deaths in Galicia; 55 serious accidents. This means that, in a population of 4,400 boats, with 19,269 crew members, last year died in a labor accident in fishing 1 out of every 1,000 workers. That index is scary, and it should mean that we were doing something to cure that system today. It's very scary because if we compare it, for example, to the industry's index, we say that the industry dies 1 out of 100,000 workers, and it turns out that the fishing dies 1 out of 1,000. So the first thing this spokesman has to do is ask the Board what he's doing to change this reality. And I don't think it's any good that I thought the Watch Plan is on. By the way, finished last year with the worst sinister data. So is an assessment of the results of that plan being made? Are you making a comprehensive plan of what is the reality and why these situations have been given? We think it's important that there's a diagnosis of reality, because we can't say to this data that nothing happens, we can't say that we're already doing what needs to be done, because last year was absolutely disastrous and tragic as far as we're dealing with crime at sea. So the first thing this government has to do is to analyze the causes, to put on the table the reports of the investigations of each of the disasters that were given last year, and from there on, also elaborate a plan so that this will not happen again in the country. Because – we insist – we are 100 times above the weakness in any other sector and we are faced with the most dangerous work of the European Union as a whole. One of the clear evidences that this Vigy Plan was that it was focused on the responsibility of the sailors, on personal decisions, on their knowledge; but nothing was spoken of as a whole, about how these working conditions were given. Of how scarce resources at sea, and low income, make risky decisions that would not be made in other situations. How the Administration does not help either, and if we are aware of reality, we will see that most of the disasters have nothing to do with individual actions of the sea workers, but with working conditions, with little resources and also with the ineffectiveness of rescues or with the ineffectiveness of the Joint intervention in the whole infrastructure, which would make this activity safer. We share the Socialist Party's initiative, but there is something that seems tremendously serious to us. Decisions such as the reduction of crews are something that cannot be agreed upon; that not only goes against work and working conditions, but also about the safety and life of sea workers. Decree 130/2012, so bail rates are paid, is irresponsible in terms of security, because it prevents a lot of people from calling the Salvation so they don't have to pay, and also in terms of that the publicity given to this country is tremendous. It has been said here that these 4,200 euros are being asked to a person for having lost in this country, and being rescued, is making an advertising all over the world very dangerous to our country, very dangerous! because we are moving to the people who come to our country that, if you have a percentage, you will have to pay, and that in many cases you will not be able to do it with your income. We therefore believe that we must improve the information and training channels of our mariners, but also the institutional mechanisms and the administration that ensure that, once a person is given an opportunity, we will have a quick, safe and, above all, agile attention to the question that is not true in the privatization of most of these services, when we are talking about the fact that resources are being launched through a process that thinks more about economic profitability than about caring for...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u86	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u87	...people and crew. But, above all, because it is necessary and there are technical resources to put into the hands of our sea workers. Why not make a plan to equip our crews, our sailors, with technical capabilities that would avoid situations like those that occurred, for example, in the Arousa River? So we are going to support this proposal, but we deeply regret that since the administration nothing had been done about the most disastrous data in a sector as well as serious and deadly accidents in the state as a whole. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u88	Thank you, Mr. Fajardo. People's Parliamentary Group. Mr. Balsairo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u89	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Counsellor, we cannot coincide with the distorted image – I would say – that they intended to draw opposition groups in their interventions, but quite the opposite. Since the People's Party acceded to government responsibility in 2009, since you run the Sea Council, you have made significant progress, Counselor, in the improvement of sea safety. I repeat, we have made significant progress in the rights and quality of life of the thousands of people who develop their activity at sea. But it is not that this Member says so, the facts are there, and the facts are verifiable. For example, we promoted... and you know well that you were fishing delegate when the rescue service helicopters couldn't be operational because they didn't have double crew, and the Galician Coast Guard Service boats. Do you remember the Punta Roncateira, when you were a fishing delegate? Where was he? Locked in the port of Viveiro. He put years in the port of Viveiro. That's why I'm telling you: we promote increased operationality, recently arrived in 2009, providing fishing I in Vigo, and fishing II in Celeiro, double crew to operate 24 hours a day and 365 days a year. Helicopters bought by a government of the People's Party. And you were in the government, the Socialist Party and the Galician Nationalist Block, from 2005 to 2009, and not one or two or three, but consecutively, voted against equipping these double crew helicopters. Once the People's Party's Government arrived, they gave us a double crew, because when the People's Party's Government arrived, there were cases where helicopters couldn't rescue people at sea because crew members were out of flight hours. You, when the Cordero sank, were fishing delegate, and the fishing helicopter II remained inoperative at the Coruña airport. Do you remember that? The marine rescue boats, the Punta Roncateira – I repeat – when you were a fishing delegate, had been moored for years in the port of Viveiro. We can say that sea professionals have many more material and human means of maritime security. The Rescue Service budgets have not been cut. Rescue Service budgets are shielded. But in addition, training efforts have multiplied, Mr Val, training efforts have increased. The number of students enrolled in the centres of Vigo, Ferrol, Ribeira and Illa has experienced significant growth since 2009. More than 2,000 people have obtained their professional qualification in joint centers with security training, and more than 14,000 professionals from the sea have received unregulated training. You insist permanently on the same arguments, month after month and year after year, and again and again we are telling you that they are false. You've just spoken here about the contributions to the maricadoras. Look, the Galician Union continues to pay contributions to the maricadoras. I don't know how many times we've explained it to him! What doesn't blow the Galician Union is a supplement, but the contributions to the seafooders to the Galician Union continue to go off. You talk here about bad weather insurance. It was the professionals themselves who didn't ask for bad weather insurance. Do you know the data? Do you know them? So if you know them, what do you want us to do? Does it make sense to recover something that the sector didn't ask for? We keep it not. You're talking about the collection of the Coast Guards. I don't know how many times we've explained it to him! There is an explicit instruction that prevents the collection of professionals. There is, there is, and I let the President of Parliament, once again, pass it on to them. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And I've kept them here several times, I've held them several times, to which they had a single case of collection. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] They can't wear it. You know why they can't wear it? Because it doesn't exist, because it doesn't exist for fishermen. You know why you can't wear it? And I regret it once more. If you, when you go up to Parliament's rostrum, can present a single charge that has been made to the sector, I have to remove everything I said. But it's not going to happen.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u90	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u91	You know why? Because not. Do you know who we're going to charge? We're going to give him the service, but do you know who we're going to charge? To the millionaires! To the millionaires yes, to the millionaires yes. [[Laughter]] Those who come in yachts and those who come in cruises, that when you were not on those. And you're talking about the loss of employment in the sea. Man, please! You quit manipulating the data, man! As for the evolution of the special regime of the sea, with the Socialist Party in government, 2004-2011, membership has been reduced by 22%. With the People's Party the average was 3.33%...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u92	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u93	...seven times less. Please don't come and manipulate the data. I'm done, Mr. President. Mr. Val, look, recipes from the Socialist Party in maritime security, none. I'll remind you of nothing but one data. You were in the government, supported by the Galego Nationalist Block, they cut the light at the base of Galician Coast Guard Service because there was a morbid government that didn't pay the bills. So what are you talking about at Parliament's rostrum? Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u94	Thank you, Mr. Balsairo. Group author of the non-law proposal. Mr. Val. Give Mr. Val a voice, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u95	Thank you, President. The truth is, Mr. Balsairo, I don't know how people might be watching this debate after the irresponsibility you showed in your debate... I understand that it has to be very difficult for you to go out and defend a position of a failed government, a government with no impulse and a government that the data you just put on the table a few minutes ago show that you're not doing anything at all about security. It's good that you told me about what happened in the Bipartite. I can give you all of this for good, what I'm never going to do is what you did during that stage, which was to accuse the Government of the deaths and accidents of the sea. That's what we're never gonna do. What we do is we try to get you to take part in this matter and put measures on the table that solve the situation of insecurity on our ships. You can't make us believe that the policies you're implementing are improving in something like this. Because the reality is what it is, Mr. Balsairo, and I would ask him to at least, when one speaks to him, look at his face and don't turn his back. I think that's the first act of responsibility you should do. The data are what they are, and the truth is, the irresponsibility sample you have on this subject is tremendously alarming, because they're not doing anything at all. More than 20 dead last year and you look like they're not enough figures to try to take some action and put in place some questions that will serve to improve prevention. You're talking about bad weather insurance. Of course he wasn't sued by the sector! But the first thing you had to do was believe in that tool and promote it to be welcomed by the sector, because that's a prevention tool that could probably have been used to save many lives, especially bass fishermen, who have to come out when climate conditions are very adverse. But you don't believe it, simply and plainly, because it was a measure proposed by the Socialist Party. This is the reality, Mr. Balsairo, and that is an act of irresponsibility on the part of the Government as well as of adopting a minimum crew decree and legislating only for shipowners, without thinking about the people who go on board the ships. You want to explain to me here how a Great Sun boat, which can have a minimum crew of five people, two graduates and three sailors, can guarantee security conditions? I ask you, on a Great Sun boat that works eight days in a row 24 hours in the sea, who makes the guard of a bridge pattern when he's going to sleep? Who makes it? An untitled person. And if there's an accident, whose responsibility is it, Mr. Balsairo? Well, you're legislating in that sense. They're legislating in that sense, Mr. Balsairo. They allow and open the door for these things to pass, and I think that's an act of irresponsibility by the German Government. So we demand them and ask them to do something, to modify that decree and to seek the improvement of the crew and not of the shipowners, that many of them sit in the house and have no danger at all at the time of an accident. And, as far as the amendment is concerned, we're going to accept the amendment of the Joint Group. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u96	Thank you, Mr. Val. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Alternative Galaga de Left, at the initiative of D. Juan Manuel Fajardo Recouso and D. Antón Sánchez García, on the demand by the Government of Greece to the central government of the post in operation of the Atlantic axis, on the stage The Coruña-Vigo, with the security system ERTMS committed
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u97	This motion for a non-law has been tabled with an amendment by the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u98	Mr Fajardo has the floor for the defense of this non-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u99	Good day to all of you again. The truth and it is certainly regrettable that an opposition group has to come to this Parliament simply asking the Government to comply with what it says. In a normal country, a government that publicly puts forward a proposal and blatantly violates it should march home, or at least the political leaders of non-compliance. Our initiative is as simple as telling the Central Government to do what you promised at the end of 2013. At the end of 2013, or Secretary General of Infrastructure said: "There will be one before and one after the crash of Angrois, and I confirm that part of the 50 million euros of a part of 110, intended for security, will be used to install ERTMS in the high-speed service stretch between Santiago and A Coruña. At the end of 2014, when the rest of the trace is launched to Vigo, it is given that the new steps will have the system that is currently monitoring the train drive." That's what the Government said in 2013, that when the high-speed Atlantic axis Vigo-La Coruña was put into operation, it would count on that security system. What reality was it? The reality is that it is put into operation without that service, and the posteriori bids itself, with good luck, for 2017 that plot counts with that service. So there's a gross non-compliance that demonstrates two issues. First, that 100 percent of security gives you equal to those who rule in this country. And in this country, where we've had a dramatic experience of how premonitions, electoral calendars and improvisation can cause death, we make decisions again against the security, neighbourhood and citizens of this country. They should put you behind every leader of the People's Party, just like you do in the drugs, the contraindications. It's dangerous to mix openings with electoral campaign; it's dangerous to put the electoral calendars, in the search for votes, to security. So we're as simple as pretending to fulfill what they promised. That it's not worth that when I remember you're alive, you make decisions and then you try to frustrate those decisions. Let it be forgotten that political decisions have caused a disaster of absolutely dramatic conditions in this country to soon afterwards, in an infrastructure to once again forget such situations. But above all, it also demonstrates the political inability of this government to be able to defend the security of its neighbours in the entire state. Because, at the same time that this country is denied the increase in security of this Atlantic axis, it is agreed that in Barcelona 92.9 million are invested in an ERTMS service for the vicinity of that environment. That's the reality. A government unable to defend its neighborhood, a government unable to put security ahead of election benefits. And above all we are before a government that is the national chapuza; a government used to inaugurate in a carpeted manner. The reality of that service and that train is a sham, and we can go down one by one of the issues, which are absolutely regrettable, from the beginning in Vigo to the end in the Coruña. How can you put a service that has two different stations in one of your parts on top of the table, and that each one has to look ahead to where the train is going to take him, wouldn't it be that he ends up in a different place where he left? How could there be no ordinary launchers useful and usable for the neighbors for that situation? How could that station not be expected to be unused by diesel trains for being after a six-kilometre tunnel? What will happen to the future connection to Portugal? We must remember that when the Atlantic axis was compromised, it was thought that it would be from Ferrol to Portugal. We're between Vigo and La Coruña. I don't mean what's going to happen from Coruña to Ferrol. It's impossible to use the train with a minimum of security, but not Portugal either. What about that train where it's incompatible with some of the rigging of two machines, and which, therefore, on a train of the supposed twenty-first century, some convoys have to stop in the middle of the plot so that the use of two machines can be compatible? A train that, for example, keeps an infrastructure, a station, in the Standard that is neither in the Standard nor in the Barbarian, despite its being called the Standard-Barbanza station, which is opened by security personnel and is not connected to the electrical network. A station that has an electrogen group that gets running when the train stops. We're at the point of explaining how things shouldn't be done. All this, in addition to increasing the impact and little seriousness on this infrastructure. This spokesman here has already denounced the impact this infrastructure had, for example, in the Arousa River on its maritime capacity, and since the People's Party we have been called all by saying that was a lie. It turns out now it has been shown that the channel has been modified, the tides have been modified and even the fresh water has been modified in the Arousa stream after the high-speed viaduct has been finished. And not just that. Today, in a 2009 work, they are pouring land from this work at the end of the Arousa River without the environmental impact of this greenery – let's say. So we're dealing with a number of issues that are completely uncontrolled, and with little planning, that question the possibility of this being a 21st century train. But let's go further, let's go further, why do you break the rules? Why don't you change the price down when the distance between some of the routes has been reduced? There is a decree that sets between the kilometers the price of tickets. Why didn't they? What do you say what happens when we spend the electoral period on the tickets of this plot? Will it be possible for a citizen, a student, a worker, to keep paying these tickets when they put the real price of the service, when they spend the election period, and you get the price of that service? What will happen to the current intermodality situation? Because that intermodality is impossible in Vigo, it's impossible in Vilagarcia, it's impossible in almost every station on the axis. How will you understand and how will you improve that situation that causes those people who use the bicycle as a means of transport, and then the train, to have real difficulties to use it today, especially because they have to call and ask what kind of train will come and pick them up to see whether or not they can ride the bike? What are you going to do with those questions? What will they do about the failure to comply with the European Directive 2004/49 on safety? We're in a situation of absolute disarray. We therefore ask that it return to normality, that we consider the need to provide this service of its security, and above all, above all, we dismantle the fallacy argument of the People's Party. If you defend that security isn't necessary, why are you going to sue her for within three years? If it's not necessary, why will they put it on the table? What is it then, if it's not necessary? This defuses any argument from the People's Party, and clearly shows that the only objective of its previous inauguration was to try to improve election results that in the end were catastrophic because the people of this country are not idiotic, the people of this country know when they are fooling them, and the Atlantic axis is an example of how it has been attempted again to deceive this citizenship by making a commitment to public transport that is not such and that it will prevent thousands, tens of thousands, of citizens of this country from using the train for their trips; that it will end up transporting around; that it will prevent people of Roundola, that people of Pattern, that people of Cesures, can move to their jobs, and even their places of study, with a train, with a public service. So we've proposed a measure that is simply to transfer to the central government the need for it to meet its commitment, and its commitment is what it said in 2013, that's what it proposed when they came to announce the infrastructure, that it would be equipped with timely and committed security measures, that is, with the ERTMS system. I hope to know what the position of the People's Party is, if it will once again turn their backs on the needs of the neighbours, or if the People's Party is simply going to try to justify the unjustifiable. And, above all, if you're able to prove here that from the moment that elections were made, you're going to continue that service at the same cost as it is now, because it's the big question that thousands of users of this service are asking. How long are you going to continue with that deception? So our proposal is just to tell our citizenry that he can safely use a service. I want to remember that not long ago we moved here as there was an unsafe aerodrome, without a license, operating alongside these tracks as well. They told us everything, too, and it had to be the ADIF himself who said it was incompatible with the use of that aerodrome with the plot of the Atlantic axis. When we said it here, we were denied, and now it turns out it was true. Just as it is true what we say, that you, simply by an electoral calculation, put our people and our neighborhood at risk. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u100	Thank you, Mr. Fajardo. Intervention of the groups. Joint Parliamentary Group. Mrs. Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u101	As the spokesman for the Alternative Gaga has already said, the rush to inaugurate the railway line of the Atlantic axis is the cause of the deficiencies found in it. Security breaches that – as has already been said – respond to a total and absolute lack of sensitivity to our people, who have suffered a tragic train accident just because they do not count on these security measures. It is also a failure to comply with something that was made public, which was a commitment to citizenship at that time, a commitment by the Government, both the State and the Government of Greece, which leads me to wonder how much the words of the PP governments are worth. Before, when most people couldn't read or write, people's commitments, businesses, they were hand-in-hand, speaking, and that was worth it above all. Today the People's Party doesn't even have enough written in a law. They don't care what they want. Commitments to citizenship are null and useless, even when – as in situations like this – they affect the people in a very special way. Of all the security systems that could have this high-speed line, it has the most precarious, which use the neighboring lines, which is not adapted for the high-speed lines. Renfe, moreover, has already warned the drivers of a series of irregularities and limitations that they have on the new Santiago-Vigo line. Existence of trace points requiring maximum attention to prevent risks due to deficiencies in security measures. There are eleven singular points that are at risk for driving because of the poor visibility of signals, which need to be changed from place to place so that drivers can see them. If a driver did not see them, Asfa would stop the train line, but Adif has already admitted that the situation of many of these Asfa ballasts is improved and that many are not usable. As was the case in Angrois in the accident plot, which was not automatically controlled before the accident, the drivers must go check out the mile points that go over and collide them with the books. Renfe thus turns his professionals into security officials, trying to circumvent his own responsibility. As already said, almost two years ago he was engaged, but the electoral rush led us to this situation. At some points of this line it is not allowed to reach the speed of 250 kilometers per hour, and – as the AGE spokesman has already said – often have to stop in half of nothing in order to follow its path. In the question I asked, the government was talking about 37 tunnels with more than 59.2 kilometers, 38% of the way, and their safety. If the security measures were put in place, the new measures which, after multiple accidents in Europe, made international obligations and effective safety systems for evacuation cases if there is a fire in a tunnel. I didn't get the advisor's answer, so we still don't know if the security measures in the tunnels -- long tunnels, like the one in Madroa -- are installed or not. Besides, I wonder what do the Greeks and the Galicians of their Government think, that they are again at a serious and avoidable risk? How do you think you value the Greeks and the Greeks that the Government of Greece looks elsewhere and let it once again open a railway line without the necessary security measures? How do you understand that? So people paid him on May 24, and he'll make him pay again, because, of course, you're not thinking about people and people's safety, they're thinking about business. A system without personnel, with machines that don't work. Today we came from Vigo all free on the train, because the machines didn't work and we didn't pay tickets.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u102	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u103	I'm going to finish. A survey they're doing at the stations, where they ask about whether you work in private or in public, but they don't ask about the necessary frequencies, about the necessary schedules. A genuine rejection of the Government of the People's Party that we could see the other day in the debate of road laws, where all the amendments I tabled were rejected, which were conclusions of the Committee on Road Safety. So there's only one question, for whom do you rule and legislate? Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u104	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u105	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we have a debate which, from the point of view of the Galician Nationalist Block, has two plans. One very important, the security that the German railway system has; and I think we have reasons, unfortunately, to be concerned about this matter, because in our country there has been a terrible accident that has made it manifest how security cuts have dramatic consequences. We continue to be on the side of the victims, understanding that not only are they able to reach the words of support, but it is necessary to repair; and to repair the victims we must also seek the truth. Unfortunately, in this Parliament, the People's Party has been on the contrary of what the victims are asking for, and has always stood against the fact, that it is investigated, that the causes are clarified, and above all that decisions are made to prevent such situations from repeating themselves. Unfortunately, what we are testing is how, in fact, what we want is not to go to the truth, and we continue to comment on mistakes and we continue to give a second treatment to our country's railway system. This is linked to the second question that for the BNG it is important to point out when we talk about the railway, and it's as if the second deal to Galicia is manifesting itself. The consideration that citizens of this country for the People's Party, for state governments, have no right to have railway lines in the same conditions as they have in a good part of the state. And I think this is also very important that we signal it today in this debate on rail safety. We have to have in the Spanish state the first AVE lines opened in 1992, and 25 years later Galicia continues without AVE. One of the issues that raised that terrible accident is that the state said, and the officials of Renfe, that we weren't talking about AVE, that that wasn't a high-speed line. And now, in the election campaign, we have once again the People's Party and the Government of the State propaganda that the high speed would be inaugurated between Santiago de Compostela, La Coruña e Vigo, and actually what we have and a successor, because there are no AVE speeds or AVE benefits or, really, a real bet to adapt the railway to the needs of our country. We have a line that has improved in one part of its plot, but that in the configuration given by the State does not have a service provision according to Galicia's needs. We understand that here there is a shared responsibility by different governments of the state, who have designed a modernisation of the railway in our country designed to arrive soon in Madrid but not to solve internal communication problems; that in addition, by saving a few million, they have escaped from security measures, and now there is a very uncertain future with regard to the modernization of the railway in Galicia. The PP, with the convolence of the Galician Union, has already told us that there will be no modernization of the railway line La Coruña-Ferrol. It is also not a priority for you to have the southern exit of Galicia, the connection with Portugal, and in particular with Porto, which would be fundamental to our economy, because you know the weight that this has in the economy of Galicia and the importance of enhancing relations within this northern Galician region of Portugal. We know that this is not part of the priorities, and all this always with Mr. Feijóo's complicity, that day yes and day also reminds us that his main concern is not to be a problem for Mr. Rajoy, even though this has disastrous consequences for our country. And you have, because Galicia's political subordination is very expensive to us, has a high cost in resources and also in pain and suffering, as we have seen in this case of what we're talking about, and especially in the absence of a future perspective. Galicia is a people, Galicia is a nation, which deserves equal treatment. The centralism of Madrid, the Spanish centralism, does not guarantee an equal treatment. Railroad is a paradigmatic example of how the centralization of competences discriminates against our country. If you see the high-speed map in Galicia, you'll see how we're an island where we're given a second deal. And I would also like the PP gentlemen to tell us that it seems to you that the new lines that are being auctioned are no longer double-tracked, no more electrification. What are we really talking about right now?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u106	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u107	We are going to support this initiative, because it coincides with what is being defended by the BNG, with the positions we have already denounced, and above all because it also seems to us that, by continuing to condemn Galicia to have a second railway system, it demonstrates the role that you want for our country. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u108	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Socialist Parliamentary Group. Mr. Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u109	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning to all. Mr. Fajardo, the storyteller of empty promises of content, and the commitments which Mr. Feijóo's government has also failed, would give to a marathoner full of monographs in this House. The theme that we are discussing at this point on the agenda is one of those matters that would be part of that storytelling, but which also shows the frivolity with which some high positions of the People's Party, both here and in Madrid, by action and by default, exercise their responsibilities – or perhaps irresponsibility – based on a subject as delicate as it was the sinister of Angrois. I know that I'm going to repeat myself, and I'm going to do it prematurely, because there are attitudes in politics, and especially in some politicians, that we have to air permanently to remove social consciousness and that it has a social cost in the form of political dissipation for the actors of these attitudes. This non-compliance, which is part of this countless narrative of unmet promises and commitments of the People's Party governments, here and in Madrid, has a special casuistic, at the time of announcement of the commitment, by the foundation of the commitment itself, and by the message to the society of that commitment. Thus, the commitment was announced that Adif would advance the initial forecasts of installing the ERTMS system in the Atlantic axis. The forecasts were 2018, and the new commitment was 2014-2015, matching the post in service of the Atlantic Axis A Coruña-Vigo. It is announced through the mouth of the Secretary of Infrastructure, Mr Rafael Catalá, on 4 October 2013, 72 days after the fall of Angrois. The commitment is founded on a unanimous request from society: that there should never be another Englishman again. For that, Mr. Catalá expresses – and I literally read –: "There will be one before and after the crash of Angrois." I know I was repetitive, because I wanted, in addition, to be, because every repetition will be little to know the reality of the facts and to urge the punishment of the same facts. A year and a half after the engagement of Mr. Rajoy's Government, the railway line of the Atlantic A Coruña-Vigo axis is put into service. On that same day, ERTMS system is noticed not to be installed. That same day, there is a new uncompromising commitment from Mr. Rajoy. On that same day, the reality of the facts refutes Mr. Catalá's verborrhea. Once again – another – the commitments and announcements of popular governments reflected as lies in the realities of the facts. The announcement of the contest for the installation of ERTMS on this line only shows the attitude of the People's Party: new announcements to try to cover up the lies of previous commitments. Ladies and gentlemen, the railway line The Coruña-Vigo has not installed the ERTMS system since its in-service is serious. It is also serious that Mr. Rajoy's governments and Mr. Feijóo's governments systematically violate their promises and commitments. But the case we're dealing with is of extreme gravity. A high official of the Spanish Government, with the pain of England still latent, deliberately lies to the victims and society with a false announcement and Mr. Feijóo's government shuts up and bestows. Shut up the deceptions of the victims of England and the Greeks and the Greeks. And he licenses, with his silence, to persist in deception. Perhaps for Mr Feijóo, the value of government stability is intended to cover breaches and deceptions, as is the case on this issue. Even applauding the promotion of this liar...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u110	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u111	...the Minister of Justice. Nothing more and thank you very much. We will support the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u112	Thank you very much, Mr. Fernández. People's Parliamentary Group. Mr. Gómez Alonso. From the scene. Give Mr. Gómez Alonso a voice, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u113	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, some of the speakers who spoke before the majority group in the House said that this parliamentary group was frivolous and trivialized on such an important issue as the safety of people. If this parliamentary group were frivolous, or trivialized with this issue, we would obviously not be face-to-face here, because political decisions, or decisions on the functioning of services, politicians, gentlemen, the technicians do not take them. And you should be aware that since 1 April, the institution responsible for railway safety in Spain is the Spanish Railway Safety Agency, and that it has been under that institution of the Spanish Railway Safety Agency with the high-speed line between La Coruña and Vigo. If you think this parliamentary group trivializes, or uses it irresponsiblely, you ask the more than 250,000 users who are using the new high-speed line between La Coruña and Vigo and their degree of satisfaction. There was a 20% increase in the number of users of railway services in Galicia. You ask yourself, and you're going to keep prices? At least as long as the People's Party governs, yes, because it has been approved in a Council of Ministers that high-speed Galician railway services are compulsory for public service, therefore are subsidized. Now, if the People's Party does not rule and theirs come, for we, of course, of theirs will not be able to answer; of ours we will be able to answer. Don't we have railway services according to the 21st century? That's a fallacy, gentlemen! We currently have the best railway services that Galicia has ever had in its history, and with substantial cuts of time. The journey between La Coruña and Vigo is an hour and twenty minutes, and between Santiago is Vigo is fifty minutes; and even the transshipments were adjusted with connection to Ourense. We have the best railway services, Avant and Alvia, and we also have regional services. Regional services arrive at Guixar station, and high-speed services arrive at Urzáiz station. We have a total of fourteen frequencies of areas between A Coruña and Vigo, with stops in Santiago, Vilagarcia and Pontevedra; and fifteen frequencies between Vigo and A Coruña. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we have railway services agreed to the European Union – in the context of the modernisation of the European Union – and in accordance with the needs of the Greeks and the Greeks in the 21st century. With much delay, that is yes, but which are accords, which are appropriate and which are under the supervision of the Spanish Railway Security Agency, to ensure that these are the most suitable for people's safety, that's unquestionable. And you, who both accuse us of frivolizing or trivializing about the matter, should tell me who technically tells me that the digital ASFA system is not a railway safety management system that is not safe. Who can technically say that the ERTMS system is safer than the digital ASFA system? Who can technically say that the ERTMS system is installed because it's safer than the digital ASFA? Ladies and gentlemen, to homogenise rail management systems throughout the European Union, the ERTMS system is installed. The decision to install ERTMS is a decision of the Ministries of Development, or of the governments of Spain, which applies on an additional and voluntary basis, to have a homogeneous railway management system of the trans-European rail network. You can believe this or not, but ask the technicians who know about matter, because we, at least, when we talk about the safety of people and railways, we ask subjects technicians, and that's why ERTMS is installed. And by the way, you know that Spain is one of the countries that has most miles of ERTMS lines installed across the European Union. And let me give you an example to finish up, to see if the app is additional and voluntary. The German Government has an important high-speed line between Stockholm and Naples. Well, the truces in the Federal Republic of Germany aren't going to install ERTMS until 2030. It's a decision they make. What's going to happen with those trains? They're going to have to have different systems...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u114	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u115	...to adapt to the security of the lines according to the countries that go, so ERTMS is recommended. You can continue to give a lot of thought to the safety of our railways. There's nothing infallible. But what we're not going to do, because of irresponsibility and trivialization, as you do, is to scandalize people, because that is an absolute lack of respect for the citizens of our country. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u116	Thank you, Mr. Gómez Alonso. Group author of the non-law proposal. Mr. Fajardo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u117	Mr President, since I am scrupulously applying the Rules of Procedure of the House, I would ask that the Rules of Procedure, Rule 162, be applied, and vote after the substance of the debate on this proposal. I'm asking you to pick up the article and I hope you'll have it properly, given that I'm one of the best-known rules because it applies to me with an amazing repressive ability. Mr. Gómez Alonso, the truth is, I don't know if you see me looking like assholes, or the whole citizenship of this country. Because to lay down that opening decisions of trams do the technicians...! I think the English thing made it clear that it wasn't. And on the subject of opening up the Atlantic axis, if you tell me you've been a technician who decided to open himself, without having finished everything, before the election campaign, I'll have to believe it; but, of course, there are also technicians who sign things that are then shown to be inappropriate. If we talk about security issues and you ask me that it's not necessary to put the ERTMS, and we're going to put it in order to homogenize international sections, it's good that you do that, especially because it's a very international frame when we talk about the Vigo-Coruña, and it's impossible that from the station where the high-speed Atlantic axis ends in Vigo comes to Portugal, because there's no connection after that. Okay, but what reality is it? The reality is that you know that this project is much safer, and they made the decision to leave year and half without that project to the user set. And if you also tell me that the degree of satisfaction of the people who use it is great, I'd like you to come with me on some of those trains and ask, and you'd see what satisfaction is, at least, moderate. And when you tell me we're putting Galicia in the best railway situation in your history... Home!, better than in the 19th century safe, or that when he arrived next to my house the first railway to the station of Carril, he might as well be. But if you lived in Cambados, you lived in Ferrol, you lived in the Caraminal People, you lived in Grove, and you wanted to use public transport to get to Santiago, to get to Ferrol or to get to Lugo, tell us if we're at the level of the 21st century or European standards. You've come to say that we're on European rail standards. You're kidding me, aren't you?Oh, my God! You have some affect that I don't know and that makes you say things here that anyone in your judgment would be unable to say. Because to say here that any citizen of this country has the rail transport standards that they have in Europe is a barbarity. Of course, if you live in Vilagarcia and want to come to Santiago, surely. But in any other city in this country that isn't in those four stations, it's impossible to move by public transport anywhere else in Galicia. And for that, in addition, you do it with a hat of Pepe Gotera and Otilio's own, trying to convince us that this is finished when we have a station – as that article so good, sometimes to, sometimes not – that it's not even connected to the electrical network. You're kidding me, right? You're an irresponsible man, and I hope you don't have any day to swallow your words for defending the indefensible here in the face of a security breach situation that is obvious and that all users recognize. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u118	Thank you. We are not going to proceed to the vote. No, we're not, no. [[Protests.]] But you, who are an informed Member, should read Article 162 well. Rule 162 states that non-legislative proposals must be voted on, which does not say when. Yes, yes. [[Protests.]] No, no, I'm sorry, this was already discussed at the Speaker's Board and the corresponding information has already been given. [[Protests.]] [[Interruptions.]] [[Interruptions.]] [[Interruptions.]] By the way, we are voting the non-law propositions together at the end because it was implemented in the Bipartisan Government. Yes, yes, it was; a president of this House was exactly what he did. [[Laughter]] So we went on to discuss the following proposal, not the law. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Nationalist Block Galego, at the initiative of Da Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo and D. Cosme Eladio Pombo Rodríguez, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in relation to the annual evaluation of the practical results of the application of Decree 79/2010 of 20 May for multilingualism in non-university education in Galicia, provided for in its additional provision fifth
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u119	This motion for a non-law amendment by the Socialist Parliamentary Group was tabled.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u120	Mrs. Pontón has the floor for her defense.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u121	Now that we're in times when the PP defends the Bipartite, maybe it's a good time to be able to adopt this initiative. An initiative that I want to read textually because it seems important to me that we know today in the House what the Galician Nationalist Block proposes. We propose to urge the Board of Galicia to comply with the additional fifth provision of Decree 79/2010 of 20 May for multilingualism in the non-university education of Galicia, which provides that, on an annual basis, the Education Council will evaluate the practical results of the application of this decree. And we say that, in line with this additional provision adopted by a rule in the Council of the European Union which presides over Mr Feijóo, within one month, the scientific studies necessary to assess the linguistic competence of the student in non-university education are initiated in collaboration with the universities in Greece. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, in order to prevent us here today from being distracted by what we are debating, even though we are against this decree, we understand that it is basic and essential that we evaluate the consequences of this decree in relation to language teaching. We have to say that we consider it to be a fraud of law that the PP, during the five years of the observance of this decree, failed to comply with the forecasts put in it. By the way, a prediction that I think I remember – I didn't find it in the hemerothecs, but if I have that in memory – is that, when we discussed here, the Government itself said it was the safeguard that there was some problem in the application of this decree could be changed. We see how for five years they have failed to comply with this additional provision because they certainly have no interest in whether, from a scientific point of view, you know what impact this decree has on language competition in Spanish, Greek and English. We also believe, therefore, that it is irresponsibility that is not made, because any manager of a public policy will have to know the impact that the decrees he approves have on the education system. We believe this is one of the basic issues that should normally be implemented in public management, and we don't understand the negative and closure of the People's Party to do so. In addition, there is a legal reason, too, which seems relevant to us in this debate. There is a law, which is the Law of linguistic normalization, which even what we know – although the People's Party is constantly violent – is not repealed. And that law establishes a very clear mandate also regarding the learning of languages that are official in Galicia. And it is that one of the obligations – not something that can be met if you want, but one of the obligations – of the education system is to guarantee equal competition in both official languages in the student coming out of the educational system. This has never been fully and thoroughly evaluated, either. There is a study done – I believe – by people who from a scientific point of view will not dare you to refuse that what you tell us is that there was a problem before this decree was applied, and that the Greek student had a lower language competency in Greek. This has been recognized by the Secretary-General of Linguistic Policy himself. So we have an education system, a formulation right now, which does not guarantee a basic principle, which is that people, whether young or young in this country, have equal linguistic competence. There's clear discrimination in the English language in that assessment. So a right of all the people living in this country is being violated, which is to be able to use, to know, the English language. This is what's happening right now in Galicia. But we may wonder why the Galician Union refuses to comply with the additional provision that the government itself of Feijóo put in that decree. We can think that the Government has a compulsive violation virus of legislation, it can be; we see how there are many practices of the Education Council out of legality. But the truth is that we understand that behind this refusal of the People's Party, behind this refusal of Mr. Feijóo's Board, what there is an attempt not to get to know the truth and an attempt not to know why this so shaky plurilingualism is only a bluff, a lie, and, in any case, it's only serving to continue privileged private education above public education. At the same time, it must be said that it is the great lie that the People's Party has tried to hide and cover up a policy that sought only to satisfy an ultra-minority of this country which considers that Greek is toxic and therefore put to the service of a bilingual Galician strategy with a false argument, which was that in order to study foreign languages we had to question the teaching of Greek. What we see today is how there is no multilingualism in teaching, how it continues to attack the English language, and how it really all is just a joke from the People's Party. We can analyze what's behind that label of multi-lingual centers that the PP has so much talked about. So what we see is that there is a very small part of the educational system in this country that is incorporated into this plurilingualism program; there are 222 centers. Most of these centers are private. We have to around 52% of the integrated centres are private, compared to 48% that are public. That doesn't mean equality, it means that private education is being given a clear and round-the-board privilege. In Galicia there are around 20% of private centers. If we do a calculation, we'll see how about 4 out of every 10 private centers are inside that label of multilingual centers, while only 1 out of every 10 public centers are incorporated into this system. But deep behind the multilingual center label, what do we have? Well, in the few public centers that are integrated, in most cases there is only one matter being imparted in English. We also know that this often means that what is given in that subject is vocabulary; it's not that there really is a division of that subject in that language. And this is almost beneficial, because, from a pedagogical point of view, what is being tested is also that it's like even when you tried to implement English, for example, in mathematics, that language competition in mathematics went down alarmingly. If there are centers that have stopped offering that subject because it was to the detriment of the learning of that knowledge, which is also important – I suppose, they will understand their lordships – for this student. And it's also funny that there's a very different implantation in private centers; in those centers there are in many cases between two, three English subjects, and it's also curious that, of many of the subjects that are allowed in English, one is exactly Middle Knowledge, which is one of the decrees that must be given in Greek. In any case, we also see how all this is to sink into a gap between the centers, to sink into a gap between public and private schools and, clearly, into a strategy that is aimed at getting more and more into the English language. We understand that at this moment there is no scientific study made that suggests that this type of model that has implanted the People's Party in an unequal, disorganized and discriminatory way for public education, is being better than what was before. Why don't you want to analyze language competition? Perhaps because it is revealed that multilingual centres are not having better language competition in a foreign language; perhaps because it is revealed that the gap between linguistic competition in Greek is lower than linguistic competition in Spanish; and because all this great lie of this multilingualism is dismantled that we once again say it is no more than a scam of Mr. Núñez Feijóo to this country. I also think it's interesting to look at other measures that this government has put in place in the name of this coveted knowledge of English, such as linguistic immersion. We see, and it seems to us very well, that the People's Party is now in favour of linguistic immersion, but we see that the only thing that concerns them is that they don't show up in English, because if it's linguistic immersion in English, you say they support it enthusiastically. What's one of these new bets? In an order of help...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u122	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u123	...which is taking place annually, in which it is said – I am allowed, Madam President; simply because I feel very important for the debate – that language immersion stays will be financed in a center of Galicia. In the order of aid... that must have given them shame to put that center to which these aids are taken... the center that Fenosa opened in the Pearls. I suppose it's like Mr. Núñez Feijóo is paying some favors. In any case, it's curious that some of the rooms that are paying Galician Board for a week have a higher price than you can see today on the Internet that this center offers in summer for 12 days. I mean, we're paying from the public and subsidizing public money higher prices than those offered in high season in this center. We see that the only thing that's doing the Galician Union with this kind of help...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u124	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u125	...is guaranteeing a succulent business to Fenosa. In our calculations, the seasons of the Galician Union, between what it pays to Junta and what mothers and parents pay, are around EUR 400,000 in turnover for this company.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u126	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u127	The truth is, there's nothing wrong with these kinds of performances. In short, we say today that they evaluate competition, that they do what they put there, because it doesn't make any sense that they refuse to know what it is...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u128	Thank you very much, Mrs. Pontón. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u129	...the impact of this decree. To us...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u130	Mrs. Pontón, thank you very much. Intervention of parliamentary groups. Socialist Group, Mrs. Burgo López.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u131	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good morning, gentlemen. We will, of course, support the non-law proposal presented by the Nationalist Block of Wales. And I say of course because it is difficult to deny the adoption of a bill that says only that an additional provision – in this case, the additional provision fifth – of a decree is complied with; that is to say, the order that is expressed in a decree, which does not derive from a higher legislation than that of the Council of Galicia, or from this Parliament, which does not, of course, derive from any imposition of opposition, because, in fact, we do not agree with this decree called plurilingualism. Therefore, it is a provision that he wrote and that he approved nothing more than the Council of Galicia because it seemed to him - imaginable - appropriate. Now that the Council of Galicia refuses to do something that has approved it is absolutely unacceptable, and not inexplicable, that is the problem, because it is unacceptable but has a clear explanation. You have an explanation because they have no interest in evaluating the actual repercussions of this decree. They don't have it, first of all, because at no time did they have any desire with this decree to increase knowledge of the Greek language, not even really to guarantee the equal teaching of the two languages. It was political reasons we all knew who stepped forward in drafting this decree. And what they know, as we all know, and as the experts also know in this matter, is that the decree is having very negative results both for learning Greek and for learning foreign languages. That's what happens when educational reforms are made for political reasons and, therefore, spure motives, ideological reasons, and not for real educational reasons based on scientific knowledge. The Greek universities, which, like us, do not understand what is happening with this additional fifth provision of the Multilingual Decree, in 2014 – less than a year ago – have offered themselves to carry out this necessary assessment, in collaboration with the Galician Union, marked in the decree. They offered themselves for their technical competence – which I imagine no one puts into doubt – and offered themselves under an idea, under a principle that is absolutely logical and that should preside over all public policies. They tell universities textually: no public policy can be seriously built without a scientific and transparent evaluation of results. It's logical, we need to know what the results of this Multilingualism Decree are in order to determine whether it needs to be changed or whether it needs to be maintained. This offer from the universities was rejected – rather or rejected – that there was no answer – in this policy between sovereignty and bad education directly that often has the Galician Union – at least by where I know it – with other cultural and educational sectors. The same happened when universities gave the alarm voice about the growth of citizens who do not speak at any time and do not even know the Greek and who simply deserved – from someone with so much technical knowledge – the lack of respect for the Council of Galicia. So we already have someone who can do that evaluation with all the guarantees, which are the universities, as Mrs. Pontón says, and the universities are ready. There's nothing but the People's Party to comply with the law. As far as I don't have much more time for the amendment, Mrs Pontón, we just want to say that it seems appropriate that this report, as far as these studies are concerned, can be debated in this Parliament, and that we hear the opinion of all the political groups on it and on the results...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u132	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u133	...–completed– achieved. That's just our intention. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u134	Thank you very much. Joint Group, Mrs. Iglesias Sueiro.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u135	Good morning, ladies. Your educational policies are a pity. They put rural education at third-world levels, dismantled public school in cities, did not look after or repair facilities – we don't say to renew – they don't cover down work, cut staff and budget, put up revalids with standardized evidence to eight-year-old English girls, and they create the Multilingualism Law – law that today they don't want to present to us the evaluation result that the same law envisages; it's logical, they're going to present to us! – It's public and it's known that today neither multilingualism nor English nor French nor German. What matters, according to his Spanish nationalist idea... is Spanish, Spanish, Spanish. So the law of plurilingualism, lords and ladies of the PP, a disaster. Yes, she is waiting to see the children of Greece in rural unitary schools acquiring skills in prayer, practicing chess; that is if the master is not organizing the most complicated books banks that you are developing and that are again in war with parent associations. All very modern, all very cool, very grand and far from reality, with that obsession for the grandeur of which the right hand of all life strikes. We have the example in Gaiás: great and useless. On the other hand, I don't know if they know, but, in fact, I'll tell them. A child growing up in a real bilingual context, which is not diglossic, will have in the future much more ease in learning foreign languages, or that's what experts say. The things, lords and lords, will have to do them well, with tenderness, which they would say in Limares, my village; with sentient and with gold-men-to. It's not worth legislating to the gallery, advertising in the subsidized media for later, as you don't believe in what they're legislating and everything doesn't matter, except the economic benefit, not fulfilling. They're cheating, as they're saying. And you also claim that families are delighted to be able to choose which language their daughters learn. And I cordially tell them that you are wrong and that besides the ideal it would be not to have the problem of having to choose, because there exists and works a public and quality model for all; a quality school, a public, rural school and also in cities where girls learn on an equal footing in both official languages to be good citizens and to know and value their own; a school where creativity, artistic education, emotional intelligence and universal human values are valued and enhanced above the theory of effort and memory. How sad and boring they must have spent the hard ants they refused and abandoned the singing cigarette! Be serious, ladies and gentlemen, to derogate this law as it shows that you are willing to carry out policies with a vision of the future and of the country, which, on the other hand, is your obligation. I support the initiative. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u136	Thank you very much, Mrs. Churches. Parliamentary Group of Alternative Left Gallega. You have the word of Mr. Ramón Vázquez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u137	Good morning to all and to all. We were talking yesterday in this House of the Agonic State about the parliamentaryism of our country and the lack of representativeness of democratic institutions, reduced by this regime to a kind of theatre of political fiction. And the fact is that the debates on the situation in this House are a clear example of this situation. Although all organizations, institutions, pedagogical movements, associations and political formations repeatedly denounce the situation of regression in the number of speakers and areas of use in Greek, the Government insists on denying it and even relativizing it, and it does one debate after another, it will surely do so today as well. Not only that, in the face of this situation, this House was unable, absolutely incapable of reaching an agreement to constitute something as revolutionary as a parliamentary study commission, a simple parliamentary commission of study to assess the actual situation of the Greek in the face of the discredit shown by the Government on the data of the Galego Institute of Statistics, the Royal Gallega Academy, the University, etc. But because of the vote and the veto of the People's Party, of the majority group, that study commission could not be carried out. Imagine, with the important social debate about the situation of the Greek, with the complaints of the university community about the return situation of our language, with all the data I have referred to, the People's Party, a majority group – I insist – vetoes the establishment of a simple study commission. Social concern for the Greek – that will not be denied – is a consensus to which the People's Party remains absolutely alien, or that seems to be true. But the institutional crisis that we are suffering is not just because parliaments work behind citizenship; the institutional crisis that afflicts us, which destroys our country, happens because we have governments that reflect even the ability not to accept the standards that they themselves approve; a contradiction difficult to stop for any democracy. The Greek Government has passed the Plurilingualism Decree, and has done it by a handful of votes, has done it to satisfy the most reactionary part of our country's linguistics. He drew upon the political and social consensus reached with the Linguistic Normalization Plan, but before the Law of Linguistic Normalization, adopted unanimously in this House; a consensus – we remember – reached with effort and with resignation, as if any agreement were reached, and which established in practice a model of bilingualism in our country, in a situation, in which the Greek had a situation – and has a situation – of weakness; an equal treatment in theory but that when there are two languages in contact, one of them being the language of prestige, as it is the Spanish, as it was and is the Spanish, because it produces some damage that we can all check in a diglossic context for historical reasons. It turns out that scientific evidence that what needs a reduced and regression language to be able to survive is positive differentiation policies. Therefore, this linguistic egalitarian theory makes it possible for the areas of use of the Welsh language to be smaller and smaller. And that's the situation. That's the data we all know. In Galicia it was and it's practically impossible to see a film in the film in Greek, but it's also seen a film in Greek on a home DVD in our home. In Galicia it was and it is virtually impossible to read a newspaper printed in the English language. In Galicia it was and it's practically impossible to access the service of justice in Greek, which is a right. But the most definitive example of the current crisis of representation of our institutions is that the Government itself violates the laws it approves in solitary applying its parliamentary roller. It is the case of the Multilingualism Decree, which, as the proposed group has rightly said, contains an additional fifth provision which obliges the Government to submit an impact assessment report of the Pllingualism Decree itself and which the Government repeatedly refuses to submit. Your evaluation reports of the decree of multilingualism?, we will have to ask ourselves eternally – imaginative. How can we question the data on the state of regression of the Greek language when it is not fulfilled by the obligation set out in the decree...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u138	Please finish, Mr. Vázquez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u139	...to make an impact assessment report? So that's what this House is going to be doing, presenting initiatives to demand that the Government simply comply with the law. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u140	Thank you very much. Popular Group, Mr. Baamonde.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u141	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good morning, gentlemen. Let me begin with what the Song of My Cid said: God, what a good vessel if thou forget good lord! The truth is that it would be good to go to the Greek language if the effort here made to use it as an element of confrontation against the Government had been set up to defend it in a positive way – as the people's defender did yesterday – if he had sought consensus and put himself into the social promotion of the language. [[Applause]] And it's really this initiative that brings today's debate to the Nationalist Block Galego is actually a toast to the sun and it has no other object to maintain that criterion of confrontation through opposition to the decree of plurilingualism, which, by the way, must be one of the few banners of attachment that already remain to nationalism and which, by the way, must also engage some, but which is seen to be increasingly unravelling the more. You look, as far as the decree of multilingualism is concerned, allow me to insist on something that seems obvious to everyone except the blind eye of nationalism and, as far as we can see, also the wrong eye of socialism. And what's that? That the current problems of Greek are not primarily in teaching, but are in other centers of attention, especially in the disaffectation of young people and in the disaffectation that occurs in urban surroundings, which causes the rupture of the generational transmission... [[Mr. Beiras Torrado pronounces words that are not perceived.]] That, Mr. Beers...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u142	Sir Beers!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u143	...trust the report of the IGE..
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u144	Please do it! You're not the one who has to say it. Please do it!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u145	And that also gives you the opinion...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u146	Please do it!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u147	...of all the experts in the matter, of those among them who don't seem to be...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u148	You want me to call him in order? Please do it!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u149	... Mr. Beiras. And that's what they say as well... the reports of the courts of justice, those courts that are serious... when they ratify their criteria and that they are colonial elements... [[Applause]] [[Mr. Beiras Torrado pronounces words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u150	A call to order, Mr. Beiras. He's going with a call to order.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u151	...when they don't get their hair what they really say, as is happening with the decree of plurilingualism. As for the accusation of non-compliance with the duty of assessment, allow me to begin by denying the bigger one. That annual evaluation is being made. She's doing the Council of Culture and Education, which is the person responsible for this function, and she's doing it through the Directorate-General for Evaluation and University Quality; she's doing it through the data provided by the educational centres themselves, which load them in her management programs; and she's doing it through the evaluation of various sub-competences, namely grammatical and lexical, which are the ones that better understand the possibility and the conditions of language use by the student. As for the information, Mr. Vázquez, the decree does indeed lay down the need for evaluation; it does not say how to publish that assessment. But it is not surprising that this issue was brought to the House precisely when last year, specifically at the plenary session of 14 and 15 July 2014, the Education Adviser himself at that time, Mr Vázquez, published these data from the Decree of Plurilingualism and subsequently ratified it in Commission 4th, Education, the Secretary-General for Linguistic Policy; data which, of course, has come to confirm that the system works correctly and that there is balance in the use of co-official languages. And also with an accolades: here some complain about multilingual centers, but in their initiatives they do not cease to demand the empowerment of them. So as far as the request for collaboration with universities to carry out this evaluation is concerned, let me underline some things. First of all, according to the provisions of additional provision 5 and also the provisions of additional provision 2 of Decree 79/2010, multilingualism, competence to carry out the evaluation in primary and compulsory secondary education to which it belongs is precisely the Council of Education, which is exercising it and is carrying it out. And the normalization groups of universities, on the other hand, what they have assigned, logically, is the work of normalization in their field of competence, which is the university institution; therefore, located outside non-university education and therefore outside the scope of competence of the Decree of Plurilingualism. I would like to underline in this regard one circumstance: that is precisely not in the university field where the best data on the use of Greek appear to be reflected. That's probably why Mrs. Pontón on her initiative alludes to that duty of collaboration, but then she didn't defend it with much emphasis on this rostrum. We must also underline, Mrs Burgo, that there is no official request from universities about it. What is there is a proposal for work done at the Interuniversity Commission on June 19, 2013, but which, in principle, does not go beyond that circumstance. I mean, we understand that this partnership proposal cannot be accepted, firstly, because it is not necessary, since the evaluation is already being carried out. Secondly, because there is no inconvenience in a timely collaboration with some university department, but what doesn't seem logical or coherent is to assign to the university system a general faculty of supervision or control of students in non-university education, and it doesn't seem logical and proceeding because that would be an invasion of competences that is absolutely unacceptable...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u152	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u153	...with regard to the current legal framework. For that obvious reason, I mean we are going to vote against this proposal. Nothing else, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u154	Thank you very much, Mr. Baamonde. Group author of the non-law proposal. You have the floor to Mrs. Pontón Mondelo. Give your voice to the scene.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u155	Thank you very much, Madam President. I want to begin by saying that we are going to accept the amendment of the Socialist Group because we understand that it is a matter of common sense and we did not put it in our text. But it is clear that the common sense is absent from this Parliament, and even today we see as the empty PP of all meaning the legality that is in force. To tell us that it is a toast to the sun to require this Parliament to make an assessment of linguistic competition is to leave this Parliament out of any useful and practical sense in a democratic system. They show that you have no respect for laws, parliaments or citizens, because it is absolutely indecent, indecent... I listened to Mr. Baamonde quietly... [[Mr. Baamonde Díaz utters words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u156	Mr. Baamonde, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u157	...in spite of his provocations.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u158	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u159	Yes, I think we should have some respect when we talk in general in Parliament.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u160	Quiet, please. You have the word Mrs. Pontón that in fact...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u161	Thank you very much. And I'm not going into the provocations where he wants us to fall into the People's Party. We here today ask that language competition be evaluated, which is something that sets the decree itself, because it is not to evaluate and analyze a report in which we say how many subjects yes, how many not, which then does not occur on many occasions if things really are like this. The People's Party's Meeting established a procedure for assessing the level of competition of official languages in primary and compulsory secondary education; it is established in this decree. Why don't you want to evaluate it? Why don't you want to know the truth? Why are they refusing to approve language competition in English as well? Because I imagine it will be interesting to know – to you, that it seems that they care so much about knowledge in English – whether or not this system is working. The data we put here is the data of the DOG, and they're demolition. Their plurilingualism is a fallacy, because really for the only thing it serves is to hide a strategy of uprooting the Greek language that was already in a situation of greatest difficulty. So when you refuse to approve, when you use arguments – let me tell you – as picturesque as it is to say that accepting an invitation of collaboration with universities to evaluate the impact of the decree is to invade the competences of the Galician University System is that it is grotesque; it is of course to believe that we have a level of intelligence of -140. So, here in front of what we are now is one more step in non-compliance with regulations, with legality, in standing above the rights of principles and in believing that laws are about to be breached. This is [...] practiced by the People's Party. [[(By order of the President and in the wake of Article 106(3) of the Galician Parliament's Rules of Procedure, this expression is withdrawn from the Journal of Sessions.)]] Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u162	Mrs. Pontón, I ask you to withdraw the matter, if it seems to you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u163	I, if I may, to clarify the meaning...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u164	No, no... Quiet, please. I didn't ask him to clarify the meaning... [[Mrs. Pontón Mondelo speaks words that are not perceived.]] Mrs. Pontón, I didn't ask you to clarify the meaning, I just asked you to remove that expression. All I asked for is that. Well, if you don't take it away, I take it away... I have the right to withdraw what seems to me, Mr. Beers, and I have the right to send you a second call to order as you don't shut your mouth. [[Mrs. Pontón Mondelo speaks words that are not perceived.]] [[Mr. Beiras Torrado pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Please, because you have no right to speak right now. [[Mr. Beiras Torrado pronounces words that are not perceived.]] G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da María Monserrat Prado Cores and D. Francisco Jesús Jorquera Caselas, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in connection with the Computer Law Project of the Labour and Social Security Inspection that is being processed at the Congress of Deputies
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u165	No amendments have been tabled to this non-law proposal. You have the floor to Mrs. Prado Cores.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u166	Good morning. The Galego Nationalist Block brings here an initiative that I suppose is the one that the People's Party is disgusted with because with it, what we want is that the German Government exercises such a German government and claims in front of the Spanish Government, in front of the Central Government, rights to our country. We are at a time when capital is taking advantage of the crisis to sink into an economic, ultra-liberal model, and to put down the whole set of rights and working conditions and living conditions conquered with blood, sweat and tears by the working class after years of struggle of the worker movement; an economic model that aims to increase its profit margin and continue the process of concentration of wealth in few hands. And for that concentration of wealth in few hands, they need decision-making centers to be in few hands and as far away as possible, the most inaccessible to the control of the citizenship of the peoples to whom these measures are directed. The farther and less identifiable those decision-making centers are the harder for the people to ask for responsibilities. And, in this context of recentralisation, in the context of the accumulation of decision-making centres, at the end of March, the Spanish Government approved the Computer Law on Labour Inspection and Social Security, which is currently being dealt with in the Congress of Deputies. This bill is a further example of the recentralizing will of the Spanish Government, which, by the way, has been consulted and negotiated with state-level trade union organizations but not with representatives, for example, in Galicia, as is the IGC, violating the Trade Union Freedom Act. As I said, as this bill is presented, it does not establish any mechanisms or procedures for future processes of transfer of the Labour Inspectorate and Social Security. This project closes that path. Cataluña assumed in March 2010 the competences in the field of labour inspection. The Basque Country did it in January 2012. After the transfer, they created the Consortium of the Labour and Social Security Inspectorate in Catalonia and the Basque Labour and Social Security Inspection Board, elements that advanced in the ability to decide and in the capacity to govern both Catalonia and the Basque Country. Galicia is the only autonomous community considered in the Constitution as historical that has not carried out the transfer of this competence. BNG has on numerous occasions claimed the transfer of the Labour Inspectorate and the management of Social Security. He looked at himself during that damn bipartite. But since the People's Party ruled, it hasn't made a single movement in the direction of Galicia's reaching a single more competition to develop government capabilities. I have asked for Aragon, I have requested Canarias, but not Galicia, the People's Party does not consider it necessary to have instruments to act in Galicia. With the project being processed, it is evident that the Spanish Government will close both the process of transfer to other communities and the improvement of existing ones. This intention is made clear when questions such as what is a common goal, what is necessary, an integral and unique conception, what is needed is the principle of unity, such as vertebrate axes of this law; that is, a bill drawn up within the purest and harshest centralism. The bill is that there are overlaps, duplications and even wage differences that value injustice and, of course, find these inefficiencies and duplications to autonomous communities. Once again, the Spanish Government wants to focus on the problems of governments, on the existence of autonomous communities. At the BNG we clearly defend that our future must be able to decide freely on it by the Greeks and the Greeks, and that is why we need to have a government and a parliament with full competence, fully sovereign. We defend and demand that the Government of Galicia play an active role in the demand and assumption of necessary competences for the economic and social development of Galicia, an own, integral and self-centered development. And, within these demands – we have brought other initiatives here – we believe that those mentioned are of the first order, because employment, unemployment, the labour situation, are still the first concern of the Greeks and the Greeks. That is why we put forward this non-law proposal; a proposal in which we urge this Parliament to request the Government of Greece to withdraw this computer bill from the Labour and Social Security Inspection, by creating a framework which will prevent transfers to Galicia of competences, not now or in the future. We demand that the Galician Parliament urge the Greek Government to initiate a process of dialogue and negotiation with the Spanish Government leading to the transfer of this matter. We do so in the belief that a Greek framework of labour relations is essential. In this context where working conditions have deteriorated to unsuspected limits a short time ago, a work of the Labour Inspectorate is essential to monitor the fulfilment of working days, the fulfilment of part-time contracts, overtime, wages received by workers and workers, safety and hygiene conditions at work, disability. The more flexible the work standards are, the more precise the control and the more accurate the work of the Labour Inspectorate. And Galicia needs those tools to be able to defend the Galician working class. It is necessary for the German Government to exercise such a government, and for that, it needs to have those instruments. With this initiative, what we demand, what the Galego Nationalist Block demands, what it claims, is the defense of the right to decide about Galicia, about the things to eat, because the job situation, defending a work worthy of the Greeks and the Greeks, is about the things to eat. We claim sovereignty so that the Greek Government can have a work inspection that is put at the service of defending decent work for the Greeks and for the Greeks. We claim to have Greek institutions in Galicia that have instruments to exercise such institutions, we demand Greek institutions as instruments to carry out policies in the service of the Greeks and the Greeks. It seems to us as little as you can do, and we regret that if you have to come here, that you have to come here to the Nationalist Block of Galicia, to ask the Government of Greece to do what you should do on your own initiative, because what you should do to a Greek government that is considered to be such is not to stay with your arms crossed in the face of the closure of the possibility that we have a real government. It's not that the People's Party Government is no longer asking for competition, it's not that the People's Party Government doesn't bother the least because it has instruments, but that when the Central Government one day yes and the other too...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u167	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u168	...the only thing he does is close the door, recentralize it and make Galicia less sovereign, that the Greek Government has less competences, the People's Party does absolutely nothing since the Government. That is why I call for the support of the House's groups for this initiative, which is nothing other than asking that Galicia continue to have the opportunity to exercise all its potential, and I insist that, at a time when employment remains the greatest concern for the Greeks and the Greeks, having instruments to defend that employment in conditions of dignity, it is the least that the Government should do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u169	Thank you very much, Mrs. Prado. Intervention of parliamentary groups. For the Mixed Group, Mrs. Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u170	Thank you, President. This crisis, in addition to the tremendous destruction of employment, is also producing a huge deterioration in the working conditions of the people who keep it, or those who access it in this context. After the 2012 labour reform, there is nothing that was already established in the Workers' Statute adopted in 1980, and, in order to introduce the legislative changes that have just been adopted, the context of the profound economic crisis we are experiencing has been taken advantage of. Labour law no longer serves the working class, because the current negotiating framework is totally favourable to the interests of the employer. We must establish the structure of collective bargaining in Galicia, decide how agreements relate to others, laying down competition and complementarity rules based on our country's own reality and needs. If society today demands a more participatory democracy, the working class demands participation and control over the negotiating processes of its working conditions. Given the business structure in Galicia, with an absolute predominance of small businesses, this legal provision devotes a totally unfavorable playing field to the working class in Galicia, as it gives all power to an area where the pressure of the employer is stronger and determines towards imposing its conditions. The monthly gross EUR 1,461 collected in Galicia is 10.6% below the average salary of the state, and is the lowest fifth in all autonomous communities. The third annual Adecco Monitor on Wages confirms that, once inflation is calculated, each worker and worker in Galicia experienced in the last lustro a loss of their purchasing power of 5.4 percent. But for women this crisis had more consequences: the first budget splits that suffered the greatest cuts in the budgets of the Union were those directly related to women, such as the Programme for the Conciliation of Work and Family Life, the promotion and protection of women or that of dependency. In the face of this policy provoked by the abandonment of public authorities, perpetuating a system that continues to open cracks between social classes and crafting a sexual division of society and work, which harms women – both in 2011 and in 2011 when it first commemorated on 8 March – for all the discrimination they are suffering, women are fed up. The Labour Adviser, Beatriz Mato, in the interlocution I made on this issue in April, stated in plenary that the Government is watching for workers' and workers' working rights to be met strictly by regulations and that all contracts are exactly as they were signed. The advisor indicated that in 2014 there were 572 performances carried out by the Labour Inspectorate, linked by payroll and late wages. Because, despite the precariousness of the German labour market, the low wages of our country, there are still entrepreneurs who want to steal this misery. So there are companies that, sheltered in the administration's inaction, swindle their workers and workers in various ways: the purchases of uniforms, the loss of rest, the abuse of scholarships, paid extra hours, the non-shifting between work centres, payment of wages in kind, that this is already the last and the full... First was the keeper's employer who tried to pay part of the wages of women working in conservation cans and now is the employer who wants to establish a special salary for youth where part of the salary is paid in kind; that is, an indecent attack that the Government itself allows and protects. These business activities, in addition to being illegal and unacceptable, create serious precarious situations. These illegal business practices, in addition to being a theft in workers' and workers' payrolls, also cause their subsequent poverty in rights, lower unemployment benefit and lower retirement benefit. And to change this reality of precarious work – it has ended – it is essential to have skills in the field of work, not only in the work of the inspector, but also in the field of collective bargaining. I suppose the People's Party will vote against this LNP, because it has already done so against the motion advocated by me in this plenary in mid-April, and that it was collecting the same existence of a claim of competence in the field of work. I will therefore vote in favour of this non-law proposal by the BNG, since I fully agree with the criticism it raises in its exhibition. It's an indecency you haven't counted on nationalist unions to deal with this negotiation. And, just like with LOMCE, this bill, computer of the Labour Inspectorate, returns to the principles that reside in the People's Party DNA: a state, Spain; a language, the Spanish; a religion, the Catholic; a capital, Madrid. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u171	Thank you very much. For the Parliamentary Group of the Alternative Galga de Left has the word dona Yolanda Díaz Pérez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u172	Good morning to all of you again. The truth is that we are in a permanent speech, from the Alternative Gaga de Left, which yesterday explained Mr. Beiras in this House, speaking in philosophical-legal-political terms. He was talking about a destitutional process, or what he called exactly a "constitutional process," in which many of the most relevant authors in this country and this state are insisting. We are committed to the Alternative Glaga de Left to indicate that there is a process of massive demolition, through the back door, of the constitutional text through different norms that are disfigured by the legal-normative narrative and hence the social protection and model of social state that we have so far set up. If I may, Mrs. Rodríguez, in fact, this rule is one more standard; it is a more standard that advances in that process of dismissal; a rule that, indeed, is sufficient in that proposal that brings the cause of Mr. Cristóbal Montoro's Cora Report, and in which his central mission is to convert us or return to a model of the centralist state, improbable from the 21st century and, of course, inappropriate from a country or nation like Galicia. But if you allow me, in fact, it's an aberrant standard in which I also regard this disconfiguration of the model of labor relations that we've set up. Indeed, there are more than relevant reports on what will incorporate this rule into the process of working relationships, but above all there is a unanimous cry from labour law specialists: that this rule is dictated by the hand of the European Competitiveness Council; the European Competitiveness Council to which only you are concerned, as I suppose you all know, especially when we hear Mrs Mato, or when we hear, unfortunately, the Minister of Employment, Mrs Báñez, because it is pursuing that small part of the society that, having access to a small employment contract, or sometimes gaining – as it can be and is real – EUR 100 or EUR 200 per month, or as 70,000 Welsh people who perceive gross EUR 410 per month – this is the reality of what they don't like to talk about – because they come to the incubated economy, and these are the objects of monitoring and massive persecution on the part of this rule, which, I insist, indeed, as the most relevant authors are told by the Economic Council. But, if I may be allowed, there is a central accent in this rule that jumps into the destruction of the dominant character of labour law and the destruction of an institution itself that is centenary, as is the Labour Inspectorate; an inspection, by the way, that, despite the many euves it has in relation to material and budgetary resources, as are they denouncing the associations of labour inspectors and inspectors, in spite of all this, is still standing, and there are professionals who want to do the task for what their objective is. The truth is, if I may, is that of course there was also a cry in the professions of labour law and in the community, because, indeed, there was a need to change the Law of Labour Inspection, of course, yes, especially after changing the Law of Offences and Penalties, Royal Decree 5/2000 of 4 August. But the truth and the truth is, we never thought that the attack – not just for recentralization, that would also be so brutal. It's been said that it's such a tremendous thing that the tripartite composition model is now incorporated into that institute, such as the Labour Inspection; that they incorporate as if it were something normal that employers have to be part of the Labour Inspection itself. That's as much as saying that the central agent that we're going to investigate is part of the institute that must ensure compliance with the atrocities they're committing. I mean, the world backwards, what businessmen and businessmen never thought. Right now they'll be in charge of ensuring that nothing is investigated, because, in fact...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u173	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u174	...those responsible for people who are in the diverged economy are those entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs who exploit viciously and take advantage of a crisis that is nothing more than a scam to have them become authentic slaves. If I may, this rule is quite serious. It must also be said – that, indeed, Mrs Martínez – that there are two trade unions, the ELA trade union and the IGC trade union – but also the Economic and Social Council itself – that, in their dictation – these last two – they issue a particular vote, but the Economic and Social Council itself makes relevant criticisms as to this rule. And it must be clear, in the short time that I have left, that, of course, what the People's Party wants is to convert this centenary institute into a real labor police force. Alternative Left-Galga doesn't want a centralized labour inspection and that it's a labor police officer, nor do we share that model of creating a state agency to centralize its entire management. It is unheard of, by the way, not even in any of the aspects of the norm to allow autonomy itself, Galicia itself, to be able, if desired, to engage in recruitments of selective processes of inspectors and labour inspectors. The truth is, it's aberrant about the process of decentralization and it's aberrant because the persecuted here are not going to be the bosses, but they're going to be the workers and the workers, who are still going hungry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u175	Thank you very much. The Socialist Group has the floor to Mrs. Quintas Álvarez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u176	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. The Socialist Group announces the vote in favour of this non-law proposal, and the Socialist Group on many occasions – in fact, since 2001 – has been proposing a reform of the Statute of Self-Government; a reform that would allow citizens' representatives to reach consensus agreements to decide what their governance should be like, and that it be comparable to other autonomous communities, such as Catalonia or the Basque Country. However, we are before a law in which the People's Party has renounced consensus; a law to which 70 amendments are tabled and the People's Party only accepts two technical amendments. For the Socialist Group it is important, in this case, to fight fraud, to propose that this body integrated into the inspection also be responsible for combating recruitment fraud and abuse of working conditions. It's about avoiding, therefore, that a law does not become a simple tool, but a useful tool to really combat a reality that is in front of all of us. The law should, of course, count on the greatest consensus possible, both of political groups and of social representatives. The transcendence of the labour inspection system is very important to ensure compliance with social order. The current law is a 1997 law; it was therefore important to reform, but it is also important that it be a useful law, with fundamental structural changes to make it useful in the fight against fraud. The Labour and Social Security Inspectorate must thoroughly pursue this fraud in labour exploitation, and I insist both on the usefulness of the law and the pursuit of fraud because fraud is fraud and, therefore, the data we have are the data that bloom, but it is the tip of an iceberg. Since 2012, more than 5,000 tax returns have been detected from fictitious companies and created to be able to cheat; that is, it's alarming, it's companies that are specifically created to be able to cheat. And, as I say, that tip comes out of the iceberg in public light. But even the administrations are providing such contracts for fraud, as is the case with health workers. The nurses report to the Labour and Social Security Inspectorate how the Sergas branch is hiring for hours and days. I mean, somehow, from the administrations themselves, it's generating that exploitation. From the Socialist Group we understand that regulations are instruments that have to be not only useful but effective but also to guarantee people's rights and dignity. Laws and those who apply them cannot facilitate by action or by default articulate a fraud but must be exhaustive in order to pursue that fraud and useful and effective – I repeat – to pursue it. We must therefore have effective mechanisms to combat practices that have only one name: apart from fraudulent people, they are absolutely corrupt practices. Galicia has an important problem of unemployment, emigration and depopulation. And, within this very important problem, we are allowing, or the laws, in some way, and applying them are allowing for fraud contracts, precarious recruitments, people who are hired on average a day...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u177	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u178	...and works a full day, young people who accept a job in conditions of absolute precariousness, and not only in small businesses, but also in multinationals, also in large businesses. It is terrible that in this crisis scenario, in this scenario where hundreds and thousands of young people leave Galicia and people over 55 years of age find themselves at a serious job risk, we are allowing – as I say – these fraudulent and corrupt practices. It is mandatory – and here we refer to the Law of Public Administrations – to have all the mechanisms necessary to combat these fraudulent practices.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u179	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u180	Finished, Madam President. More than 20,000 Greeks agree to be false autonomous. To this we are led by those reforms of the People's Party, to this we are given that word that describes as fantastic self-employment, which is nothing but acceptance of a job in precarious conditions. We're starting...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u181	Finish, Mrs. Thursdays, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u182	He used to talk about poverty. In Galicia there are workers in poverty. I mean, it's not just those people who don't have jobs anymore, it's people who are working but who are in poverty.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u183	Thank you very much, Mrs. Quintas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u184	In this sense, therefore, the Socialist Group calls on the fight against fraud by decency and survival. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u185	Thank you very much. The People's Group has the floor Mr. Tellado Filgueira.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u186	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, everyone. I have the feeling that since the Socialist Party they haven't read the draft law or the initiative of the Nationalist Block Galego, because nothing has been said about it to Mrs. Quintas and she goes to this rostrum to talk about everything and not talk about anything, as if this crisis had nothing to do with you. It surprises us, of course, to speak from the United Left, where the alleged centralization is criticized. It's surprising because, first of all, it's not true. This bill in nothing bets on centralization; therefore, it is not true. And it's surprising because really the centralizers have always been you, those from Left Unity. And so recently said a history of Greek nationalism like Francisco Rodríguez, who says you're a branch education. I propose the reading of the article "Suffistas, Chambonadas and Desertación", an article that, without a doubt, will certainly interest you and Mr. Beiras, where he accuses the AGE of being that Trojan horse that has allowed the introduction of United Left in Galicia; it's called "Suffistas, Chambonadas and desertion", read by Francisco Rodríguez. Of course, Mrs. Díaz, we didn't actually agree with her model. Its model is Venezuela, our model is Spain; a Spain that now grows 3%, that's reality; a Spain where today 590,000 members of Social Security more than a year ago; a Spain where 80,000 young people under 30 years of age are working and who a year ago were unemployed. So we're in that Spain where youth unemployment has dropped by almost 10% in the last year. You are in the other Spain, in that Spain of Venezuela, in that Spain where you were quiet while ruling the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u187	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u188	In relation to the Galician Nationalist Block, I have to tell you that this 19th-century colonialism speech is quite out of date. You actually say that the Galician Board-dependent Labour Inspectorate would be more efficient than the current one; and we have to tell you that at all we have to agree with that proposal. I have the feeling that you're more concerned about flags than about people, and in that wake of the Socialist Party they're going to vote for them. [[Murmurs.]] It presents the Nationalist Block Galego an initiative that this Parliament intends to request...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u189	Mr. Beiras, you have a second call to order.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u190	...the withdrawal of the Computer Law Project from the Labour and Social Security Inspectorate, which has begun – as you have already said – its processing at the Congress of Deputies. I am forwarding that our vote will be against because the preliminary draft in question was consensual with the autonomous communities, as much as it bothers Mr. Beiras. In fact, in the explanatory statement of this bill it was literally said: "In the preparatory work of this law the Government has counted on the participation of the autonomous communities, in particular on issues relating to the definition of the new shared inspection model that the law presents" – the new shared model. Besides, I must deny the biggest. It's not true that the bill makes it impossible for the possible transfers of the Labour Inspectorate that at the right time they want to make to other autonomous communities, apart from Catalonia and the Basque Country, which have already transferred them. Literally to additional third provision it says or follows: "The provisions of this law do not imply modification of the competition regime established in the autonomy statutes of the different autonomous communities, so the provisions of that law must be understood in each case in accordance with the provisions laid down therein." In this new computer law – which is in process at the Congress of Deputies and whose text was agreed, I say, with the autonomous communities – the Labour Inspectorate is configured as an autonomous body assigned to the ministry. In drafting the preliminary draft of the new law, therefore – as I say to you – it is not possible to transfer competences to Galicia when conditions require it. In addition, the new Labour Inspectorate will have greater participation by the autonomous communities and social agents – so it defines the third chapter of the law where it speaks of self-cooperation – and in fact, it reinforces the presence of autonomous communities in the governing body of the Labour Inspection. I won't read the article. In addition to modernizing the Labour Inspectorate, this bill also enhances its capacity for action. A more efficient inspection model is created, it is said to update the operating means, improve the skills of job inspectors and strengthen the technical independence of staff. It is also mentioned in the law of increasing the resources allocated by the Inspectorate for the prevention of work risks and to combat childishness, and it is also established the establishment of a national anti-fraud office, which is so worrying to the Socialist Party but when they ruled nothing of that they did.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u191	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u192	So, I tell you, our vote will be against. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u193	Thank you very much. Group author of the non-law proposal. You have the floor to Mrs. Prado Cores.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u194	Thank you, President. I didn't expect anything very different either. But it is tremendous that a representative, a member of the Galician Parliament, would say in this House that I am starting from the premise that a competition exercised by the German Government will be more efficient. He doesn't believe it at all. He considers that whatever Madrid does... the problem with things is that they are recorded, Mr. Tellado. You said you didn't have to be more efficient by the German Government. Well, what do you want me to say? It also made me calm: it turns out that this bill does not limit the powers that autonomous communities have; that is, does it not alter the statutes of autonomy? You leave me alone too. They're not ashamed! Look, what the Galician Nationalist Block calls for with this initiative is that we have a self-responsibility, that Galician government, the Galician government, the workers and workers in Galicia have tools to act on the country's most serious problem, which is the problem of unemployment and the poor quality of employment. And you, the People's Party, in front of that, what they say is, no, more Spain and less Galicia. That's the frame you want to go to. Because, look, Galicia needs to have control over job marking, and in that control the Labour Inspectorate is fundamental to the well-being of workers and workers, to protect the quality of employment, to fight against fraud, to fight inequality, discrimination, against sinlessness... and you don't want to assume competences, you don't want to move a single hand for Galicia and the German Government to have the ability to exercise Galician government. Well, it's in line with what they've been doing since all past legislation and this one. And since the President of the Government is here with us right now, because I regret that we are in the presence of a government that does not demand a single competition anymore and allows one day yes and another also the Spanish Government limits those that we already have and it is impossible for them to continue demanding more. Look, we – I insist – were defending Galicia's right to decide, defending that Galicia had more sovereignty over eating things, because having instruments to defend a work worthy of the Greek workers and workers is talking about eating things. The People's Party is totally against having a government in Galicia that has instruments to be able to act and defend a quality of life for the Greeks and the Greeks. They feel very comfortable because there is no guarantee that the German Government can be more efficient than the Government of Madrid.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u195	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u196	You have been portrayed, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party. I'm deeply sorry. And I appreciate the positive vote of the political groups, who have stated that they will do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u197	Thank you very much. Voting of non-legislative proposals
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u198	We move on to the vote on non-legislative proposals. We shut the doors. We began with the non-legislative proposal of the People's Parliamentary Group in Galicia, at the initiative of Mrs Prado, who said he did not accept the amendments tabled. We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. The people of Galicia, at the initiative of Da Paula Prado del Río and eight other Members, on the impulse of the Galician Union to extend the family mediation programmes. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 39; votes against, 31; abstentions, 1. The voting is positive. This proposal is therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u199	We are voting on the proposal from the People's Parliamentary Group in Galicia, at the initiative of Mr Santalices Vieira, which does not accept the amendments tabled. We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. Popular of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr Miguel Ángel Santalices Vieira and seven other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in connection with the Conecta 72 programme. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 38; votes against, 33. The voting is positive. This proposal is therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u200	We voted in favour of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, on the initiative of Mrs Acuña do Campo, who said that she accepted the amendments tabled. We vote. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da María Carmen Acuña do Campo and three other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in connection with the nursing profession. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. This proposal is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u201	We voted on the proposal by the Parliamentary Group of the Glaga Alternative of the Left, on the initiative of Mr Sánchez, to which no amendments have been tabled. We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. of the Alternative Galaga de Left, at the initiative of D. Antón Sánchez García, on the implementation by the Government of Galicia of a plan of employment in the field of research, training and transfer of rural knowledge and the measures to be taken. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. This proposal is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u202	We are voting on the proposal by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia on the initiative of Mr Val Alonso, who I believe accepts the amendment of the Joint Group. We vote. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of Mr José Ramón Val Alonso and two other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in matters of safety at sea. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. This proposal is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u203	We voted in favour of the Parliamentary Group of the Glaga Alternative of the Left, on the initiative of Mr Fajardo Recouso, who said that he accepted the amendment of the Joint Group. We vote. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. by the Alternative Galaga de Left, at the initiative of D. Juan Manuel Fajardo Recouso and D. Antón Sánchez García, on the demand by the Government of Greece to the central government of the post in operation of the Atlantic axis, on the stage A Coruña-Vigo, with the security system ERTMS committed. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. This proposal is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u204	Yes, Mr Arias' vote, 38. We voted in favour of the Parliamentary Group on the Galego Nationalist Block on the initiative of Mrs Pontón Mondelo, who accepts the amendment of the Socialist Group. We vote. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. by Da Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo and D. Cosme Eladio Pombo Rodríguez on the activities to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in connection with the annual evaluation of the practical results of the application of Decree 79/2010 of 20 May for multilingualism in non-university education in Galicia, provided for in its additional provision fifth. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. This proposal is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u205	And finally, we voted on the proposal by the Parliamentary Group on the Nationalist Bloc in Wales on the initiative of Mrs Prado Cores, to which no amendments have been tabled. We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da María Montserrat Prado Cores and D. Francisco Jesús Jorquera Caselas, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in connection with the Computer Law Project of the Labour and Social Security Inspection that is being processed at the Congress of Deputies. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. This proposal is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u206	After the vote, we continue with point 6 of the motion. Interpellation from G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the fulfilment of the protocols of gender-based violence
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u207	To formulate this interpellation has the floor to Mrs. Acuña do Campo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u208	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies. Mr. Rueda, at the last plenary session we asked you about the case of the murdered woman in Verín, a woman who was literally finished – and I'm going to use this term so cruel – by her sentimental companion while she was in a fully defenseless hospital bed, specifically in the Ourense Hospital Complex, recovering from a previous, almost deadly assault. And we asked you, Mr. Rueda, not to put you to death, but because it is our right and our duty as Members and Members of this House. By the way, just as it is your duty to answer us and clarify, as far as possible, the circumstances that caused this dramatic and worrying event and thus reassure a very alarmed Greek citizenry. And so, Mr. Rueda, it proved so unacceptable to us and throughout Galicia his attitude to our question. So today you have a second chance, because today we're going to ask you again about this case, and not because you're going to put your deaths on your head, Mr. Rueda, but because before that, most people have rejected each and every one of our requests for this House and all the agents involved in that matter have been explained in committee. And today we call upon you, Mr. Rueda, because I remind you that you are responsible for the application, and also for how it is applied, of legislation on gender-based violence in our autonomous community. And that's why, Mr. Rueda, you're not supposed to just answer us that this matter is under the cover of summary. We know that the summary corresponds to justice, but we also know that it is your political responsibility. I understand that so much closeness, so much sympathy between the People's Party and justice can confuse you, especially to you, who is responsible for your party in these matters. So much parade of the PP members by the judges and so much go the candidates of the People's Party to the judges to denounce all the mayors and socialist charges creates a certain familiarity that may disturb their vision. So I'm going to try to clear things up today. Look, Mr. Rueda, we're talking about macho violence, and you, as I said to you, are directly responsible for the implementation in Galicia of state law and autonomous law against gender violence. And that's exactly why you have to give explanations in this House, above all the people of Greece, of a fact as dramatic as that of Verín. And it can't and must not slip the bulk by hiding that the Union has no direct responsibility. Nor can you, Mr. Rueda, attempt to kill the messenger with phrases such as those used by you in that reply, which I will remind you of. You told us that as we dared to lay the deaths on his head when they died more in the bipartite. I don't know who pulls anything from who, but look, I'm not talking about numbers, but measures. I'm asking you about the measures you take in front of those numbers, and I remind you that the bipartisan put in place an autonomous law against gender-based violence, by the way, pioneering. I'm so sorry that you only see numbers and not people, not murdered women. You even accused me of raising my voice for lack of arguments. Look, Mr. Rueda, I'm willing to speak to you up to your ears, as long as that's useful for you to give us explanations, because we need to understand, we need to understand what happened, we need to understand that you proposed this abominable murder and, above all, we need to know what our government will do so that nothing so terrible will never happen again. You accuse me of having no arguments. Well, look, Mr. Rueda, I don't know if I have any arguments, but what I do know is that I have unfortunately and there are victims. Silent victims, victims who want to report and can't, victims who report and don't believe them, victims who report but don't protect them and victims who report, protect and kill them the same way. Arguments, Mr. Rueda, I don't know if I have, but clear facts of failure do exist, and you should see them. But besides, all this is happening in a context of macho governments, who with the excuse of the crisis cut – and how! – the budget to fight for equality, in which, by the way, they don't believe, although you will surely deny it, but the Budget Law is there and you can check. Reactionary governments that legislate against women's rights, against our most basic rights, how to decide about our body, and against the most vulnerable women, the younger ones. Conservative governments abolishing education for citizenship and recovering from education. We are supported by equal parliamentary groups of machos, reactionaries and conservatives who vote against proposals made by our group, proposals in which we demand that the budget for equality be recovered, proposals in which we request that each of these cases of women who have been murdered be studied in detail, even after they have denounced, and that all this information and these conclusions be brought here to this House. Mr. Rueda, this inquiry was registered in September 2014, about a case, yes, of a victim of violence in which all the protocols failed, which unfortunately had an opportunity to check directly and which I have reported on many occasions in this House. Well, gentlemen, almost a year later – in which, by the way, I still have to say, I still hope that the government delegate will recover the coverage – a year later, everything remains the same, as the case of Verín showed, all except the number, all less the names of women killed by machoism, which unfortunately are more, all less those minutes of silence that are dedicated to each victim, who are also more. More minutes, more numbers, but nothing else. That's why I ask you again today, Mr. Rueda, for all that is of your competence, for all that you can and should analyze the case of Verín, and not for what you pick up or stop collecting a summary. How do you appreciate the follow-up to the protocols of violence in the health issue? What failed for Isabel, who couldn't defend herself, had been finished by her partner in the hospital bed? Do you think that violence protocols can be applied correctly to fully collapsed emergency services? How do you appreciate the follow-up to the protocols of violence in the issue of justice? The truth is, seeing this case, I suppose it's wrong, with a secret summary or without it. But the bad thing is that we could put many more cases to him, Mr. Rueda, cases that know very well the associations of women who work with the victims, cases that know very well the leaders of the ICDs, as they showed in their appearance in this House, and cases that you too should know well. Do you think the different security bodies are following the protocols of violence in the same way and in the same way in the entire autonomous community? In the same town as in rural? A Monday morning like a Saturday night? The Autonomic Police like the Local or the Civil Guard? Do you count on sufficient and adequate resources at all times, anywhere, to address a victim of macho violence? Do you think that now, Mr. Rueda, the complaint guarantees the release and safety of the victim? Do specific cases of violence work as well as the so-called compatible ones? Does he receive exactly the same training in violence to the Civil Guard as the Local Police? Are there any evidence of dysfunctions in the application of protocols? Which ones and how have they been corrected? Do you think – I insist – that at this moment the complaint guarantees the release and, above all, the safety of the victim? And do you think, Mr. Rueda, that softening and nullifying the opposition if things get better? I'm waiting for your answers. For now, nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u209	Thank you, Mrs. Acuña. Response from the Vice-President and President's Adviser, Public Administrations and Justice.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u210	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mrs. Acuña, tell me, you said it from the beginning, probably because I was thinking of doing exactly the opposite: I'm not here to accuse you of anything. In two or three minutes he told me four times that he didn't put the dead on my head, he told me four times in two minutes. All right, if you don't want to, say so. He accused the parliamentary group, my parliamentary group – I suppose – of being a machist and reactionary. He accused the People's Party of sympathy with justice. All of this in three or four minutes. He told us that we have reduced budgets in the fight against gender-based violence, when it's exactly the opposite, exactly the opposite. And tell me that my duty is to clarify the circumstances, which happened in a case that – and you know exactly what that means – is under the cover of summary. Even so, tell me that I have to clarify the circumstances of everything that happened in a case that is under the cover of summary. Of course, what he didn't say – he said at the end, probably because he thought he was going to remember, and so I do – is that this interpellation – it's true – is from early September last year, registered by urgency. What's the matter? What about the emergency? What happens: that you only remember the violence of gender when there are victims, and when you don't think it's not urgent, and something that's urgent... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u211	Quiet, please. Quiet, quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u212	...after an appearance that I had...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u213	Quiet. Quiet, please! Quiet. [[Mrs. Martínez García speaks words that are not perceived.]] Silence!, Mrs. Martínez, please, silence. Quiet. Go on, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u214	I simply found, because it's true, it's so, that they urgently recorded an inquiry and didn't consider it urgent until there was another victim. If this isn't the case, you corrected it in the next intervention, but that's the case. They therefore consider it urgent to talk about this matter when victims are produced. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] We think it's urgent to talk about this subject all the time. There was a presence of this counselor to talk about gender-based violence, I came to the Special Commission and I'll do it every time I need to tell him everything we're doing and try to talk, if it's possible, in constructive terms, that I see it's impossible, I see it's impossible. [[Murmurs.]] Look, you ask yourself a few questions. I'm going to try to answer you because I really think it's urgent that you always talk about this subject and the questions you ask, if you were in that tone of trying to try out everyone, because this times we're talking about gender violence in this Parliament I'm at least always trying to move the same message: it's an unfinished task, unfortunately no government will end or you'll get – I wish it had been that way – out of the gender violence and, therefore, we'll all have to go, yes, constructively, without doing demagoxies and without making accusations like the ones you've just done here, which I think they're not taking anywhere and of course no use to fix the problem; if we did so and with this perspective, we'd probably all make progress in eradicating that crack. Ask me, as I said, a number of questions that I'm going to try to answer. Ask me, for example, if the phones work properly... – I'll try to answer everyone, eh! – if the attention phones work properly to the victims. Well, you know that there is an information phone to the woman –900400273 – which is free of charge, which is anonymous, that works 24 hours and is attended by multidisciplinary teams and coordinated with professionals from all over Galicia. You also know that in 2012 Junta signed with the Ministry of Health and Social Services and Equality an agreement so that calls to the national number 016 would be diverted to Galicia and could be attended by professionals in Galicia, who know better the resources we have to offer to women who denounce gender violence. In fact, last year 30% of calls to the woman's phone came from those calls from the state's 016. In total, the woman's phone – it's important to say it – received about 5,000 calls in 2014. I'm also wondering if there are enough resources to deal with cases that occur on weekends. I have to tell you that the weekends are also covered, and to suggest that they are not covered I think it's irresponsible because it could result in women going back thinking that there are days that will not be properly cared for. On weekends you can also report and can also be attended. It's important that women know and it's important that no public official tries to translucent or insinuate the opposite. It's the end of the week, it's 24 hours a day, 365 days a year, in fact the psychological assistance service is in operation, which is agreed with the Official College of Psychologists of Galicia; it's therefore guaranteed psychological assistance, the first assistance that women sometimes demand when they call on weekends as well. Also the Greek reception network, if it had been necessary to make drifts – which is sometimes necessary from the very first moment – is operational on weekends. There are 365 places available every year, 24 hours a day, in Vigo, in Coruña, in Culleredo, in Ferrol, in Lugo, in Ourense, to meet any woman at risk. Ask me also for the training of the personnel of the state's security forces and bodies in the field of fighting against gender-based violence, specific knowledge on this matter. Of course, those who are framed in units that fight specifically against this lacquer, of course they have specific formation, as could be no less. But also any agents of state forces and security bodies must have this formation. We've certainly looked for it and it's our first responsibility. With regard to the personnel of the Assistant Police Unit, they receive specific training when they arrive in Galicia, they have this training at the Galician Academy of Public Security and they are also offered, by the way, of course, to the local police forces and bodies, it is also our formal competence, and specific modules are also dedicated in their initial training as well as later in the recycling they do, and they are done in addition to newspapers – the last weekend, with more than 200 assistants – for these staff at the Galician Academy of Public Security. He also asks me to value the follow-up to the protocols that affect health personnel. Well, you know that there was a meeting last week of both the Secretary General of Equality and the Secretary General of the Health Council, and there you specified that he is vigilant and that the protocol of action, of course, which is approved by Minister López Aguilar, as far as health personnel are concerned, has been adopted by the bipartite, a technical guide to care for women in situations of gender violence for health workers, and also in Galicia you know that there are, in 2009, of course, a technical guide to care for women in health care. That's what's being applied and I think it's being applied properly. If the question is whether it is being properly applied by professionals, I understand that, except for some specific dysfunction that may exist, it is being applied and they are exercising it properly. If the question is whether there are dysfunctions to correct, of course it is. I think it would be irresponsible to say that everything works well. Of course, it doesn't all work well, if we didn't have this fence. There are women who continue to be killed and women who, without being killed, continue to suffer this scourge and sometimes still have to live with their batterer. That's why it's so important to realize that there's no problem in reporting and that's why it's so important not to do any demonstration or to have any action that can put a woman behind her. I think four years ago the victims had no guarantee of free legal assistance or the school dining room for their children; now they do. Four years ago the foreign women who lived in Galicia who didn't speak our languages had a serious problem to report and to make themselves understood when this fence was suffering; now they're not. Four years ago the deaf women were excluded from these resources; now they are not. Four years ago, the Criminal Code just passed did not envisage as a crime the harassment or harassment of these women or the dissemination of their intimate images; now, fortunately for all, yes. It was also not a crime to manipulate the control apparatus that is installed to the aggressors; now it is a crime. And since this year, the Criminal Code, as I say, collected all these conduct as a crime, and it was time. Four years ago they didn't have the autonomous communities coordinated their reception services; now they do; there may now be derivations, you can now make transfers of women to be nearer or further away according to the convenience of their aggressor or their place of residence. And this leads me to a very important consideration. I'll tell you again, Mrs. Acuña: let's be very careful not to make a point, because it's one of the questions you ask me in your inquiry, which is difficult to make complaints. The question is: Do the Government believe that anyone who detects a case of violence and wants to report it can do so? All of a sudden, yes. You think you can do it easily? All of a sudden, yes. Do you think you can get results immediately? Well, it'll be everyone's responsibility, and we'll do our best to make it so. Of course – I'm telling you – it's absolutely irresponsible to assume that there are difficulties in denouncing, to understand that it's not worth denouncing or even making it clear that, according to whoever's governing, these complaints are more or less effective or more or less welcoming. An absolute irresponsibility and certainly since the German Government, we are not willing to accept it or to tolerate it. That this is very clear to anyone, including you, if that's your insinuation, when they say that depending on who the women's government is more or less protected. That they know that the budget of the Galician Union for gender-based violence is higher now than in 2009, when the budget of the Union in general was much higher; it did not diminish, but quite the contrary. Women know, not you – because you know it but you won't recognize it – that no woman who needs regular help to get out of the situation of gender violence, that periodic help given in Galicia, now also in Extreme, but for a long time only in Galicia, started with the bipartite and we kept it – as could be less – in times of crisis, no woman who has the right to obtain it will be left without it. They've never received as many women's help as in recent years, with a top number, I hope they were many less, but it was produced in 2014, and therefore we're all following this old man, Mrs. Acuña. If we keep waiting for a death to make demagogy, to make entrepreneurship accusations and not to understand that this is a struggle of all, we will fail, and we will all fail. We'll do everything we can, despite you sometimes, to avoid it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u215	Thank you, Vice President. Group turn to set positions. Joint Parliamentary Group. Mrs. Churches.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u216	Thank you, President. Mr. Rueda, I had thought not to enter the dynamics of "you any more," but when you started your speech and referred to the victims of masquerade terrorism as "dead," you indicated to me the low sensitivity you have when it comes to "murderers"; they are neither dead nor killed; they are killed. So I don't believe much in your statements about what you're sensitized, worried about, with such a terrible subject as that of masculine violence. Regardless of age, schooling, social class, civil status, religion or race, women face various forms of violence because of our gender status, by the way, Mr. Rueda, nothing but being women. This violence acquires several expressions, such as psychological, physical, sexual, economic and heritage violence, which can culminate in the murder. Feminicide is the expression of extreme violence against girls and women and implies contempt and generosity towards us, making the murderers feel that they have the right to end women's lives by the supposed property they exercise over them. Whoever is suffering from macho violence lives in an experience of continuous terror, where humiliation, contempt, physical and emotional abuse, harassment, sexual violence, incest, abandonment. Feminicide is the result of the unfair situation between genres. The patriarchal power structures and the control men have over children and women allow them to have their lives and bodies available, deciding the moment of their death. The reasons used to justify the murder, the violent acts exercised in the victim's body, the relation of kinship between the victim and the victim, the structural changes in society, the lack of research and the demand for justice on the part of the apparatus for the provision of justice necessarily imply the responsibility and/or involvement of the State. By the number of women killed, by the number of children and orphans, by the trauma they cause, and by the impact of the negative influences they represent, they should be the reported feminicides of national catastrophe and alerting 24 hours a day. And the figure of feminicide should be incorporated into the Criminal Code, because it's a silent genocide that victimizes more than half of humanity. We're all in danger of being women. The murder of women, by being the product of violence against them in the public domain and also private as a manifestation of the power and control that men exercise over our freedom, about our privacy, about our body, thought and life, is culturally evaluated, explicitly consented there is a time for right and currently underestimated and justified in judicial decisions. It's the greatest expression of violence, of discrimination against women. You shouldn't call murder what a feminicide is and which refers to a reality that exists, a differentiating and concrete reality. And the fact that you don't give him a name, the fact that you don't face him, the fact that you don't face him, the way he is, it contributes to invisibility and perpetrating impunity. It's an expression necessary to name a phenomenon that historically ended and ends with the lives of thousands of women who have lost and lost their lives at the hands of couples, former couples, relatives, bullies, sexual aggressors and rapists; deaths that manifest inequality as a product of patriarchal culture. The first mistake – as I consider it – with which we find ourselves for the resolution of this scourge is that we do not recognize that violence against women constitutes a violation of human rights and therefore requires all the actions necessary to prevent it, investigate it and sanction it. In fact, it is very common for survivors of feminicide to confront authorities who do not believe in their allegations, who ignore the seriousness of threats, who justify them and naturalize them, attributeing responsibility for violent acts to victims. It's painful and irresponsible for them to lower their sentences. Mindful of those who are seriously affected by the right to truth, to justice, to reparation or who are treated as personal injuries many cases that actually correspond to the attempt to feminicide. It is also common – and here I contradict your speech, if I may – for victims of male terrorism to encounter the reproduction of prejudices, patriarchal stereotypes when they come to a police station to report or a health centre to treat injuries. Today, many public workers still consider jealousy to be mitigating, and even today it continues to speak and contain aggression as a crime of passion. The State's inoperativeness and ineffectiveness, the degree of impunity against feminicide, with irrational judgments or rejection of complaints, convey to society the message of tolerance with violence, with male terrorism. When justice is tolerant, omisive or complicit, it moves that one can have the life of women without consequences to fear. I agree with you that all of us must work together, join our efforts, never do any more partisanism. Very soon, Counselor, a photo on the stairway of the institution, of little value. Let's sit down and talk, let's name the feminicide farm, the machist terrorism. We have already committed ourselves to zero tolerance, to promote the complaint and also to make a statement to the State. Move, move, move, it's urgent, half of humanity is in danger. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u217	Thank you very much, Mrs. Churches. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. Mrs. Adam Villamarín.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u218	Thank you, President. Good morning to all and to all. Good morning, Vice President. Look, Mr. Rueda, I'm going to be honest: I don't understand your level of anger and crism every time you answer about gender violence issues, I can't understand it, I didn't understand it in the previous plenary, I didn't understand it again today in your intervention, which is out of every place that you, as responsible, may not have another topic as important as that of machist violence in your department, you get here and the only thing that makes you angry and say absolutely inappropriate things – and let me tell you this – about the position that you occupy when you are asked or questioned about this matter. Listen, check the videos, check your answers, and then, when you take another tone on this subject, we can probably sit down without anger and with no clichés, really. I in the previous plenary couldn't understand his answer, nor can I understand today. Because what we're talking about here today is the following: what is one of the fundamental issues that needs to be resolved by the German Government and possibly by the whole of Galician society? The macho violence. Two are clearly the areas. The People's Valedor referred yesterday and we know the recent report on the perception of gender-based violence in adolescence and youth. That young people come to understand that love is related to jealousy and that it is almost impunity for control over girls. It's really a subject for debate. Another issue, most important: is there real protection for victims of male violence? And you should answer with some sincerity, Mr Vice-President, because there are two laws that you and the Government of Greece must apply, two laws that are clear in the fields of protection, in the field of health, in the field of justice, in the field of forces and bodies of security, and today, in the question of compliance with the protocols, you say, "Cheaply, yes." At least yes, but something's failing, but something's failing. What's wrong, Mr. Vice President? That's the question we're asking him. Look, I was bringing a brief summary of the different appearances in the Special Commission that we have to study about equality policies regarding compliance with these laws and I highlighted several things both of the attendance of the directors of the information centres as well as of the College of Workers and Social Workers and of the College of Psychology. As for the courts, it's free. Not only do mechanisms fail, there is a reversal in the perception of the problem, women have the perception that there is no close protection, women's judges are revitalized, legal operators are the least trained in gender violence of all operators who are related to violence, depends on the goodwill of professionals in all areas of good attention or the greatest problem that exists in gender violence right now when a woman enters the system is secondary victimization. These are literary phrases copied from those appearances. And those phrases don't make you think? The women heads of the information centres, who have been years, years of experience in the face of this competition, what they tell us is: we are again faced with a secondary victimization of women, they will report and legal operators have no training, they do not believe them, they make them doubt, a woman who is already in a psychological situation that doubts herself, who is not strengthened enough to take that step, and you here: there is no doubt of the complaint; yes, I think, that there is a doubt about the complaint. That does not mean doubting the law and what the complaints mean, but the complaint does indeed complement the true protection of the victim, because, Mr. Rueda, it does not, unfortunately does not. And that should be at least the first starting point, that is, that a woman is desisted, before, while and after presenting the complaint, and that is indeed the responsibility of all those who have to take forward the laws, but that responsibility is shared. Aren't you really worried to hear that juridical operators are the most reluctant to be trained in gender-based violence? You, who has the competences of justice and gender violence, don't think how you might not want training in this matter or think you're omniscient, who know everything and don't understand that a victim may file a complaint but the next day he wants to withdraw it and that he wants to come back with the aggressor? that that's what's normal and what constitutes gender violence himself, that a woman for years, after being eliminated from her own will, has almost nothing clear, just that she's afraid and afraid. Well, because that training is absolutely necessary. The same training that needs the health care and the same care that the security forces and bodies need, that, well, I think we've made a lot of progress. Twenty years ago, we were talking about even having some jokes with a woman who was reporting. We believe that yes, that there is a formation and that the jokes do them anyway, well, just like not in front of her – because it's a little softer like that –. But that doesn't mean that the laws, being there, are not being applied, that there is a lack of commitment to that application and that at least you will come here and say: well, because we're going to see how we can improve them, we're going to see where the protocols are going to fail, as it is possible – and so we told the Secretary-General of Equality – that a director of an information centre had said – and it's public, because they could hear it from the honourable Members there – that we could repeat this case of Ourense; it could be repeated because, in fact, it's very difficult for the protocols to work perfectly. Well, you sit down, feel your team and see where they fail, as we can prevent that, how we can guarantee the real protection already to women who report, I don't tell those who haven't yet taken the step of the complaint. And look, Mr. Vice President, you get here and go back to the common places. Don't say it again about the salary of freedom, because it's not true that they cover it every month, because the directors of the CIS still said it, yet the workers and social workers said it, and I sometimes have the feeling that I see ghosts, because you come to say yes and the people who are in contact with the violence of gender to say no. Just accept that a few months ago you can't handle it. If you want that not to happen, we really sit down and see the mechanism to improve it, but that's what's happening, yes, because they're saying it. The same as the Aluga plan. Is the Aluga plan working, yes or no, for women who suffer from gender-based violence? The Members of the Commission hear that it is not working. Take note, find out if it's working or not working. As the College of Psychology says: What ten sessions are few?; well, if you need fifteen, twenty, because you assume you can get better. I mean, this has to be a starting point for something today, not to be constantly coming here all upset, everything, as if we didn't have the right as Members to ask you about how you can improve all prevention and protection of victims of gender-based violence. Because it's your obligation, because you're responsible for these matters, and you don't come to tell us: well, I took note of some of the things they said; the truth is, no, I don't think we can say cheerfully that if the complaint guarantees or doesn't guarantee security, because the truth is that we have a problem, we have some laws, well, I think we should review some of their points, but it's not this subject, but that if they've met, if they've complied with that and as they've been drafted in their literality, they'd probably have avoided the deaths that call us today in this interpellation. So I sincerely believe that it should be a little bit more modest – and let him give this advice – when he talks about gender-based violence and sits here to see what aspects of victim protection can actually be improved. And there's a question that is fundamental – I think –...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u219	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u220	...and that we have to give the debate. I think it's necessary to turn off protection for women who suffer from violence and gender in the judicial field. It is important to denounce, but all protection must also be guaranteed before the complaint, because, if not, that secondary victimization is taking place in all women, and all professionals put it on the table, and the worst thing that can happen to a woman is that she is a victim twice, and that the second time, above, she is a victim of the Administration, which is the one who has the obligation to accompany her and protect her. Check the victim's attention offices. See if these people are really prepared in gender-based violence in these offices, sit down with the legal operators, talk to them. I know I'm very, very reluctant, very reluctant to understand that problem. I know that the myth of false denunciation has spread, but look, only false allegations are 0.018%...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u221	Thank you very much, Mrs. Adam.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u222	...a lot less than any other crime. Women never report in vain, but really or you sit down and assume this as a real problem...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u223	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u224	...and stop coming here all angry...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u225	Thank you very much, Mrs. Adam.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u226	...or we'll hardly get a starting point. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u227	Parliamentary Group of the Left Galician Alternative. You have the floor to Mrs. Yolanda Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u228	Good afternoon, Mr. Rueda. Mr. Rueda, if I may, if you would examine your appearance after discussing a serious problem, you would probably agree with me that your answer was to play a masquerade role, your answer was to play a masquerading role. If you were an adviser concerned about this matter, I wouldn't have expected an opposition group, indeed, to urgently process an interpellation. You yourself, if you had taken the death of a woman seriously – by the way, six in Galicia last year, in 2014, and with a remarkable increase, and this year we are in the fourth position of the state of deaths by macho men – because you are supposed to have come to explain to us with absolute rigour what you have failed and you would not have expected the companion to receive, indeed, to ask you to explain to us what happened to a woman from Ourense. What happened to a woman from Ourense is an absolutely shocking fact, Mr. Rueda. What happened to a woman from Ourense, if I may, would give to a tale of terror, like those who beautifully wrote Allan Poe, of terror. It would be recreated like that object of which the public administration has failed, like that object in which it seems normal or we have naturalized that women receive poles or that women die at the hands of men who are machos and that only reproduce the cosification process in which they have shared us. And the truth is, Mr. Rueda, I'll ask you a question. You say here that you don't like that we call them Machists and that you don't like that the People's Party is responsible for these reactionary conducts and those conducts that abound in an ever more regressive patriarchal system – and we don't say so, the experts and the experts – and a patriarchal system that is increasingly unjust. But look, Mr. Rueda, if we make a fundamental reading of the laws that you say – you and the People's Party – that you say in Galicia and that you say in the state, when you are permanently cutting into public services, in services of equality, in services of welfare, are attacking women. When you, Mr. Rueda, when you are giving, giving up, prioritizing, as Mr. Vázquez did, the former adviser of Culture and University, the centers with public resources that segregate by sex, you are sinking into a deeply unjust patriarchal system, Mr. Rueda. When you attack and cut public health, without more than 2,000 optional and health personnel, you are attacking women, Mr. Rueda, because you will understand – and I will talk about justice – that you can't do any more, with less you can't do any more, and there are already many studies that actually place deep victims of this crisis – which is a scam – that we are women. If the cuts go to someone directed, they're exactly over half the population, which is all of us. The cuts kill, and they kill women especially. So what would you have done? To explain here why last year, according to the memory of his counsellor, he has told us that we have 11.3% of deaths in macho hands in the middle of the Spanish state, in fifth place, and why we are now in fourth place in the state, Mr. Rueda. Because we're doing something wrong, and I don't want to blame you, and much less in personal terms. I don't come here to exercise morale, I come to evaluate the policies that the People's Party practices in terms of rules and policies that you manage as advisor, and those policies actually sink into an unequal and macho system, Mr. Rueda. I'm sorry to tell you, but that's the way it is. Look, Mr Rueda, in this House, a Member has been allowed to call himself a member of the ugly People's Party and nothing has happened here. That's true... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u229	Quiet, please. Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u230	...that's true. They can be like hydras, they can be like hydras, they can be quiet, they'll steal, then we'll ride. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u231	Quiet, please! Quiet, quiet!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u232	Here in this House was called an ugly lady...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u233	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u234	...and nothing happened. Therefore, and nothing happened to either of you or to any of you; the reaction was to shut up, the reaction was to shut up. Then, when in this House, which is the sacred, sacred House of the people of Greece, when a member of the People's Party is allowed to actually turn to a process of reproduction of massive roles, cosification of women, women, here nothing happens, imagine what happens when you actually rule and act through public budgets. But look, Mr. Rueda, it's not about laws. I, frankly – I come from the right – believe we have enough laws, it's not about laws, it's about fulfilling the laws we have, and I dare say that today it's not that the protocols are broken, that the laws we have are not complied with by the Government of the People's Party. For example, I'm going to talk to you about those reports that come from the evaluation of your advice, but I'm going to talk to you about, for example, what reflects the last memory of the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia, in which you speak clearly, and I think that you here should really explain these, but not to suppress it, no, no, to improve, because we know – and you know better than I do – that there are substantial there beings that have to do with material resources. Do you know how a judge works that makes criminal education compatible with gender-based violence? I know you do. It's impossible, Mr. Rueda, it's impossible, it's impossible. People, when they get there, are amazed, indeed; unbearable; I don't know how people are so patient. But, look, these rules of what we are talking about, about the minimum preservation not to suffer a process of secondary victimization – I am talking about the judicial field – are not met, Mr. Rueda; it is not complied with because our courts are not suitable for this, Mr. Rueda, for lack of means. But look, what gives us, for example, the memory of the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia? Relevant questions. For example, reports issued by CIS are not incorporated into the action protocols. I suppose we'll agree with you and me, the High Court. Can we improve on that? I think it's important. Why? Because women who follow, both lawyers and psychologists and sociologists – that there are some in some CIS – who are working casuistically with these women, know the vital journey of them, and they are pointing at us experts who are of course relevant to us incorporating those reports, actually, into the processes. But, for example, they're telling us not to incorporate psychiatric reports, health reports, to make the journey, Mr. Rueda. They're also telling us that on the part of the Imegas there are no eye inspections in most cases, except for absolutely overwhelming assaults. This speaks of the memory of the High Court of Justice. They're telling us that there's not, in most cases, really, neighborhood research. They're telling us there's substantial evidence in the Imegas about the full recovery of the victims. They are telling us – and there the data are powerful – also at the General Council of the Judiciary, Mr Rueda – that, indeed, there is an increase in the number of breaches of precautionary measures. Is that your responsibility? No, it's not. It's your responsibility to improve what we have. I know that if a man wants to kill a woman, he'll kill her, I make it clear, no one can stop anyone from killing anyone, Mr. Rueda. If I know.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u235	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u236	So I'm not going to chill with this, but actually we have a lot to do. And you, with your cuts, are you making the situation worse? No doubt about it. But we also have one element that marks the memory of the High Court, and that is a tendency to repeat the conducts, Mr Rueda. We're doing something wrong. Mr. Rueda, do you think that when the Secretary General of Equality gives a prize to a company – which I don't know as it is called – of "princeses" helps to have equality between men and women, Mr. Rueda? Please! When the city of Coruña gives a prize entitled "Wuapa," eh!, with w, that helps women, my daughter Carmela, improve equality in social roles? I'm telling you not, Mr. Rueda. When the Spanish Radiotelevision today says, without cutting and without resigning, that it's good that Pedro Zerolo opens the TV set because he's gay, Mr. Rueda, are you helping -- the People's Party -- gender equality? No, Mr. Rueda.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u237	Thank you very much. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u238	So, without making him responsible for the deaths of women, what we ask of him...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u239	Thank you very much, Mrs. Díaz. Your time is up, Mrs. Díaz. Mrs. Díaz... [[Mrs. Díaz Pérez speaks words that are not perceived.]] [[Applause]] People's Group. You have the word of Mrs. Paula Prado del Río.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u240	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen. Well, first of all, on behalf of the People's Parliamentary Group, I want to condemn all the acts of violence that women suffer for the only fact of being women, and not to point out any of them because they are more recent or because they are more frightening, because for us all, absolutely all of them, they are doomed and they are all subject to study and they are all subject to analysis. When we talk... "Like you'd rather I had another tone, but you won't get it, Mrs. Acuña, you won't get it." When we talk about gender-based violence, we don't talk about a new social lacquer, a social lacra proper to the context of the 21st century, or a lacra with greater or lesser intensity with left-wing governments or right-wing governments. Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, it is a bad silence in private and silenced by the public since we live in society. This parliamentary group will not allow us to be machos and reactionaries, either to this group or to the Government that supports this group. That's why I hope, Mr. Acuña, that in his next intervention, uh! do yourself, remove that very serious accusation you just made about this group; otherwise, we'll be forced to ask for it differently. [[Applause]] Look, there have been many battles given in order to end with the relationships of inequality between men and women and there have been many steps that have been taken to conquer more equality, and there is still much to be done, and it seems that, in view of the data that there is violence between our youth, for it is taking some false step, but do not be deceived, Your Honor, we are all taking a false step, because only with the unit of action of all and we will all be able to win the battle against inequality and violence against women. Any proposal in this area must always be made in an absolutely constructive way. That's how the People's Party always understood it, supporting the measures they went forward in the search for the eradication of violence, even if they were from a socialist government, and so you understood it a few years ago. It's a shame they've now changed how to address this issue, because, ladies and gentlemen, gender violence cannot be used as a political daring weapon. There you are with your conscience, if you still have it. [[Murmurs.]] We're not going to divert one millimeter from action against macho violence, and I think, despite his speech, we're going to join in a lot more than they separate us. Our commitment is clear, and the government team that supports this group is showing up in the facts, in the budget figures. It is undeniable, Mr. Vice-President, that your department's budget increase for gender-based violence programmes, for women's information centres, for periodic assistance to victims. Because, ladies and gentlemen, budget is policy in figures. And what is your policy? Well, we've seen it with the amendments they presented to these 2015 budgets, which we're developing now. I'm surprised at the speech, the words that you just said here to Mrs. Adán, aren't they? because they tabled an amendment, specifically to 34, which was intended to abolish cooperation with the funding of the Summer School of the Prosecutor's Office, the cooperation agreements with the General Council of the Judiciary, for the formation of judges, prosecutors and judicial secretaries; that training you are now demanding, that you intend to withdraw the amended way of budgets. And you supported it, you voted in favour of that amendment. Also the game that covers the displacements of forensic doctors, prosecutors, judges and the entire staff of justice. For example, Mrs. Adam, what would it look like to you that a prosecutor, because he had no money to move, couldn't go to the sight of a victim of gender violence? Or could a forensic doctor not move to assess the damage suffered by a victim? Bad, right? But you, in your budget program, suppressed those games. So we're going to follow the route that has been set in budgets, and the route of budgets that the vice president has just told you, because you say one thing but they do absolutely the opposite. The Socialist Party also, with its amendments, since it looks, intended to abolish a departure intended for the Galego Observatory of Violence, which exists a non-Sexist Advisory Committee on Advertising, or another amendment which seeks to reduce the departure intended for the work programme for women victims of gender violence. Because look, in the People's Party, we consider incorporation into the labour market to be one of the main strategies for victims of violence to gain self-esteem and access to personal autonomy and economic independence. You have also tabled an amendment to abolish a game for information and awareness campaigns whose objective was to change sexist stereotypes, those that force the Greek law you passed. What's the point of adopting a law without endowment, without development? And besides, now – which is even more serious – that amend the initiatives that are intended to comply with that law. Mrs. Acuña, don't presume here to pass laws, assumes dowry and assumes power to develop them, and when the government group is developing them, at least support those measures and don't put a stop to the car in order to seek equality. [[Murmurs.]] Well, I know you're more interested in talking about Vigo, but the question is. Look, you can't do demagoxy either by saying that education for citizenship has been abolished. Look, the boys who are between 11 and 19 years of age today, all those boys that we're seeing today are increasing the rates of violence in youth, they've all received education for citizenship. It's a very serious mistake, Mrs. Acuña, to rely on education, only education, sensitization, a single subject. Because look, education is at home, education is at school, education is also in the media, especially in magazines for teenagers, video games; education is in a lot of things, not in a single subject. And we're seeing that in those boys educated with the citizenship education course, the rates of violence among youth are also increasing. I therefore believe that this is a very serious, very serious mistake, and this honourable Member is not going to enter that barricade where you want to put us. I don't know how many times you've dealt with a victim of gender violence; of your interventions I deduce that none. And look, the one who speaks to them, the one who speaks to them, yes, I don't know if you, the one who speaks to them, yes, because, as you well said, Mrs. Acuña, the CIM staff know very well the cases. [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] And that's why I feel with the authority to say that they're very far from reality, that their political speeches do not help to solve the problem at all, but worsen it. The public impact they have on the words they see in this gallery should make them reflect on the responsibility they have and the damage they can do. There you with your irresponsibility, I'm not going to fall into that firewall. Because look, Mrs. Adam said two very serious things. One, that how is it possible for the head of a CIM to say that what happened in Ourense can happen again? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And after saying that and giving it a importance to that manifestation – that I too can grant it, because we are talking about a woman who did not report, a woman who had no background as a victim of gender-based violence – that did not apply the protocol, [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u241	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u242	...because, as you well know, they were talking about a crime, a robbery with violence. Therefore, a different protocol cannot be activated for the crime that was being done and yet doubt the professionalism of the staff of the victim's care offices. It's amazing. But it is only that, in addition, Mrs. Adam, if a victim hears what you said today in this gallery: "the complaint complements the true protection of the victim; she is helpless before, during and after the complaint," what do you think will make a victim today listening to Mrs. Adam here saying that she is a non-assisted? If you have any doubts about filing a complaint, after you have heard it, you will not, Mrs. Adam. I ask them for seriousness and responsibility on this subject. You're irresponsible, you don't know what you're talking about. They never spoke to a victim, not once. [[Murmurs.]] And we're not going to allow this degree of irresponsibility of the opposition. [[Interruptions.]] [[Applause]] And look, too, Mrs. Díaz, Mrs. Díaz, Mrs. Díaz, tell you that you can't do more with less. [[Mrs. Díaz Pérez speaks words that are not perceived.]] Well, look, yes, you can do more with less, because, look, this government has...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u243	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u244	...a single high office where the previous government had two, with two official cars and two cabinets. And this government, this vice president does not devote himself to spending the money of Equality in dances, eh!, at the Silleda fair, as the former Vice President of the Galician Union did. [[Murmurs.]] That's why this government can do more with less, Mrs. Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u245	Mr. Fajardo!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u246	And look, you said here that the vice president is coming to speak because Mrs. Acuña is bringing him in. What do you mean, Mrs. Díaz, that since you did not present any initiative to you, the subject doesn't matter? No, I believe not, that you care, just as we care about us and the whole House, but to make the demonstrations that we have heard today and these days ago by Members of this House, honestly, ladies and gentlemen, it seems to me that I am so irresponsible, so great – knowing the repercussions that our words have – that I really ask them and I appeal to them for the responsibility of all the Members of this House. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u247	Replica roll. Mrs Acuña do Campo, Socialist Parliamentary Group. [[Mr. Losada Álvarez pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Mr. Losada, if you want to talk, ask the group, but you'll talk to Mrs. Acuña. Do the favor. Ma'am, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u248	Thank you, President. Look, Mrs. Prado, I'm not going to ask you permission to talk about what I want to talk about, because we're in democracy. But the important thing is not what I said or stopped saying in my ten minutes of intervention, the important thing is what Mr. Rueda stopped saying in his intervention. He used his minutes to attack, to attack, Mr. Rueda, yes, yes, and he came to say how we only care about gender violence when there is a victim. Tell the Socialist Group that I want to remind you that the first law that Mr. Zapatero passed was the Law against gender violence. Look, I won't beg you, Mr. Rueda, as a submissive woman, I won't beg you to work for you, yes, to work for you to combat the violence of gender. [[Applause]] I will demand that you work to combat gender-based violence. You told us here about the victims' phone, very well. Have you ever called that phone to check how it works? Because I did and I didn't like it. Do you think anyone, victim or witness, who detects a case of violence and wants to report it can easily do so and opt for results immediately? Because I did it, Mr. Rueda, and I assure you not. Do you think a victim can feel himself, can you be safe after he's made the complaint and even after he's got a protection order? Of course not, Mr. Rueda, because they kill them. And it's not irresponsibility to report it, which is irresponsibility not to fight it. Look, do you think cases like Verín can discourage victims, women, reporting? Do you think so? [[Murmurs.]] I don't know. Mr. Rueda, do you think that, after you heard it, the people out there calmed down? Because she's alarmed. And most important: do you think that, after listening to you, the victims will dare to report, because they will feel safe, because they will feel supported, because they will feel supported? And, above all, do you think, Mr. Rueda, that they are? Look, after the case of Verín, is Machism ever going to kill a woman who is a victim of violence in a sanitary space? Because that's what we want to ask you, that's what we want to know. What steps have you taken or will you take to improve the protection of victims after that unfortunate event? Because, as far as I know, I haven't seen him form a crisis office in the face of the gravity of these facts to analyze what happened, I haven't seen him form that crisis office, Mr. Rueda. I saw me attack, and attack me, besides – I have to say – like a macho, conservative and reactionary lord. So it's the Government and the group, and so is you, Mr. Rueda. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] But tell me, with the cabinet – yes – tell me, with the crisis cabinet or without it: what will you do, what will you do and how and when will you do it? Look, Mr. Rueda, I understand that you are very upset with the latest election results, but the more upset Isabel's family is. And I say so, bravely, because it must be said, not for "your more," but to try to solve it, Mr. Rueda...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u249	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u250	...because silence is not solved, it is not visible. More upset than you with the election result are women, there is feminism; by the way, who is in struggle, he is in a fight against machismo, with a very interesting motto: "Not one less," Mr. Rueda, with another very nice motto: "that doesn't give us life." And we socialists and socialists will be with them, with the victims, with feminism. But here's what matters is where you are, where the Government of the Union is, and where the People's Party is. I hope, Mr. Rueda, I hope and wish you to leave here today, to rectify and undertake to review immediately...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u251	Thank you very much, Mrs. Acuña.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u252	...the protocols...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u253	Thank you very much. [[Madam Acuña do Campo speaks words that are not perceived.]] Thank you very much, Mrs. Acuña. [[Madam Acuña do Campo speaks words that are not perceived.]] No, it's over. [[Madam Acuña do Campo speaks words that are not perceived.]] Mrs. Hold on. [[Applause]] Yes, Mrs. Acuña, I said I wouldn't tolerate direct accusations against anyone. You can talk about the vice president's policies and you can talk -- no, he won't have the micro -- about his policies, but we're left with no direct charges going to be made, and so I ask him to withdraw them. [[Madam Acuña do Campo speaks words that are not perceived.]] [[Madam Acuña do Campo speaks words that are not perceived.]] Well, then you have a call to order and I withdraw the charge of macho and reactionary. Thank you very much. [[Murmurs.]] The vice president and councillor, the public administrations and the judiciary have the floor. And I ask for silence. [[Interruptions.]] I ask for silence. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Excuse me a moment, Vice President. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u254	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I really regret that, indeed, if you are confused about being energetic in defense, not anymore of me, but of my colleagues and many people to whom we represent, when I come here, of course, answer – as my obligation – anything you want to ask me, even though, as I said, they ask about this subject very often. But when we have to listen – not me, my comrades, Paula Prado, whatever goes out here – many things we have to hear, and when in this appearance I'm called conservative and machist, but I don't have to bother, if I call this group machist and reactionary, when Mrs. Paula Prado is condemning the last machist murder and Mrs. Acuña is saying, "How nice!", laughing, and I suppose that of Mrs. Paula Prado's condemnation or whatever, I have to say that we can't tolerate it, and if you think I'm angry about it, I'm not angry, I'm sad at the spectacle we're giving and about everything you're giving, so yes, that's why. [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]] [[Applause]] I appreciate the constructive tone to which some of the constructive interventions were made, which they also had. Mrs. Adam, you said things, we can share more or less measures, if they were taken when they were to be taken, also for you or not, if we're doing what needs to be done with enough energy. I understand that yes, you and us; another thing is that we have the desired results – that they will never seal – or that they are so fast. What you won't avoid is that – I know, that we all agree, at least at that – unfortunately will result in more deaths, as Mrs. Díaz said. I wish this had been the last, death in Ourense, I wish there would be no more. Unfortunately, there will be them, but if we agree that things will be done little by little, in which we all intend to succeed. I didn't say it was all right, I said that I thought protocol professionals were doing them well. Did things go wrong? I've said it, too, and it'll be in the record of my intervention, of course. And you will have to be in constant review, but without disrespecting anyone, without insulting people by system – I deny, of course, Mrs. Díaz, the insult you were referring to – and, of course, without insults. What we've heard from these benches so many times, just understanding that sometimes there's no better contempt than not to appreciate, in front of the things we hear and that you're put like this by something that I deny, it wasn't, and that they're using in a torturing way, I think we're going to agree on the fundamentals. [[Murmurs.]] And I think there are fundamental things we will have to agree on, and of course we have to keep moving forward in action. And they made themselves, and to me, if there are reluctance – which I know there are, indeed, seems to me to say to Mrs. Adam or Mrs. Díaz, or both, I don't know anymore – in the professionals in the field of justice. First, we were accused of comparating with them and then they told us that the problem is that they have insufficient interest in training. There will be some who do and others who do not, indeed; we must not, and therefore will have to continue to persevere and will have to continue to speak with those governing organs of justice so that they can influence the fundamental importance and also the security forces and bodies of the state. And we will also have to move forward in the organization of justice, of course. You know that a law of the former Minister of Justice and until recently a Member of this House did not understand it, he did not agree. And now, at last, let's hope that with the legal changes that will be made if you correct already, that there may be trials of comarcal gender violence that care more than one judicial party, that you don't have to concentrate everything in a place and then make compatible trials, that actually do not give a lot of time. All these things will have to be corrected with consensus. The Members and Members sitting on the Socialist side today disagreed. The compatible judges have come to disagree that they have dealt with gender-based violence in more than one judicial party. I say, why not, if this eventually improves the attention of the victims? And by the way, very important, she said to Mrs. Acuña that it doesn't matter what she says. Of course, it is important, as I say, that we are all Members and Members in this House. I have responsibilities of government and she responsibilities of opposition. But if you keep saying, as she said with great intensity – and you think that too...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u255	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u256	...and I think it's something we should avoid – that there's still a lot of trouble to report, that it's so often as to say that it's not worth reporting, that's behind many women and can make them think it's not worth anything. That's a real irresponsibility. If you want to take advantage of this last case, under a secret summary, as you know, to try party politics, there you are. I think some of them have done it shamelessly, others fortunately have been more constructive. Anyway, thank you for calling me as many times as you need to talk about that subject. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Agenda Change
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u257	Before suspending the session, please inform your honourable Members that Mr Martínez Sierra's registration number 31920 will be put into effect at the end of the proceedings, and, with the agreement of the authors of the questions and the Education Adviser, who will answer both, the order will be changed between questions 8.3 and 8.4, which do not affect the rest of the Members but which I comment on. We suspended the session until four and a.m., 16.15. Thank you very much. [[The session is suspended at two and thirty-three minutes in the afternoon and resumed at four and fifteen minutes.]] Interpellation by D. Antón Sánchez García from G.P. of the Alternative Galician Left, on the assessment by the Galician Council of the situation in the Greek milk sector
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u258	Mr. Sánchez García has the floor to formulate this interpretation.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u259	Good afternoon. Counsellor, let's talk again about the dairy situation. I'm not going to extend much to the current situation either, we all know it. I believe that we all agree and it is impossible to deny the gravity of the situation – for some sheep, especially – a situation in which there is a significant percentage of sheep who are receiving prices that can be 20 cents, including 17, 21, 22, and there is no guarantee of milk collection, or there is uncertainty in the future for the collection of the milk of many sheep, when they were told that it was an opportunity for the end of the quota system to increase production. There's no guarantee of collection. There's a situation that we could call extortion by industry to some gain. We get cash out of livestock every day; for example, one sends us a settlement of 15,000 liters, they pay you 20 euros. There are also negative liquidations by the industry. There are negative liquidations for those greedy people who leave one company to sell to another. There are contracts in which they are told that, if they don't sign, they won't pay for the last month. Contracts are already sent with the recommendation to resign from the gainee for the duration of a year, etc.; a convulsive and very bad situation for the glovers, and besides it seems that now we have even forgotten that many months ago many do not charge even the milk to cover their costs. Now, in order for them to collect and pay, it seems like it's a luxury. We have always talked about political issues that can be resolved or helped to solve, crucial for this sector, as is the question of what we talked about yesterday, of the land base, of the objectives that are said to be pursued; of industrial projects, industrial projects to give output to the product, to regulate the market or to give added value; and, finally, of the normative framework that regulates the food chain and avoids abuse of the position of domination of distribution and industry on the owners, but that the rule is not in the paper, but in reality. So we asked you today about this situation, and you could extend me a little more. Yesterday, for example, we had enough talk about the territorial structure and the territorial base of farms. It's a failure for many years in this country. And we can talk about that industrial project with some bad history and bad precedents about this government. We want to know if there's going to be a milk bis diet nearby. We don't know why industrial project is going to wager this government, but let's make sure that we don't reproduce the Alliance of Galicia's bet on an industrial project without the necessary solvency. And as for the regulatory framework, the modification of the milk package seems like it hasn't even started, but it's not going to solve any of the problems, because you're already working on that change and the industries are still marking the pace. Finally, a question that is going on quite unnoticed, which is control over distribution. Control to distribution is fundamental, because it's the one that moves the price pressure down to low. On the other day, in Commission 6 I asked: what is the Council doing in Galicia to ensure that the distribution does not use food as a claim product for sale for loss? The fact is that the balance is rather poor, Counsellor, especially compared with other countries or with other autonomous communities. There is no penalty imposed on the distribution for sale for loss and use of food as a claim product, when in other autonomous communities there are, and when in Portugal last year, in 2014, sanctions were imposed worth two and a half million euros. At least, something's going on. In this country, in Galicia, nothing. It didn't start. In 2015, there are five ongoing files that have not been closed, that are still in progress. We have no more data, but no effort was made in that regard. And that's why we also want to ask whether or not there was a Galician strategic project for the end of the quota system, if there was a strategic project. Why was not even one paragraph included in the Rural Impact Development Programme that would have the end of the quota system on small and medium farms? I think because we didn't have that strategic project, and we didn't even plan the situation. We also want to know what is your assessment of the situation, basically what measures you are taking, what measures you are taking – especially in the control of what we call extortion to the gainees that is being given in the contract and in the payment of milk – what is being done from the industrial point of view, of transformation, where there are many rumors, many tell and direct, and we want to know, of course, that the shame of dairy foods will not be repeated and whether it is intensifying or whether it is doing something in what is controlling distribution, because we believe that yes is basic. From there you move down into the chain the pressure. And if you sell in this country 50 liters of milk that is sold in France to 80, because of course, that always moves to the weakest sector. And we believe, moreover, that it is not possible, that the failure is in this government, when in an autonomous community or in Portugal sanctions are applied to multinationals working in Galicia. Because multinationals work the same thing in Portugal, Murcia, Cantabria or Galicia, and so if they do these practices elsewhere, we know they do them here too. If there are no sanctions it is because there were errors or there was no political will to apply them. And we believe that, for now, the gloves are abandoned by the Government, the Council of Galicia, that there was no forecast, there was no project, a strategic plan for this moment. There's a total uncertainty, there's a delay in making quite big decisions. There was a meeting with agrarian organizations that requested it in March and that was in June. It's going to tug events and, above all, you in statements make sense, or even literally, that you have already complied with the adoption of a new milk package, which has already complied with the adoption of certain regulations. So, of course, the gainees are on the run. You even spoke of a neutral position. Counselor, you can't have a neutral position when things like this are happening here. You have to ensure that there is a balanced situation, and for a balanced situation there is no need to be neutral when a weak person is abused. We must help the weak one to be balanced with the other. So unfortunate statement that you have to have a neutral position between the industry and the winners. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u260	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. Answer from the advisor of the Middle Rural and Sea.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u261	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Sánchez, good afternoon. The dairy sector in Galicia, as in the rest of Spain and more of the European Union, is, as we all know, at a historic moment of transition. The milkman is a very important sector for Galicia, which accounts for 1.43% of our gross domestic product and depends on the economy of more than 15,000 Greek families. That's how any movement, however small it may be, has an impact on the pocket of many people on our land, as if it were some sort of butterfly effect. So, at this new starting point, which is the elimination of production quotas, you have to add another round of thread: a small part of the Galician sector has to deal with the overproduction fine as a result of the overpassing that was achieved in the last dairy campaign, where there were still limitations that, like any rule, had to be met. We are talking about about EUR 11 million in payment for all of Spain, which is going to be a new slab for, fortunately, a number of farmers substantially below what was feared in principle. The repeated and constant warnings of the Administration were able to curb the unmeasured euphoria of many greedy men who were experiencing encouragement by some guru who took them from direct hand to a well. In any case, Mr. Sánchez, this normal transition period should not lead us to deception or lead us to an unreal diagnosis. We have always maintained that the liberalisation of production should be considered an opportunity, and I continue to maintain it. Not in vain, Galicia is one of the regions of the European Union with the most favourable agro-climatic characteristics to make this production profitable. If we note that, in addition to the administration's hand, the producer sector has been preparing for the past few years to increase its professionalism, improve its means of production and gain in competitiveness, it is obvious that we are faced with an opportunity for the future that necessarily passes by taking advantage of the potentials that make available to it, among others, the milk package. A package of measures that was the work of a popular government that had to put the batteries into a record time to get what others in two legislates, and knowing what was going on, they didn't mind even touching. You ask me about the degree of compliance with the agreements signed with agricultural organizations in 2012, and I invite you to answer what you are not doing. We have kept the meetings committed in time and form, we have worked for the Ministry to recognize the particularities and needs of the Greek sector, we have complied with the national control plan, we have financially supported the sector, and yesterday we even approved in this Parliament the Law on the Improvement of the Agrarian Structure of Galicia. We are working on the achievement of the following tools, which make the sector available, through the Galician Milk Sector Observatory and its website, the rate of evolution of the costs of producing the dairy dairy farms and the "Xacobea" software tool, which provides a value to which it refers when setting a price of milk in the contract and signing. Since 2014, more than 30,000 accesses have been registered for less than two years. I was talking at the beginning of my intervention that we find ourselves in a transition process, and you ask me about the results derived from the application of the milk package and the Food Chain Law as regards the bargaining power of the livestock with regard to industry. Well, the first result has to do with what is possible for the first time that the producer sector can better defend its interests from dairy producers' organisations. You are well aware that the Administration cannot negotiate. I don't get tired of repeating that the past is to learn and not to repeat the mistakes again. Following are the sanctions that some primary sector is still paying today as a result of certain irresponsible management of some government – which is not one of the current ones. They'll never find me using the sector like a monk. In the wake of legality, which is where my team and I like to move, we promote all channels and see associationism as the best negotiating formula. So, we have the decree that regulates the procedure for the recognition and registration of milk producers' organizations, known as OPL. In this legal framework, organisations may negotiate, on behalf of their partners, all mandatory elements of contracts in order to achieve a balance of force between the producer sector and the sector in contractual negotiations. Here in Galicia, the producer sector took the initiative to create two such organizations, Ulega and Aprolac, which, if they had received and received all the support possible from the Union, it is true that unfortunately today they have not been able to complete a single negotiation with the milk-purchasing sector. You know, Mr. Sánchez, that I'm not from throwing balloons out, but I like to call it bread, bread; and wine, wine. So, also answering another of my questions about my assessment of the data published by the INE on the structure of the Greek agricultural holdings, I'm telling you that the X-ray does not correspond at all to what you're trying to project. Explain. If we analyze the evolution of data published year by year, it's true that the number of dairy farms has been decreasing, but you're aware that this reality that repeats as though it were a mantra does not mean that the dairy sector had lost weight in Galicia; rather, those holdings have been resized, joined together and becoming larger and more competitive. We don't want our community, far from losing productive capacity, increasing it. Data indicate that the total production of milk in Galicia has increased by 4.24% in the last ten years, the average production per holding rose by 213% in the same period and the number of cows per holding has increased in the last six years from 18 to 28 heads, which means an increase of 51%. In addition, the average farmland area per farm from 2009 to 2013 suffered an increase of 3.6%. It's small, but not INE. And Asturias, which you refer to, went down in the same period by 6.3%. Ask me, in addition, why did the PDR sent to Brussels not include an analysis of the impact of the end of quotas on the sector? And the question is, do you think that including a larger number of aid measures for the sector that in the previous RDP is none of it? In addition to the improvement plan measures, the first installation of young people, the first installation of small farms, advisory measures, measures for agricultural cooperatives, measures for dairy industries and a long-term period of time, there are measures for areas with natural limitations, which in this programme will be able to perceive the milk sector. We managed to eliminate the maximum gain burden, which was not met by our dairy farms. And in the RDP that we're about to finish, dairy farms were out of the compensatory mountain compensation aid, the difference that we're doing now. This, Mr. Sánchez, is because if we are interested in the dairy sector, what we show day by day working for and for him. If you still don't think we've been looking at the end of the dairy quota to produce this RDP, I don't know if I care about you or about the... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] When they ask me about our proposals to introduce in the dairy package decree, I'll tell you that my team immediately put hands on the work when they found that, as I have already pointed out, OPL's performance was not enough to improve the negotiator position of the producer sector. So, in collaboration with the Magram, we took the initiative to quickly modify the real decree seeking to achieve the minimum real duration of a year for contracts and to incorporate the possibilities of using a mediation system on the assumption that we do not get an agreement in negotiations. Not happy, and knowing that many buyers used the right of the owner to renounce the minimum duration of the contract to pressure them, the Council recently proposed in the European Parliament the elimination of that regulatory right so that it could not be used by buyers as an extortional element in contract negotiations. We went to Brussels, we defended the sector; we went to Madrid, we defended the sector; and here we work with the sector to continue to defend it. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u262	Thank you, Counselor. Round of parliamentary groups. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u263	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, Counselor. I'm going to start with something that draws my attention, which you are turning to today, which is the approval of Galician Agricultural Structure Act, an approval only with the votes of the People's Party and therefore not responding to the needs of our farm. We did not try to reach a consensus agreement that had really established a policy that would have responded for many years to our needs. So instead of a success, I think it was a failure to pass that agricultural structure law. It's also a recurring thing in the Union to say that it can't act to defend interests whether it's the gain and the gain or the workers and workers. You can always stand up for the interests of companies, multinationals, but when you talk about the interests of the people, you can't act there, it's always a problem between companies and workers, between companies and owners. But you can't act there, you can't even mediate. That's right, they can't even mediate and there's not even an industrial policy. I think it should be on the Union calendar to support a Welsh dairy industry, which, of course, as the AGE spokesman said, does not become another fiasco like that of Milk Food. So, I think it's time for Junta to change her attitude, that dialogue, that she hears, that she's ambitious, that she doesn't just keep her face-washed and makeup, as she passed with the Agrarian Structure Law, and that she really feels like she's talking about a deep reformulation of how we're going to defend our agriculture from a global point of view, of how to establish population, create wealth, make use of our mountains in a rational way, and of how to produce quality food for the feeding of the whole people. Policies that you are not interested in, that you refuse to talk about, which, therefore, has led to the rejection of all amendments to the opposition, almost all amendments. I hope that the policies of the Union will focus more on defending the sector of the abuses of distributors and stop looking elsewhere, because that is what is happening right now, a particularly difficult moment. And I do think you didn't take into account the end of milk quotas to prepare the sector. They just saw how they got it all, as they didn't get ready for the end of the veto on the naval, too. You wait for things to come and then, of course, you prepare for any excuse. He's right, they don't wait. You are aware that they arrive but do nothing, because your interests are there, in what you stand for. But I also want to insist that the disappearance of dairy quotas – and you have said it now – is an opportunity, it must be taken as an opportunity to improve production and take advantage of the comparative advantages that Galicia has, especially in the production of fodder for livestock feeding and in the production of high-quality milk that can be very competitive within Europe. Support for the creation or recovery of family dairy farms should be a priority for any German government. Supporting the existing dairy sector and promoting the creation or recovery of family dairy farms would be the way to end with the disastrous result of their policies, which made our farm a place full of cows without land and abandoned lands without people. That's the picture of our countryside. It's a tremendous thing, and I don't understand how, insistently, when we talk about the countryside, when we talk about depopulation, Junta doesn't have a single plan. But besides, if you have it, it's certainly not the plan for the Greeks and the Greeks, because it's made of backs to the Greeks and to the Greeks. Therefore, it is aimed at the most radical failure, as it is aimed at the most radical failure, any greedy policy that fails to take into account the opinion of the greedy and gainful. It is Galicia that is completely affected by these policies, by the renunciation of food sovereignty, which is nothing but the production of food of sufficient quality, which has to be a strategic line for the next government of Greece, which I am sure will not be directed by you. That's why I hope that from the next government we can change these destructive policies. Not only because of the obligation to put quality food at the disposal of consumers but also to restore agriculture, to maintain the ecological balance and the impact which, as you yourself have now acknowledged, has the sector within the German gross domestic product. I insist and will insist that support for the milk sector is needed with budget, because support in words and in speeches but without budget and without action is useless. A budget necessary to alleviate the possible negative effects that existing holdings will have to address from the disappearance of the milk quota system. We started from a difficult situation for the more than 10,000 Galician dairy farms that see as soon dissipated the large amounts of money invested in acquiring production rights that were assured that they would guarantee a stable framework of prices, which they didn't even have at the moment. But we all know that all of this was a mistake. A constant demand from the producer sector is the need to establish a framework of relations between producers and dairy companies with the minimum stability that enables planning in production and industry and the economic survival of both. They only claim to end or diminish the effects of the jungle law that governs today the relations between production, industry and marketing. As in the labour reform, which has established a great imbalance between employers' rights and the lack of working class rights, the same now happens in the field, where all rights have large distributors, and the abandoned, the victims, those abandoned by the administration, are the gain and the gain. For many years, what was requested since production was as simple and reasonable as approved contracts that served to provide minimum security for the owners. The administrations' response was almost always the one they now give in a different way, but always that excuse that the obligation of contracts to guarantee minimum prices to production in origin could address free competition, which, as we all know, is the expression used by the ultraliberals who rule us to refer to the freedom of the rich and powerful to crush the people. That's your free competition. We have already talked about competition in this House, which, when it comes to demanding competition between milk, the story changes. But it is very difficult to get them, because the National Market and Competition Commission lacks means, much more so when it is charged with monitoring producers as well, with no capacity to influence prices, and companies, which are the real monopolies of collection in large areas of our country. It takes time, but I only hope that they will cease to be a government subject to Madrid, a government subject to Europe, and become a government defending the interests of the Greek people, the interests of their land, their livestock and their landowners. I hope you hear the wish. I don't think so, because it would be the first time the German Government had listened to what the rulers and the knights had given it and what the opposition had told it. I don't laugh, I don't laugh, because I'm very sorry, very sad, to see what they're doing with our country. It's awesome. It's destructive. I call it self-hatred, because I don't know how to define what you're doing with our country. I say it's self-hatred. Maybe that's not the word. You define what is a government that governs so that every day in your country people live worse, be poorer and have less rights. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u264	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. For the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Paz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u265	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Counsellor, the truth is, I don't know whether it's for air conditioning or for the shock that it causes me to hear you speak so coldly and repeat that mantra of these theoretical virtues and advantages which has the decree of contractualization of the dairy sector; but frankly, Counselor, I think you – not a personal qualification, of course, is a political qualification of the Government's whole – I am a government with zero empathy. You can't be less empathic with what you're suffering from all the people out there looking after the cows to lose money at the end of the month, you can't be less empathic than coming here and saying that you've done everything, that you have all your instruments at your service or at your disposal to negotiate, but that they're useless, right? because they've constituted some OPLs that are unable to negotiate anything. Because that's what you came to say here, that they had all the capacity of the world, that there were contracts, that there were bargaining instruments, that even through associationism they were made available to them all the instruments to be able to negotiate, but that unfortunately the OPLs that were set up in Galicia were unable to negotiate even one single contract. Well, look, Counselor, frankly, for that we excuse a Rural Councillorship, you're disbanded. Because, look, no matter how many things you can do since the Council, the first thing you should do is show some concern about the sector and the empathy you're going through out there. Second, that the administration cannot negotiate is another mantra that you systematically repeat, but all of us here have seen them negotiate when it suits Mr. Nuñez Feijóo. We've seen him negotiate in Paris. I don't know what about some vans. We've seen him negotiate in Mexico. I don't know what about the fleets we've never seen his hair on, and until we've seen him negotiate with champagne with gentlemen who were tried yesterday for stealing money from all the Greeks and Greeks. And then you come here that you can't negotiate to guarantee people who work every day from 6:00 in the morning to 11:00 in the evening that they get a decent and fair price for their work? That's all right, Counselor! That's good! We all know what can be done and what can't be done since the administration, and it's also good that you set the example of the cheekbone. Because there were contracts in the dairy sector, there was a milk table, there was a dairy sector observatory where prices were indexed and there was no penalty. So don't come here to take us out whenever the wolf comes, the wolf comes, because it's true, we don't want the sector to be used as monks, which was the expression you used. But do you know how you use it? Okay, they don't use it as Monicreques, but do you know how they use the dairy sector? Like "the bag of the..." and let each one put the word you want next. That's what you consider the dairy sector. Look, the situation is totally out of control in the dairy sector. We've spent months, many months in which no one, no one, no one, the Ministry, no board, no one, no one, is absolutely watching for the minimum rules of the right to negotiation that theoretically establishes the law and decree to favor the owners. No one's looking at why the signed contractual relations are being fulfilled. Contracts are signed here and it's like they've signed on a verse and then they've fed her to the cows, Counselor. And no one is concerned that the clauses laid down in those contracts are complied with. Prices are falling free, but that's not the only serious thing anymore. In addition to the prices in free fall, there is an imposition by industry even from time to time, how and where milk can be produced in this country. At this point, the dictatorship of the dairy industries and the distribution without which no one's aiming at them will be unbearable in this country. Counsellor, this is turning the sector into a true despair, because, of course, your attitude does not see any kind of solution to the sector, and puts it at serious risk, even though you come here with artificial figures. Because they're artificial as you give them. It's true there's more production, it's true there's more land in some farms, but it's artificial the use that you make of this data, because it's true that you're losing employment in the dairy sector, it's true that you're losing the ability to generate jobs, to incorporate young people into the dairy sector, because it's about despair, because you see who's the brave person who's going to produce milk today knowing that tomorrow's not going to know who's got who to sell it or who's going to sell it. And in this situation, Counselor, we've been demanding you to do something for months. The Ministry doesn't do anything, we don't expect the Ministry to do anything anymore. But we hope you do something. Because, look, Counselor, governing is more than just looking at the CEO, governing is also making decisions, even if sometimes they're risky. And making decisions in the case of the dairy sector is because, if they don't do it in Madrid, you get an interprofessional milk, a milk table, or you call it whatever you want. Because to govern – if in Madrid they don't, and if the sector doesn't, because it doesn't have the ability to do it – is that you are looking for some kind of industrial project for this country that can make us see a minimum perspective for the future without always being dependent on the French industry gangsters, Counselor. That's what you should be doing instead of coming here, whenever we ask you about the dairy sector, telling us that the thing is going to be wonderful and that we are the ones who are wrong and that we always want to create a ghost around the dairy sector. Look, Counselor, the situation is really desperate for people, but it's going to be a lot more. Because there are decisions you've made and ineptitudes of your government that are causing even more despair in people. I don't know if you know that today, and even though they've supposed to fix it, there's still problems making requests for the help of the CAP, the program continues to hang up permanently. Your CEO recognised the other day in the Commission that you cannot guarantee this year's CAP aid will be covered before the end of this year 2015. And you know what's going to happen, Counselor? That there are a lot of winners who, with the CAP aid paid between the end of November and the beginning of December, paid all the financial debts they have with the financial institutions as a result of investments they made in the past. And so you know that the situation is going to get really worse by the end of the year. And you know that right now there are farms that are something more than drowning, because it comes a time of a lot of expenses caused by the silage, by the corn, by all those things that we know they have to do the dairy farms. And banking institutions, despite what Mrs. Ulloa told us the other day, are not granting advances on the basis of the CAP applications, they are not granting them. And you know there are cases – and it's happened a recent case fifteen days ago here, next to Compostela – that lead to the owners making sometimes absolutely dramatic decisions, so dramatic that they are definitive. You understand me, I don't think I need to explain anything else to you. We are turning people into self-destruction because they see no future prospects, and because there is no government that accompanies them, a government that helps them get out of this situation. Look, Counsellor, that milk quotas ended on April 1, 2015, we've known since 2009, seven years. What did the Government do to prepare that stage, to adapt that stage to the end of milk chops? Nothing, Counselor, you didn't do anything, and you're coming with yesterday's law of METAGA. Look, Counsellor, the dramatic thing is that at this point in a lot of things that we said two and three years ago, what we had to do to improve the situation in the dairy sector, to reduce costs, to be more competitive, like incorporating land, etc., I think unfortunately we're already getting a little late. Because the situation is so unsustainable that there are many creditors who, when they receive those contracts from Mr. Sánchez, who are no longer contracts, are blackmails, not only for the price, but for the conditions, bring them a contract and tell them: sign six months and I pay you so much; if you sign sweet, I pay you so much less, and if you sign three and at the same time sign me that you voluntarily renounced the contract, I pay you half a hundredth more; and if not, I pay you 17 cents. You know? That kind of practice, that, is happening right now in the dairy sector, and the situation is so desperate that these greedy...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u266	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u267	...what many of them tell us is that they don't know if they'll be able to stop until the end of this month, or until the end of next month. But, in any case, they no longer have any wealth, no savings left to be drawn from to keep up the situation and to keep what was their vital project, which was that dairy exploitation. That's why, Counselor, you, who started saying she wasn't a supporter or proclite to throw balloons out, take the milk-sector balloon and do something. A little thing you'll do will see how you'll notice. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u268	Thank you, Mrs. Paz. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr. García.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u269	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Counselor. Actually, I think what you just did here today is indecent. In the face of the situation that is going through thousands of sheep, in the face of the problem that exists in this country, with which it means economically and socially – and does not enter into human aspects, which also, without reaching those, there are many dramatic – that some sheep, some of those sheep, had been watching television today, or that they had seen her afterwards and heard her speech, it's really indecent. Because you can't be more apathetic, you can't say anything by talking all the time, and you can't lie as you lied. Counsellor, I've told you several times: the milk package had to be developed once European legislation was approved. When Mr. Cañete arrived at the Ministry, he had a draft decree on milk which was already binding on contracts for a year, and you took three years to publish that decree just to change that aspect. And you know that. If you don't know, you've been misinformed, and therefore if you don't know, it's worse, because then it's incompetent. It's worse, and it doesn't laugh because it's not funny. That you are incompetent is the least, the worst is for those who suffer it, and there are many families who have suffered it all these years. And, Counsellor, the importance you give you is that, after all this problem, if this is one of the most serious problems this country has, you will have time. I think I would give the dairy sector three parliamentary sessions. And you'll have to spend the ten minutes of the exhibition, always. It ends with the phrase "We're always, we'll be and we'll stay next to the sector" and it ends with the seven minutes you have to hold here. A mere process. Counsellor, they did not take any measures to try to avoid this situation. This situation came under circumstances, but you didn't take it... I never said the task was easy, it's more, I wouldn't dare judge you not even for the results, not even for the results, but for the facts. And you have done absolutely nothing to avoid this situation, you have never exercised any kind of leadership so that decisions affecting us as the most important community in this sector would be heard. They were state government accomplices in the laxity and in the delay of developing that regulation, they were accomplices in the process of removing it, and they made it wrong; they were accomplices in the time of correction saying they had done it wrong, and they corrected it wrong again. And you're an accomplice to that, you and the president of the board. You come here taking care of the management of the milk rate, while all of Europe, all the surplus milk-producing countries were telling the livestock, and they were doing everything possible for that, that the livestock would produce more and more to adapt, to enter the new system, for you your solution was that there was no fine, your solution was to tell the livestock that they had to stop producing, and come here today still above taking care of that. Counsellor, come here saying that this is a great deal of management, which, before the imminent entry where to produce more and more, you spent six months telling the owners that they had stopped producing. Is that well done, Counselor? Indecent, indecent! He didn't really say anything about dairy food. We still went without an explanation, in a project that Mr. President – and you, therefore – invented to stop another project where the whole cooperative sector was and where the whole producer sector was, and put it in hand to two concelers of the People's Party, to waste 8 million euros of the taxpayers of this country, and without paying attention to the sector itself – who already told him it was going to happen – or to the agricultural organizations – that they told him what had happened – or to the opposition parties – that they had already told him that what had happened – and not even the manager who was hired, who had already told him that the thing was going to happen and that it was going to happen. The solution was to change the manager immediately and bring another one, paying him a little more so he wouldn't say they were doing the wrong thing. And indeed, as Mr Sánchez said, even without learning anything. He didn't explain that new project as it seems they're immersed. What's it about? We're talking about having the lowest prices in Europe and basically because we don't have an industry that transforms and generates products that have a value in the market and therefore there's a value added to that production so that we can pay more to the producers, and their solution and that of Mr. Feijóo is making a dust tower? Counsellor, how can milk be paid in powder in the international market? Is that the future you have for the sector? Is that all that happens to you? Is that the whole project? Counselor, you've also been told here up to the most trivial things, because you didn't have to make huge strategic decisions either. They were complicit, once again, in sharing the aid of the CAP, they were accomplices not negotiating well, they were complicit when they joined that political position of the People's Party that there was no transfer of funds between autonomous communities or between sectors. And, therefore, a historic opportunity was lost so that the sectors that benefited were the sectors that were in Galicia. But they are accomplices now even to something as simple as dealing with the aid of the CAP and in which today we can't guarantee – you can guarantee – that you can – that you can deal with it normally, and the gloves don't have any difficulty in handling your help. Explain why they have to vary their cultivation model, against other communities or the difference between other autonomous communities, production in order to be able to access greening aid or green payment. Counsellor, that's your management. Home!, it's true, Galicia still has potential because it has an enviable agroclimatic position and advantages. They haven't come that far. In fact, Galicia continues to have a favourable climate for dairy production. And so far I don't think they'll make it. We're talking, Counsellor, about a sector coming out here... how many plans for improvement did you approve last year, Counselor, that they didn't have incorporation? None! Only the incorporations; that is, those that incorporated two years ago, when they wanted to continue developing their plan of improvement, they had no money to give them and they all stayed out. That's your management, Counselor. Indeed, when the European Commission itself returns the PDR to you and tells you – among other things, four hundred things that tell you that they are not minors – we don't know anything yet about the PDR. Counselor, the problem is... of course, how are you not going to say Rajoy that they communicate badly? You don't communicate! Because with all these problems and the most difficult situation in the sector you haven't said anything, you don't say anything. You come here and you have an appearance about the dairy sector and you don't say anything, you don't say a plan; you don't even, indeed, make a diagnosis of why what is happening to us is happening and why despite this problem which is true that it is European in Galicia we have a differential. What are our prospects? How long can we have a forecast to improve the price of milk? Something, Counselor! In all this process, in all these months, you haven't said anything, absolutely nothing, it's as if it didn't exist. And you have an appearance to talk about the dairy sector – I repeat – with the numbers, which I give you for good, with all the people who affect, with the difficulty, which I give you for good – and I think it's more than all you just exposed here – and it speaks seven minutes and says nothing but redundant phrases and what it is and is supporting and on the side of the sector. Counsellor, that's the problem. And the top of the hives – and that's why it fits, more indecent – is that, even if it were true, it would be indecent. Even if what you say is the fault of the producers and the OPLs was true, it would be politically indecent for a counselor to say it; even if it was true, it wasn't. And you know it's not, and if you don't know it -- we return to it -- then much worse. If you don't know and if you really believe that, what someone wrote to you or what you wrote, if you think that, then it's much worse, it's much worse. From the labeling the European Commission has just said that this is to label the origin of milk, indeed, which is of no importance and which must not be done. The board said nothing, absolutely nothing, whether he agreed or not, what he thought. Counsellor, the problem is that this sector doesn't have too many days – and I'm talking about days already. It's just that there's a lot of exploitation that, if you don't see a horizon, if you don't see what you should see, a ruler, a councilman, a president of the board, that can give you a horizon of what you're going to be facing, surely make decisions, and make decisions that will not lead to anything good, Counsellor, for this country. I know that, at best, not for you and the president, but for this country. Counsellor, you've been giving yourself headless drums in this sector since you arrived; Mr. President has been having breakfast in Madrid for many months. Mr. President will leave for Madrid. You...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u270	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u271	...will continue as a advisor until citizens fix it, but the problem is that people fall on their way every day and month. And please, not for me, really, not for the House, not for democracy, not for the president, not for the institution, in case someone is watching it there, don't be indecent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u272	Thank you, Mr. García. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs. García Pacín.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u273	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, ladies. Mr. García, for Madrid you're probably looking at some socialist badge. Well, today we hear new qualifications, new adjectives. He spoke of empathy, he spoke of indecentness. Indeed, Counsellor, here the opposition is still in its core, its criticism of the establishment of the frontal opposition to the management of the Government. But I think those results from the past 24 were what gave them in rural a total trust, nationalistic gentlemen. [[Murmurs.]] Because we really have to breast-feed, ladies and gentlemen. They were the governments of the People's Party, it was the policies and ideology of the People's Party that brought us to this situation, Counselor, to a situation in which the Greek milk sector draws its breast, in which we have a situation far from what they described us, especially the Voice Lady of the Mixed Group. [[Murmurs.]] Because yesterday he spoke about the treatment of METAGA in the dairy sector, but today he spoke about the shipbuilding sector, he spoke about labour reform, even food sovereignty. I believe that with the lack of rigor and the lack of participation in the processing of such an important law as the improvement of the agricultural territorial structure, from the Joint Group, they can't breast-feed, because indeed they have been ashamed, Your Honor. They have given political shame in defending the interests with which you intend to be an alternative to government. And we can actually say today that the Welsh dairy farms are going through a difficult time, for a complicated moment, but they have the Administration next to them, not the opposition groups, who continue to insult, who continue to use demagogy. Because, nationalistic gentlemen, I'm wrong. [[Murmurs.]] Today they were talking about veracity, but I'm talking about Bantegal, about the fights they left behind in stores, about propaganda, about which I understood that you were the most architects in slogans. Because I remember Mr. Suárez Canal saying that in one year he was able to mobilize 100,000 hectares of productive land. He really stayed on that, in a big slogan. Because the Greeks, loud and clear, told them that their policies are not the right ones, that they are others. But, of course, others don't go through socialist policies. Because today it was mentioned here that in 2009 they were aware of the disappearance of the contingency system. Socialist gentlemen, what did you do, who ruled, who had competence at the national level? The soft landing, remember? 1%, when the production in the last few years was rising to 2%. I understand it's a day today to use political demagogy, not to give. Because in order to contribute, we are waiting for the alternatives that the Alternative Gaga de Left is probably considering in the motion as a result of today's debate. Then we hope to see something more than generalities. What measures? What proposals? What are you looking for? Because, ladies and gentlemen, in the exhibition you did, I believe that the administration's performance, both at the autonomous level and at the national level, was exemplary. I believe that the socialist administration at the national level, which left drafts, Counsellor... said Mr. García had a draft of a decree. [[Laughter]] Mr. Garcia, for whom did this draft come? He doesn't wake up because you weren't here. But then there was a Middle Rural Counsellor in which projects and proposals were made... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u274	They don't dialogue.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u275	...legislatives at the Congress of Deputies and who had to pull out, for the first time, I believe that in history, real decrees in anticipation of European rules and regulations. Mr. Garcia, don't raise your head because, yes, you were the one who sold the national state's share of Ebro Puleva. Yes, to those French gangsters, Mrs. Peace, these were the ones that really... because, of course, these political leaders are thrown into their mouths by naming the failures of which no one is proud. [[Murmurs.]] But do you remember the firm support for the transformation of milk...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u276	Quiet, please. Let them finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u277	...in Caldas de Reis, in Clesa? Do you remember or try to underestimate all the management that has been done over the past six years? Because, Mr. Garcia, you're talking about not joining the boys. Of course, because at that time we had, at other times, campaigns to stay in the countryside. Do you remember the large amounts of public funds that they didn't give, that the only thing they did was really propaganda...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u278	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u279	Yes, ingent is an adjective but it's real.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u280	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u281	...just like you use "bad."
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u282	Quiet. Quiet, please. As for who is in the use of the word.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u283	The evil policies of these governments are those that rural people, choice after choice...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u284	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u285	...electoral quote after election...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u286	Please! That trio to see if you might not interrupt, please, because it's very annoying.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u287	...to trust those who have it, to show with facts... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u288	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u289	...that you are no alternative to government, gentlemen. You're not an alternative to government. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, Galicia today is leading not only the dairy sector at Spain level but we are one of the main producing regions within the regions producing antonomasy of Europe. We believe that the German Government has not only to consolidate this production but to increase it. And with regulations such as those that these people are denigrating, deosing and criticizing, regulations that come to be useful tools – and so time will prove it – to be able to establish the weight that Galician production must have; so that the atomization of Galician production gradually disappears; so that the food chain, the transformation... [[Murmurs.]] I believe that with all this murmuring that is heard they try to make the speech, that the arguments that we use in debate after debate, are belittled and unappreciative. That's the respect you have for this House, it's the respect you have for parliamentarians. Because what is said from these benches always has to be taken care of, we always have to be consistent with the Rules of Procedure and comply with them. [[Applause]] Instead, when you don't listen, when you don't agree... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u290	Quiet, Mrs. Thursdays, please. I'll call her in order.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u291	...with the arguments of the other side, with the arguments mostly supported, gentlemen, that really is not respect, it is not political respect, which is what we really demand. [[Applause]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Murmurs.]] Ladies and gentlemen, in recent months, duties have been made, not only with regard to regulations, but also with regard to sanctions, inspections, the actions of the competition bodies. Because the tables, Mrs. Peace, are often dangerous; the tables where prices are specified at the beginning, where they try to influence competition. You, mixed-group voicer, really don't try to transfer the reality you see. You're in a reality where the farms are still the exploits of survival, but we're far beyond you, on competitive farms, on competitive cooperatives, where there's going to be... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u292	Mrs. Martínez, Mrs. Martínez...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u293	...transform projects, projects...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u294	Mrs. Martínez, silence! if not, I have to call her in order.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u295	...where the liquid milk is produced in Galicia, in quality and in quantity, with everything the sector is betting on, and the producers are the first. Because you've shown even the quotas, and all the investments that have been made in buying the quotas. He allowed that, Your Honor, that Galicia had led this sector. It allowed, Mrs. Paz, that agricultural policies, such as payments from the common agricultural policy, had to come from the People's Party to advance and request, for the first time in several consecutive years, that payments should be made in November, and to make effective payments, which took – when you left power – almost a year without being able to charge the producers. It was the governments of the People's Party, responsible, who really gave a solution and are solving the dairy sector. But not only to the dairy sector, but to all the productive sectors...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u296	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u297	...agrarians, dynamizing the countryside, fixing the population, because, unfortunately, they're going to have a future in rural areas. It's going to be a job niche to mobilize the new population. But not just... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u298	Quiet, please! Let them finish who's using the word. Please, a little respect.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u299	...the rural economy will benefit...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u300	Excuse me a moment, Mrs. Garcia Pacín. A little bit of respect to who is in the use of the word. No one likes us, when we're in the gallery, who interrupts us. So I ask respect for who is in the use of the word. I think it's normal. Go ahead, Mrs. Garcia Pacín.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u301	Thank you, Mr. President. It really doesn't matter, because I think everyone is portrayed in their position about education, and, above all, in doing well, in the management that is demonstrating day by day this councillor and the Galician board. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u302	Thank you, Mrs. García Pacín. Replica. Mr. Sánchez García. Quiet. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Quiet, please. Silence! Whenever you want, Mr. Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u303	I think that just Mrs. Garcia Pacín plays her role... she does her job, but, speaking of such an important subject, we must not fall into distraction. He said, for example – she has demanded rigor from others – of rigor... Mrs. Prado, if you will, then send me a text and we speak. [[Applause]] He said that the actions of the German Government in the dairy sector were exemplary. They are in all universities studying the policies of the Government of Greece for the dairy sector. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] They're setting an example for Milk Food, with efficient, honest and honest management, and they haven't wasted 8 million euros to give them to their friends. They are in all universities studying the Government of Greece in land management, when 100,000 hectares of useful agrarian surface were lost from 2007 to 2013. It's embossing. Yes, sir, exemplar! And they're studying the policies of the German Government, when money is allowed to be paid to them by 17 cents, and if they're threatened with not collecting. These are the solutions Mrs. García Pacín said to bring the People's Party. This is the reality they're in, they're exhilarating. I'm a sample of repeated incompetence for many years. I'm tired of saying it, but I say it with data. Mrs. García Pacín and Mrs. Counsellor don't provide any data when they say they're good management. I bring data, and Mrs. Counsellor, when she gets mixed up with the data, she skates. Yeah, yeah, skate, yeah. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] He talked about INE data, so I asked him where to get the data. INE? All right. The INE says – the accounts are very easy –: In 2007 there were 748,000 hectares of useful agrarian surface, and there were 88,000 farms. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Make the division, 8.49 hectares per holding. [[Murmurs.]] In 2013, six years later, 650,000 hectares; nearly 100,000 hectares of useful agrarian surface were lost. We divided between 79,000 – after 9,000 farms are lost – and they are 8.25. Even the area was lost per holding. That's the data from the National Institute of Statistics that you've named. When data is given, skating, and the rest does not provide data. The situation, according to the rigor of the People's Party, is when it is said – like Mrs. García Pacín – that we will work to end the atomization of the dairy sector. Ah!, the problem of the dairy sector now is atomization! Yeah, well, it's the very atomized sector. All right, that's the rigor. When the solutions have just fixed the population; you talk about fixing the population in rural areas. The Counsellor came here and did not make an account of what the German Government has planned, or is doing, to solve a situation that is dramatic, desperate, for many people. Yes, sir, desperate for a lot of people. And I mean, there are a lot of people who resort to parliamentary groups and come to bring the liquidations. And as I said before, for example, 15,000 liters are paid at 20 euros; 50,000 liters with negative liquidations, etc. There are contracts for those who are obliged to give up the duration of a year and, if not, milk is not collected. When there's a situation of uncertainty. But there's also a situation of not collecting milk from farms that have done their homework, not like the German Government. They've done their homework, because if they're told, we have to be indebted, we have to be very modern, we have to invest in technology, we have to invest in quota. They've done it, and it's farms that have a lot of debt, that they have to pay every month and they can't, they don't have the ability to bear so many months by charging under the cost of the price. And they don't have the capacity – as we have said here – to the delays in the CAP aid, which are fundamental, unfortunately, because the price is not paid to them. Therefore, the Counselor came here and said nothing. I don't know if it's a parliamentary tactic to come here now and talk – now yes, this time – when there's no replication, what they're doing to control distribution. And he's also talking about sanctions. Which sanctions were put in Galicia for distribution, when we're all tired of knowing that milk is used as a claim product and sold for losses, or when we're tired of watching milk at 50 cents or 55, that it's impossible to pay the producer a decent price? What's done? There is no penalty, not one! There is in Murcia, there is in Cantabria, there is in Portugal, but not in Galicia. What's the matter, what Carrefour here works in different ways? It doesn't work in different ways, what happens is that you didn't act, that's the reality.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u304	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u305	We say: we cannot negotiate, the free market, the free market. Yes, we want a treatment like the electric sector, like the electric sector! Yes, sir, we want that treatment for the dairy sector, right? Then you can intervene. That's always when companies are guaranteed the supposed costs.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u306	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u307	And if he doesn't get the bill at the supposed costs, then there's a tariff deficit. Not here, here, if you pay the milk at ten cents, who gets the sheep.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u308	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u309	Here, if you extort the glove, pick up the glove and don't have the government's backing. Besides, I came here to do an interrogation. I asked questions and they didn't answer me.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u310	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u311	We're not told what's going to be done with the distribution or what's going to be done with that industrial project. You haven't talked about that industrial project, if it's going to be a Milk Bis. And he didn't talk about...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u312	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u313	I'm finishing up, Mr. President...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u314	It's been a minute, Mr. Sánchez. It takes a minute over time. Finish, please. Your time is up. Please finish, Mr. Sánchez. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] That's it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u315	I don't have time to talk about the results of the People's Party in the municipal elections. I wanted to congratulate the People's Party on the results of the municipal elections, which were, of course, very...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u316	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. Thank you, Mr. Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u317	They were waiting for congratulations.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u318	Your time is up. Replica, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u319	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Sánchez, see if I can answer all your questions. I understand I gave them to you first. I've come here to answer an inquiry you made me, not to an appearance, as Mr. Garcia said. I'll try to sum up everything I've explained to you, everything we're talking about. First I'd like to clarify some things. At no time did I say I had adopted a neutral position. If someone has interpreted it that way, it's not my problem. I don't understand that I've done my job; quite the opposite. I think I've always said that, and that's how I'm working. Not in the media, but in the offices, the closed door, and I'm working. I'm working because I'm seeing that there are things we still have to change. And it doesn't hurt me to admit that in three years we had to change the milk package, and it's changed. And we've already come to Brussels to consider something new. And we're seeing that what was a benefit to the producer sector, the possibility of renouncing him from his contract, is being used by some to pressure him. So we also went to Brussels to ask for that possibility to be changed and the gainee does not even have the possibility of resigning the contract for a year. That's how we're trying to change, and we recognize it. And we're trying to cover all the holes. Why? Because we always said it, the Greek Government is next to the producer sector, and so you've been defending it since the first minute. But being next to the producer sector doesn't mean we don't defend the industry and we don't defend the distribution, because, Mr. Sánchez, you know that the three elements of the chain are fundamental. [[Applause]] We can't have a competitive producer sector if we don't have a competitive dairy industry, and that's why we're going to support the dairy industry as well. And we can't have a competitive dairy industry if we don't have a distribution that bets on marketing our products; and we'll keep working on the distribution as well. [[Applause]] And that's not posture. Indecent are other things. Indecent is to come here to tell lies. Indecent is to come here and say that I'm very proud of what we've done. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Indecent is that in 2008 a counselor said it was a historic step to get the contract approved, and now that 25 historical steps have been taken, have we not done anything? [[Murmurs.]] Man, please, please! That's disgusting. [[Applause]] Indecent is saying that now the price of milk is very low, and it's at 30.3 cents. Indescent was that 2007 – from July 2007 to December 2009 – the milk dropped 21 cents, and at that time there was no problem with the dairy sector. That's disgusting, Mr. Garcia! That's disgusting. Indecent is not wanting to recognize the subjects. [[Applause]] I never said it was all done, that my work had already come to an end. Don't! I always say here we have to keep working. What's going on is I understand that each one has to do the job he's got to do. I never said it was the fault of the producer sectors that they couldn't negotiate with the industry. No, no, no, no. I never said that! And I say, Galicia has two producer organizations, and we're trying to help these two producer organizations to feel like they're in the industry and they're able to negotiate if they think so. And if not, every producer can sit alone, and they'll have the Galician board and the council to help them. Mrs. Peace, I'm not really talking about the mussel case, I'm saying that I got a letter from the National Competition Commission referring to the meetings that took place in 2006 and 2008. E says: As far as the scope of your advice is concerned, this Competition Directorate has been aware of certain actions that may be affecting the formation of prices of raw cow milk. In particular, certain information collected in documents to which this Directorate of Competition has had access, summarized in an accompanying note to this letter, concerns that your advisor would have held meetings with the producer sector and the dairy industry, either within the framework of the Bureau of Milk, either in the Committee on the Follow-up of Homologous Contracts, or in other types of meetings, where sensitive and negotiated commercial information could have been exchanged on the price of raw cow milk. Any participation by the Public Administration in negotiations and meetings dealing with direct or indirect pricing or commercial conditions would be contrary to the spirit of compliance with competition rules, and could also lead to confusion among the actors involved in these markets in relation to the legality of such actions. That's why, Mrs. Paz, I say I'll never take the sector where I can't take it. I'll never take the sector where I don't have to. I'll always be in defense of the sector... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u320	Thank you very much, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u321	...of the producer sector.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u322	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u323	The data sing and I don't lie. [[Applause]] Mr. Sánchez, a clarification.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u324	Thank you very much, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u325	Just a second, President, please. I'm not lying, Mr. Sánchez. Review the INE data. I spoke from 2009 to 2013, of a 3.6% increase here in Galicia. You're talking from 2007 to 2013. Please review the data. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u326	Thank you. Da Maria Teresca Peace Franco, from G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the bidding of the recruitment of air vehicles for the forest fire fighting device
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u327	You have the word, to formulate your interpellation, Teressa Paz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u328	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Group, for this warm welcome this cold afternoon in this Chamber... [[Applause]] We are on June 10, 2015, in a period that, according to Galician Forest Fire Prevention Act, is established as a high-risk period of forest fires, at the highest risk season, and the fundamental device planning tool against forest fire fighting in our country, which is the Forest Fire Defense Plan, the Pladiga, is not approved. I suppose it will be adopted by the Board of Trustees tomorrow, Counsellor, because, in fact, I believe there are already drafts in circulation. In any case, what is found is that on June 10, when the device should already be in operation, what we have is that the only – it seems – decision that was adopted by the Galician Board, in relation to the forest fire fighting device, is to continue to fatten the company's results account that rents us – among other things – the air media, the Inaer company. Counsellor, we, of course, find it rather picturesque that when there is still no planning, when you are in the middle of the season in a situation of media precariousness, the only thing that is being done is the hiring of the air media. In short, on 25 March 2015 the adjudication – which, by the way, was not published in the DOG until 8 June – of the hiring of helicopters with the company, with UTE, Inaer-Natutechnia for a value of almost 4 million euros. Also in March, clauses for the recruitment of 8 aircraft were published – on the Galician Board’s recruitment platform – 3 of cargo on land for 92 days and 2 of cargo on land for 61 days, and an air surveillance and coordination aircraft for 22 days for the 2015, 2016 and 2017 campaigns. Interestingly, this recruitment procedure was quite turbulent, because on 14 April it was announced on the same recruitment platform that the tables planned to be held in this recruitment procedure were suspended without die. The reason for the annulment of these tables was that an appeal had been lodged before the Central Administrative Court, which was dependent on the Ministry of Finance, against the requirements of particular administrative clauses and technical prescriptions by the Spanish Association of Air Companies of Helicopters and Air Works. Subsequently, there is a document, also on the recruitment platform, of May 20, so that 8 aircraft intended for forest fire prevention and defence continue to be contracted by the Central Administrative Court during the years 2015, 2016 and 2017 because, in fact, by welcoming this appeal, the Central Administrative Court ordered the closure of this procedure and resumed it at the time prior to publication. And they argue with the Legal Services of the Government of the United States that, if the process was to be resumed, it could not be bided until mid-August. Therefore, what is recommended, the decision that is recommended to adopt, is that an extension of the contract previously existing during the years 2013, 2014 and 2015 with the Inaer company be made so that during the 2015 campaign we could count on those 5 cargo planes on land for three months, and 2 for two months, and the surveillance one. Counsellor, of course our concern about this matter is for a number of reasons. First, because of the budgets of the Union, and specifically the resources that the Union devotes each year to the fight and prevention of forest fires, a genuine indentation, an ingenious amount of resources – more than 9 million euros a year – they end up in one way or another in the pockets of Inaer and Natutechnia to meet a very small part – I say not relevant, but with a very small part – of the forest fire fighting device. Our concern is also because today we continue without knowing what the planning – or at least we don't know officially – of the board regarding the extinction of forest fires. Our concern is also because we're on the 10th and the Greek Town Councils still don't know what the instruments they're going to count on this year are going to be. But we know one thing – because of course, this of the new technologies has these things – and as Mr. Balsairo always came here to accuse the BNG councils of not wanting extinction brigades, because in the BNG we believe extinction has to be something of the Board this year, to extort further the councils, it seems that there will only be a mode of contract. So there's only going to be the possibility that the municipalities that want to do prevention, that they want staff to be subsidized to move their motorcycle or to move their mechanical means to make scraps, there's no more remedy than swallowing, and in the same lot, assuming the extinction brigade, which, as it puts the agreement itself, preferably when called by the Junta, instead of making prevention, will have to put an end to fires. And we're also worried, Counselor, because you are – I don't know whether you personally handle this issue of forest fires or if you fully delegate yourself to Mr. Secretary General of Montes – genuine irresponsible in planning and using resources. Counsellor, you know that in Galicia there are three bases with heliported brigades. Three bases on which all the Greeks and the Greeks are paid to some professionals who integrate these heli-transported brigades, who are employees of the Galician Union, fixed-discontinuous, and who are destined for the Moroccan base in Monforte, Vilamior in Verín and Campino in Pontevedra. And you know that today these three bases are without a helicopter. We have heliport bases, people who specialize in being brigadiers of a heliported brigade, and they don't have a helicopter. And the only helicopter that is now at the disposal of the device, which was in Monforte, is at the base of Toen. And to keep fattening Natutechnia and Inaer we hired her staff from that base. And you know what's going on right now, Counselor? I hope it's controlled and it wasn't serious, but a couple of hours ago it was setting up a big fire in Lousam. And where did he have to come from the helicopter to act in the Lusame fire? From Toen, because the rest of the bases of Galician Union...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u329	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u330	...including those that are much closer, they don't have a helicopter. That's right, we've got the brigade there, and we're paying some gentlemen who are specialists and who want to work for being on the helicopter base. That's why, Counselor, we have a great interest in knowing three things about this interpellation. First. Why do you always make the blindfold for the hiring of air vehicles, so that you have to systematically extend the contracts to give them always, always, always, to Inaer? Because it doesn't give me time now, I'll be able to do it later, but there are paragraphs in the report of the Board of Auditors on the practices of recruitment of the media at the Rural Media Council, which are very significant and which you should read, because it talks about practices that go against...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u331	Thank you very much, Mrs. Paz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u332	...you're so concerned about the rules of competition...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u333	Thank you very much, Mrs. Paz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u334	...talk directly...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u335	Thank you, Mrs. Paz. [[Applause]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] No, in the previous plea it was not controlled. The councilor of the Middle Rural and Sea, Mrs. Rosa Quintana, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u336	Mrs. Peace, with regard to the fire in Lousame, it's not a big fire and it's stabilized. I say it for your peace of mind. First of all, Mrs. Peace, I would like to thank you for the constant and repeated interest that both you and your party show regularly everything you have to do with forest fires. You tell me it's a fundamental question for you to be interested, from your ranks, in this first order problem for the whole of the Greeks. And I understand that it is a priority for them to be concerned about those matters of operation and organization that have clearly failed in the past and to check that, as long as we heal them, they continue on the path of good functioning. You'll be interested in hiring several air vehicles for this year's campaign and for the next two years. It expresses its concern that this government has taken into account the recommendations of the Board of Auditors in drawing up the last sentences and clauses of the last process in force. I'll tell you first of all that I'd advise you to address, in all your administrative actions, always try to act with greater transparency and with respect to the law; I don't understand it in any other way. Repeat, transparency and respect. Especially because we're talking about public money, your money, my money and everyone's money and every one of the Greeks. That would make me responsible for extreme efficiency and efficiency in management and in the search for pulsitude. In spite of this, when specialized bodies and entities – which, of course, deserve the utmost respect and credibility – perform assessments or observations that contribute to improving public management, logically we take note of them, making them our own and incorporating them to the extent their viability. In this sense, on your question of whether we have taken into account the considerations made by this body on the recruitment corresponding to the years 2010 and 2011, I will first clarify these considerations so that the citizenry is clear that we are speaking exactly and that no one is called to be mistaken. On the one hand, the Board of Auditors warned one of its reports on the need to specify the exact assessment procedures of some of the adjudication criteria. In particular, improvements in the technical characteristics of aircraft and service. Not because they didn't exist, but because they were determined at the recruitment table through technical reports, and I don't think I should remind you, how good it would work, who's in the recruitment desks are staff officers apart from the political thing. With regard to the assessment of pilots' experience, despite the content and coverage of insurance, the report nuanced that it was about aptitude criteria to compete for tenders rather than to adjudicate contracts. Well, these two assumptions, which are not invalidating, were the only two observations made by the Council on this contract. Thus, in the recruitment for the provision of services from 2013 to 2015, these two aspects were already incorporated. In this way, mathematical formulae and scales were established that prevent any subjective valuation, both on the part of the economic offer and on the criteria of improvement. As far as the pilots' experience is concerned, it was included within the determining circumstances of the technical capacity. Finally, both in the last contract dealt with with this object and in what you refer to in the interpellation, fully objective criteria are used that do not leave a margin of at least 0.1 % of subjectivity, and only the economic offer and the free flight hours offer are valued. Already entering into the question of the specific needs of the fire fighting service that are intended to cover through this invitation to tender, and on which you also ask me, I remind you that – as I should know – the average number of fires per year in Galicia is about 4,000. This is a matter why the Administration needs to complete an airborne device that can quickly go to the fires and participate in its extinction. Everyone is aware of the complex orography of Galicia and the different types of fires that occur. This requires a network of air media of different types, each oriented to a type of mission on each type of fire. To develop these functions, Together uses several air media, among which the planes you ask me to find. I'll explain. These planes are intended for surveillance and, in particular, for extinction. The cargo plane on earth is a medium which, due to its immediateness and speed, is very useful for the extinction of fires due to the great speed in its displacements. We're talking about means that require specialized and authorized personnel to carry out piloting, maintenance, repairing, etc., which require the recruitment of a fully equipped and manned aircraft chartering service to extinguish, monitor, coordinate, assess and measure. In view of these needs, I take advantage to answer the question of whether we have taken into account historical data when setting the terms of the contract. I'll tell you, in this case, the doubt almost offends. You, who lived closely what the fires mean in Galicia, understand that as I should have analyzed each data millimeterically. It is known that the fires in Galicia are characterized by a great variability in what has to do with the burnt surface, the number of fires and therefore the flight hours necessary for the various air media. This led, firstly – and finished – to establish multi-year contracts, with the aim of modulating aircraft flight activity. The burnt areas, taken as an average of three-year period blocks, do not present great inter-annual variability, and since they show the above-mentioned downward trend, provide information valid for calculating the total hours of the contract, as well as the remaining variables that make up the requirements of technical prescriptions and administrative clauses. I mean, we calculated the average hours that may be necessary and we made their consumption more flexible than a year. Mrs. Peace, we can say proud that we manage and plan. Experiments with gaseousity, on such a delicate subject as fires, are left, fortunately, very behind. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u337	Thank you very much, Counselor. Groups that want to intervene. Joint Group. Mrs. Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u338	Counsellor, I believe that for what I have now heard, if I have not misunderstood, some of the shortcomings that the audit report of the Board of Auditors had already been resolved this year. In particular, the criteria that were included in the adjudication criteria, and which were not directly related to the object of the contract, I understood that this was solved. But there are many other criticisms of the Board of Auditors that raise serious doubts about the process and the success of the process. Among them, perhaps I am most worried about myself is what the Board of Auditors says about the low technical score of the adjudicate companies. I think it's a serious and serious problem, I don't know how they're going to solve it. Or the valuation of criteria not set in clauses, which leads to the fact that adjudicate companies may not be the ones they should. Or even the extension of contracts with companies that have not reached the minimum score; the indetermination in the assessment of demands collected in the adjudication nail; arbitrariness in the evaluation; abuse of negotiated procedure; violation of the principles of equality and transparency... All this collects the report of the Board of Auditors, so I think it is a pity that it was not more transparent, in the 2015 process, on all these aspects that the Board of Auditors collected. Most of all, what I don't understand is that we choose companies that don't give a minimum of technical quality. I find it alarming, especially because it is the technical conditions for the service, the training of professionals and the number of professionals who are attending, who can really give a positive result in the fight against fires. I had here what is the evaluation of the Union, what is the importance it gives to the Union, to the security of the lives of people who work in the fight against fires, or to biodiversity, or to people who live near the fires. I guess a lot. It was a rhetorical question, but based on those criteria of technicians so low. Irregularities, far from being corrected, are being introduced into the system. In the 2015 extinction campaign, several fires have already occurred in which air-extinguishing means have to act, and these media play a key role, as they contribute to coping with them quickly and effectively. Air activities related to the extinction of fires, from the transfer of ground personnel to the launch of water, require highly specialized crews; their formation is therefore essential. Their practices outside that period in which they are hired are also fundamental. So this follow-up of the training that companies give to the workers so that they can respond to the fires in an area – as you said – with a complicated orography and where often the collection of water is not easy. The most dangerous maneuvers are carried out at the time of the discharge of water over the fire and in the immediate seconds before and after that discharge. The fight against fires requires, as I said, trained and qualified professionals who are ready to act on any emergency, but it must be remembered that prevention is essential to preserve our natural heritage. Whenever we talk about this subject, I continue to insist on prevention, I think prevention is fundamental. To me, which I like to make hiking and walking up the mountain, when I look at the mountain, I say: it has to burn because it has everything to burn. It is full of dry wood, of wood, which is a great potential for the days of heat... And, of course, as there are debris, there are crystals, and if you use the mountain to throw out the garbage... Many times even – we said the other day about the medium-speed train we have here – the Adif himself, in the works of the train, uses the mountain to put the remains of the works there, so you end up turning the mountain into a genuine accumulation of garbage that, in addition, favors – as I said – forest fires. In the 2015 Pladiga plan, and in spite of all that we're talking about, human media remains at 5,767 people, as well as that system of several different companies, different orders, and that people we have in this model. And that in 2013 and 2014 firefighter strikes should be enough to take note and think not only of the fire, but also of prevention and security. And maybe what we need is not a nine-month system, but a year-round system, where in the months they're not fighting fires they're preparing the mountain to minimize those fires. Because there's something that has no explanation beyond that political decisions are not right. I always say that we need a great national agreement between all the forces on this issue, which cannot be used biased. So, to me, what concerns me is not to reach that agreement and put our mountain and our land at the limit. It seems fundamental to me because Galicia is no different from the rest of the world. When they say, it's the incendiaries' fault. Yes, but what's going on, everyone lives in Galicia? I don't know! Or did we give them the cherries here? I suppose the number of arsonists, of arsonists, will be distributed more or less between the population. I don't think there's any more arsonists in Galicia than in Asturias or Cantabria. Something will have to see the policies that follow from the Union itself in the fight against fires. So I think we should check them out. And I'm going back to the law of agrarian structure. It's a shame we don't sit down and impose on most laws that should have all the consensus. I think it's a big failure of the People's Party that we're talking today about the problem of fires in Galicia this way and this way. As I think it's a shame, but I'm sure the People's Party will vote against the motion brought by the BNG, who has introduced it, on this subject. I think it's amazing, but I know it's gonna be like that. So, I know you're not going to benefit the Greeks and the Greeks or our mountains. Together, the Union is still risking its own forest firefighters. They don't recognize their professional category, which they have problems with. Even when it comes to the recognition of professional diseases, or professional risks, it is a lack of support, precisely, for those people who play their lives in a very precarious situation. And it's not about going to kill either, but the truth is you have to recognize the advice that the situation is precarious. Last year we experienced authentically alarming situations of how people are being commanded to fight against the fire. Yes, Counselor, yes. If not, check the sessions. We've talked about this more than once. And also the duration of the working days of the fire fighting personnel. Often, it is true that the emergency for the population requires services to continue hours and hours and hours, but it is also true that, in a country with a high rate of fires, it should be taken into account, for example, the expansion of the templates or the stability of the templates that fight the fire. In addition, the risks increase as service delivery time is extended. How many more hours have it taken, more tired, more failures and more possibilities for a serious accident. It's essential to have a firefighting service with technical and personal means, because we have to save lives. And when I talk about lives, I talk about the lives of people who fight against fires and the lives of people who can be surrounded, well because they live nearby...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u339	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u340	...where a fire is produced – it's over – or because they're having lunch in the mountain, which has also happened. But also the life that shelters the mountain, that is, the biodiversity of our mountains. Also – and I'm done with time – we have to evaluate very seriously what the consequences of the fires are, which comes after the fires, because here in Galicia we already have experiences of what it means to drag the ashes and land by the subsequent rains and the drama that brings to the biodiversity of our country. That's why I think it's time to stop being passive, stop being overpowered, sit down and try, on the part of the People's Party, to reach a great deal of agreement on the rural environment, on our mountains, on our agriculture. I think it would be the greatest triumph the People's Party would have in this legislation, but I also know it won't be able to take those steps. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u341	Thank you very much, Mrs. Martínez. Parliamentary Group of the Left Galician Alternative. You have the word of Mr. Antón Sánchez García.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u342	We believe that certain services are not easy to explain the privatization of their management. For example, we saw how the People's Party privatized 49% of AENA, a service in which it is impossible to compete for its characteristics, and all it does is to change a public monopoly to a private, or from public control to private, but it ends up being a monopoly of services. That's why we only understand these services privatizations from the point of view that someone's doing business at the expense of public money. The recruitment of helicopters and brigades from the counter-fire service of the Galician Union is a clear example. There's a political decision to privatize a service, it seems because it's more efficient or cheaper than the direct, public management service. In the same reasoning they show that they are unable to efficiently manage a service the leaders of the People's Party, and then they decide to privatize. There are companies – very few – that cover all those contracts, created by whom they were responsible at their time of public administrations who already knew where the shots would go. Some gentlemen who have no idea of helicopters set up companies to provide services solely to the Public Service. But that, yes, there is so much competition, so many companies that can provide an efficient service, that in 2012 the Galician Union acts as a direct management order to Inaer. There's no public contest, you say, because it was too early, and if you hit Inaer's finger on a millionaire contract. In 2013 there are public tenders and 2 companies are presented, of which no one met the requirements of the tender. The contest has been declared deserted and it's remedied with Inaer's finger. If we're going to see who Inaer works for, because he works for the Administration of State and Unity of Galicia. There's one case that caught me a lot of attention, which is Mr. Cañete's, which assists him in the operation of an Air Force aircraft to Inaer. Three planes are direct management, and they assist in one to Inaer's operation. For a plane that cost the public warehousing 26 million euros, an annual contract of 2 million is given to this company. And the company itself has to hire the Ministry of Pilot Defense for that plane. That's the end of the circle! The Air Army, in 2013, recovered services that were outsourced earlier. And the first year he recovered outsourced services saved 10 million euros. Obviously! Because these companies, if they go, it's not to lose money. And once again I say it, once these companies consolidate their situation, they have a dominant position, they collect what they want and demand the conditions they want, because they have the position of total monopoly. So it's only explained through that there's business, and there's people doing business on our own. In addition, the accounts report indicates the specific nature of the procedure. But there's a trial that's also investigating, Santiago's Judge #3, and in that contest the company in 2013 made a drop of 8,000 euros, a 0.06 % discount; a big discount! According to the Board of Auditors, of course, when the contest was deserted, what had to be done was to convene another contest, as it could not be otherwise. Therefore, the privatization of this service has no logic, not even economic. Not saving, spending more, it is shown with data. It's not going to a private competition market. There is no competition, this company covers virtually all contracts. So it has no advantage, just the advantage these companies have in hiring. For the rest of the fire policy – we have said it and I would not like to repeat it too much – we believe that we are assuming counterfire policy in this country, when more than 100 million euros are being spent on extinction, public budgets, I don't think it should be very presentable. And assuming that it's spending more and more on extinction, when the goal posed by the Galician Forest Plan was to progressively reduce extinction and progress in prevention... but prevention is not just to go to the mountains. Prevention is to have a lot ordered, with certain species, etc. That's prevention. So we are going against what was marked by the Galician Forest Plan of 1992. We're on our way to spending more and more on fire extinguishing, giving the money to private companies. Against all logic, bet on externalization and greater device complexity, when according to efficiency data it is not justified. Public management is efficient, the greatest complexity of the operation does not guarantee greater efficiency, on the contrary. So we think you're walking against what should be, and you're wasting public resources in policies that aren't productive. You're not walking towards productive investments, but in recent years, not to increase the budget for the extinction of fires, there's no turning point on this issue. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u343	Thank you very much. Socialist Parliamentary Group. You have the word of Mr. Pablo García.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u344	Thank you, President. We assume that for the next plenary session you will come here to present the Pladiga, as I told you last year. Every time it takes to present the Pladiga, and therefore we will be talking about the counter-fire policy, of the 4 out of every 10 euros you spend on extinction, of the 4 out of every 10 euros you spend your macro-council to put out the fire, of the insatiability of the system and of all that, because I suppose you will repeat the model and the Pladiga will only be a mere repetition of the Pladiga of previous years. But this interpellation focuses on the concrete aspect of this theme, and I'm a little undisturbed. Nobody read The World? It's not a socialist newspaper. Nobody read the Udef report? I thought you'd be right in on that subject. You gave us here a series of explanations, and I thought, when I saw the interrogation, that was the result of the information coming out of the newspaper. Because, indeed, today we are talking about a logical consequence of the model, of the politics that you practice, of your philosophy. By the way, predictable and not innocent. At least I don't believe in that innocence. I don't even think this is a consequence of, I think this is the real cause, I think this is the real reason where the source of the problem lies. You have this model because you make – not the bottom – fire, forest fires, with your model, a tremendous business. And you're guilty, therefore. I don't know if you're an accomplice to the business. It seems that Valencian politicians, besides those who were guilty, were accomplices. The former representative of the Government of Valencia, besides guilty, was an accomplice. I don't know if you're accomplices, I don't think so, but you're guilty, because your model is designed, designed and programmed for that. And indeed I do not say it, do not say it to the opposition groups, we have denounced it here and say it also to the Board of Auditors, who clearly questions his model of recruitment. Competitions that remain desert in a planned manner in negotiated procedures where conditions are clearly changed. Services that are provided by the company even months in advance to be assisted. In those who sell the helicopter for 3 million and in a few days rent the same helicopter for 9 million. But, indeed, we are not left in the farrago or in the chapuza or in the difficulty of the contracts, which are likely to exist. The point is, we're talking about a business volume so important that its privatization leads to the establishment of a whole infrastructure of economic interests from which the system favors us all to be hostage year after year. All that reasoning, which you suppose you'll explain, why then you get to that negotiation with Inaer, why you hire someone you hire because you have no other person to hire. And I repeat, I don't know if I only read El Mundo. Udef clearly explains these days in that report... The police don't sound like the other one says, "the police aren't stupid." Because these companies that are dedicated to these needs, both here in Galicia and in the rest of the state, companies all created under the grace of their model, which extend to forest fires, civil protection, maritime rescue, etc. By the way, we're talking about Natutechnia and Inaer, but there's a similar scheme in almost all the communities in which you rule, always with an ex-counsel or ex-responsible or former senior management position. In this case, this is Mr Del Alamo, former Environmental Adviser. For these companies seem to be – I repeat, it is collected by a report from Udef – that were kept every time in Albacete, in Manzanares, in different places of the Spanish geography, to hunt. Here are repeated images and visualizations, because this government gives a lot of itself in that sense, the ecosystem in which it moves, to remind again here of Berlanga, La Scopeta Nacional, and that ordinary businessman who had to speak to the minister at all costs to see what was his. [[Laughter]] For these companies operating – I repeat – in these different parts of the state, it seems that they were repeatedly left to hunt, and as the other says, in passing that they were throwing away...! By the way, there's a security officer who says they're throwing daybreaks and throwing nightfalls as well. But well, I already know how hunters are, too, who are often quite ostentatious, quite exaggerated, and I'm sure it was less. But between partridge and partridge, or between rabbit and rabbit, they prepared the nails, calculated the offerings that were to be made in the different autonomous communities, distributed the presentations; i.e., they decided: you present yourself in this community, you don't present yourself... No, don't laugh, it's in Udef's report. [[Laughter]] He's, he's... they calculated the offerings, that is, when he had to go upstairs or under... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u345	Mr. Losada, please, you're talking to your partner. If you want to talk to Mrs. Prado, or Mrs. Prado wants to talk to you, they'll talk to you, but now you're talking to Mr. Pablo García, who still has the floor. [[Mr. Losada Álvarez pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Please continue.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u346	I felt helpless. I repeat, presentations were shared; i.e., they were said where each of the companies had to be presented, the adjudications were distributed, they were distributed, Counsellor, the adjudications and the denials were shared. [[Murmurs.]] I mean, it was told the company in Castela-León that it was also supposed to be presented in Galicia, or another kind of community, knowing that, in fact, it wasn't going to win the offer because each company had distributed the national territory. Moreover, they were developing strategies to see that, as friends, we could extend the system to our neighbour Portugal. I thought this was the theme today, that's the theme today, because there's the Galician company. The Greek company went to those hunts. The company that's being helped was in those hunts. The company Natutecnia Inaer participated in this, he was also present in certain territories where he knows they won't give it to him because they give it to Alvia or the other. And that was organized in the hunts that, every certain months, were done. This is the subject, beyond the Board of Auditors... and we're not going to rip our clothes off with the Council and Accounts, which is not exactly... I'm not going to leave it, I'm not going there. Beyond the rags after that. The real problem, Counselor – I figured you'd go there – is that when this comes out, and this comes out, and – I repeat – it's Udef who says it, at least if you suspect, you'd have something to say about this. Because to the company which – I repeat – year after year, contract after contract, repeatedly contracts in Galicia, also participated, at least, in those hunts. And I repeat, one speaks clearly, moreover, of things that later, when one reads the report of the Board of Auditors, at least – and I am not ill thought – says, because it can be, because it talks about sharing where we are going to present ourselves, sharing as we are going to present ourselves, sharing who goes down and who goes up, sharing – I repeat – the adjudications and denials in different autonomous communities. And Galicia was in that too. And, Counselor, and finished, don't get me wrong, I don't think you're an accomplice, and unless you're an active accomplice; but I think, Counselor, that you're guilty because you're holding the model that gives you this.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u347	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u348	You enable and provide, in a way, with that model, well because you don't change it well because it's what you trust, that these practices exist. And these practices exist, and I think the model at the bottom is programmed for that. I don't think you're an accomplice; and if you believe it – we're going to meet you – I'd say so too. I don't think so. But at least I think that, since there are many things that when you read in the newspapers, in reports that come out, you can make you think that this is happening here too, and that sounds a lot, or you might have a lot of parallelisms, to which the company that has an impressive turnover, year after year, receives large amounts of public resources, at least I think it deserves an explanation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u349	Thank you very much, Mr. García. People's Group. Mr. Balsairo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u350	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen. Counsellor. Mrs. Martínez. I was going to answer Mrs. Martínez and I can't answer her because she's already abandoned the... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Oh, well, if you're sorry, I apologize. I'm going to try to answer the opposition, except Mr. García, because the truth is he has prepared this intervention so well that he has left me speechless. And then, as you will understand, it's such a brilliant intervention that, if I may, if I am against it, I spoil your intervention, and I would not want to spoil that brilliant intervention that you have in Parliament's gallery, highly prepared. You also give her a lot of arguments and a lot of figures...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u351	Mr. Fajardo, you have no word.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u352	...and I don't deserve to ruin it. Therefore, with all due respect, you will understand that you have already responded to your intervention because I didn't want to spoil it. And, Mrs Peace, I hope – and I believe so – that you have taken good note of what the Counsellor has really explained to you in the gallery of this Parliament. What the Board of Auditors did to meet the recommendations of the Board of Auditors. Here the Counsellor explained to you that they were the reasons why the changes were justified. And I say, what a difference with other times! You do an interrogation and here the Counsellor just put you in the gallery of Parliament light and tachygraphs to which you were asking. And I suppose you'll come up here and say you haven't got any explanations, because it's the usual thing. But the Counsellor made it clear here, firstly, that all the administrative actions of the Board have always developed with greater transparency and respect for the law, as it could not be otherwise. Secondly, it made it clear to the Counsellor in the Parliamentary Chamber that the Board itself took note and incorporated the recommendations of the Board of Auditors, and even described on a case-by-case basis. Thirdly, she told you – as it is obvious – that we must also remember that the recruitment boards are composed of staff officials, not political personnel. But in addition, to this point – and so said the Counsellor – in view of the recommendation made by the Board of Auditors, precise scale mathematical formulas have been established in the nail that prevents any subjective-type valuation in this whole recruitment process, both in the part of the economic offer and in the improvement criteria that are evaluated. What makes no sense, Mrs. Paz – you will understand – is that you are interested in two years' delay on this matter, without worrying, at least – not worrying – whether these observations were already incorporated. But, Counsellor, you do not let yourself be deceived – I know that you are not fooled – because the Nationalist Block of Wales, the Socialist Party and AGE – and the Joint Group cannot answer you that you are not, and you have apologized – question the process of hiring helicopters that are part of the operation against fires. What happens to the Galician Nationalist Block and the opposition forces is that they don't believe Galicia should have these air media. Nationalists question everything, everything, the entire operation of the Fire Prevention and Extinction Service, and they've been doing it every time they have a chance. They don't believe in our model. They don't believe in the People's Party model on fires. Just like us, we don't believe in the model that the Socialist Party had and that it had the Nationalist Block in Galicia. Mrs Peace spoke of the forest brigades. Nationalists would abolish forest brigades, although they have helped to improve the effectiveness of fires, despite their carrying out fundamental tasks in the field of prevention and deforestation, and despite the demands of mayors of all political colors: the Socialist Party, the People's Party and the Galician Nationalist Block. It's true that the Galician Nationalist Block this year will sue less than they demanded last year, quite less. Specifically, in the province of Lugo, 70%, because they lost 70% of the mayors they had in the province of Lugo, so they're going to demand less. [[Murmurs.]] They would also suppress the army's support. They would also suppress it, because, as it is Spanish, it bothers them. And we'd lose 25 ground patrols and the mobile team in the middle of a high-risk campaign. They also suppressed – they said – hiring cargo planes on the ground, with thousands of liters of capacity and essentials in the control of the most dangerous fires. And they say they have to be public. All right, that sounds good. What they don't tell you is that – I don't know if they're conscious, I suppose – they're only used for a few months, and a few months. That's why we went as we went, Counselor; that's why we went as we were, gentlemen of the People's Group and lords of the opposition. And he doesn't say so, you've already demonstrated it in 2006 when the BNG had the responsibility to manage all this operation. And when Mrs. Paz, who is asking you today, applauded the management of the fires that made the Bipartite Union. What happened? Because nothing happened, they've already applied the model of the Socialist Party, they've already applied the model of the Galician Nationalist Block. And with that model Galicia burned from extreme to extreme. And with that model, the management of the Socialist Party and the Galician Nationalist Block was a failure. And with that model it was a political failure and it was improvised; but, above all, Counsellor and Lords, it was uncontrolled, by which the People's Party does not want that model, so it's very difficult to match. Counsellor and lords, no one is free to burn his mountains, no one, and climate conditions are a key factor. [[Murmurs.]] But when the Nationalist Bloc ruled with the Socialist Party we suffered the worst wave of fires in our history, for something will be: 11,973 forest fires – never so many –, 95,947 hectares burned – never so many –. That's the legacy they left us. That's the model you had, and that's the model you don't want the majority group of this House, the People's Party, or the Government of Galicia. That's the model we don't want. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] From the Popular Group, I believe that we believe that everything can be improved, and in addition, if it can be improved in this field, it must be improved. And if the helicopter recruitment system supports improvements, they will apply to it. Now, these are procedures with all guarantees, supervised by the Legal Counsel, the lawyers and the Intervention Service. They're the best technical offers and the best economic offers when several compete. What you can't ask for here is that we apply your model. You don't ask because we're not going to apply it. The model of you, we know everyone we're here, and everyone who's out here, who's probably suffered more than the ones we're here. The model of you in this field is a failed model, what do you want to teach us? What you can't do here, Mrs. Peace, is pretend to be interested in improving this service and supporting amendments from other political forces that asked for a cut in fire budgets; but not a small cut, a cut of nothing more and nothing less than 21 million euros. Amendments that supported all political groups and amendments submitted by the Socialist Party. You amend the ones I've got here. You amend what you have... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u353	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u354	Yes, I'm done, Madam President. No, you're being challenged, because you've prepared so well, so well, the intervention that I don't want to spoil it. I've already told you, you're answerable. You are capable of a lot of things in this Parliament, and you have a certain merit in this Parliament. You're able to come up here for ten minutes, finish talking and ask any Member of Parliament you've talked about and nobody knows what you've been talking about. With which, you have a merit. You prepare interventions far above the capacity of the rest of the Members. But you have to be careful, because as long as you prepare them, as long as you prepare your interventions, you run a risk, that your interventions understand you nothing else, the rest doesn't know. [[Applause]] Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u355	Replica roll. [[Pause.]] You have the floor to Mrs. Paz Franco, of the Galego Nationalist Block.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u356	Mr. Balsairo, I'd like you to explain something to me. You said here that this Government's contest has every guarantee. I would like you to explain to me, if you have all the guarantees, why did the Central Administrative Court, under the Ministry of Finance, decide to cancel the invitation to tender by the Association of Aeronautical Companies? Didn't he have all the guarantees? Or are you telling me that Mr. Montoro put gentlemen there who don't know anything about recruitment procedures? I don't know. I'm a little confused. I know we haven't prepared things and we've come here confused. Look, in relation to the device, indeed, we did not share the People's Party model, which is to go tearing apart and dismantle slowly a device that had a single command and that worked under that single command. What we don't question is the professionals, Mr. Balsairo, who you always try to confuse here. And by the way, you said we wouldn't even have the Spanish Army. Man, I don't know, but for free I don't think we're out! He comes because we pay him, not because he comes here to protect us from a threat. He comes because we paid him through an agreement, and quite well, by the way. But I'm going back to the device thing for this year. Counsellor, I see you as always, of course, make a partial reading of the reports. Look, here's what's going on here, there's been a competition for air media procurement during the years 2008 and 2009, and you're the one who did it was to extend this competition, and it didn't extend it to them in 2010, but it was also extended to 2011 and 2012. And you know what the Board of Auditors says about that?: "The contract signed on April 4, 2008 was the subject of two extensions in favour of Inaer. However, the provision of services by this company, corresponding to batches 1 and 2, continued even during the year 2012 without the mandatory contractual coverage". I mean, you use extensions in a fraudulent way to continue benefiting, it's not going to happen that one day you're presenting yourself with a better offer than Inaer and you can't be Inaer what's still carrying the great airborne pastel from the board of Galicia. And he says what was done was paid through two certifications working on the file corresponding to flight hours in 2012. It also says: As facts after the review period, it must be pointed out that the board has exceeded the call for a new procedure for the recruitment of this service until 2012. And it remained in such a way that it had, again, to extend, without competition, to 2013 and 2014. So we're in that a service that was contracted for 2008 and 2009, ended up extending for 2010 and 2011; in practice, without contractual coverage, for 2012, and how much was left, for 2013 and for 2014. And now we extend it to 2015. Well, I really swear to them that from the procedure of administrative recruitment and from the law of state contracts I know nothing, but smell, smell. Smell, smell this. I don't know if you've seen me much or little, because you haven't investigated enough yet, with the plot that Mr. Garcia talked about here. But smell the dog, smell the dog, don't you? The last time this contest went out, as it should be...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u357	It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u358	...was the year 2008 and 2009. We're in 2015 and we're going to extend it again, with a contract that came out of 2008 and 2009 and that the Board of Auditors is making a lot of repairs, not just those I just read. I could continue to read, because the report on the recruitment of air vehicles from the Rural Council has four sheets, and it does not refer only to the two points of reference that the Counsellor spoke about. It also speaks of the indetermination of the criteria for the valuation of improvements, which it lends itself to the value of how you like it. The Board of Auditors says that I – I insist – know nothing about recruitment, absolutely nothing! I only know what the Board of Auditors says, and it smells a little weird that, once again, in 2015, we're taking out a contest, that we have to cancel this contest, and that we're re-extensioning with Inaer a contract that's running ahead, in a way that's very much questioned by...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u359	Thank you very much, Mrs. Paz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u360	...constellation of accounts, for a long time. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u361	You have the floor to close the debate, Mrs. Rosa Quintana.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u362	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Garcia, I won't even consider the things you said here; neither guilty nor complicit nor anything at all. I'm not. And I guess you didn't either, because these companies were also hired in the years 2006, 2007, 2008, 2009. So neither complicit nor guilty nor anything at all. Mrs. Peace, I don't understand much about hiring or managing or anything, it's a saying. You're going to work just like me in our normal life, and we all had to study the State Contracts Act to introduce ourselves to the opposition, I suppose. We all had to pass some exams, and then we know about recruitment and we know about management. We won't be great experts, but look, I just don't want to go in there. I, in principle, believe in the right to make all the officials. I know, I understand, how difficult it is for you to draw up an administrative clause for the hiring of air carriers, that there are very different forms of operation and very different kinds of operation. There are helicopters, there are planes, there are cargo planes on the ground, there are light planes... I don't know all the airsports. But what if I were to ask you is that, when you do an interpellation, you pick things up strictly. And, I say, I trust both the officials who were working in the Bipartite Union, and the officials who are working in the Union now that they are ruling the People's Party. And the report of the Board of Auditors, although it was made in the years 2010 and 20111, refers to the recruitment of air media to prevent and extinguish fires since 2007. And what can't be done is a biased reading of the Board's report. Precisely, where more warnings are made by the Board of Auditors is in the hiring of the 14 helicopters that were made in the years 2008 and 2009. And with this I'm not saying that there was a plot or that no one has any interests with any company or anything at all. All I'm saying is that we have to read the report of the Board of Auditors, look at the improvements that we are being asked to introduce into the prayers and do so. I don't ask for anything more than that. Because look, Mrs. Martínez -- who called to say she was sorry because she had to leave -- technical problems in hiring a given company. For these technical problems are collected in the report by the Board of Auditors on the recruitment of 14 helicopters for the prevention and extinction of forest fires during the years 2008 and 2009. It says that 500 hours of fire-extinguishing experience was requested for pilots, and that it was assisted by a company where pilots only believed in 300 hours of experience. But I guess it would be, I don't know, hurry by the official who was valuing adjudication, I don't think no politician would want to tell an official how he has to do the valuations. What I say – and I repeat – is that air media was used in the times of the Bipartite; air media is used in this Autonomous Community governed by the People's Party; air media is used in all autonomous communities; air media is used in the State; and that is not privatizing a service. And what I guarantee is the most about the State Contracts Act because there is no official or politician who wants to dominate one company over the other. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u363	We continue with the development of the agenda, with point 8, which is that of questions to the Government. As announced, we begin with Mr Martínez-Sierra's question of the People's Parliamentary Group in Galicia. Question by José Manuel Balsairo Orol and seven other Members of the G.P. People in Galicia, on the situation in which the Instituto Tecnologico para la Control do Medio Marine for the application of the new chemical method established by the European Union as a reference procedure for the control of lipophilic toxins at sea
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u364	Mr. Martínez-Sierra has the floor to ask his question.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u365	Thank you, Madam President. The European Union established by Regulation (EC) No 15/2011 as a reference method for the detection of marine lipophilic toxins, the so-called chemical method against bioassay in rats. In this regulation a transitional period was established, until 31 December 2014, in which the two systems of analysis lived together, and from January 2015, the only chemical method acceptable, except for the detection of emerging toxins. This change of method has been very much discussed, from the very first moment, by the sector, scientific authorities and even by many administrations, such as the case of Galicia, which has called for an application for annulment of that regulation before the European Court of Justice, to the Spanish Government. The judgment was dismissed by the court on that appeal on 11 February 2015, despite the multiple allegations submitted. In our Autonomous Community, the body responsible for carrying out these analytical methods is the Institute for Marine Control, Intemar. This public body was established by law in 2004, and constitutes the official instrument of the Autonomous Community of Galicia for the control of the quality of the marine environment and to ensure compliance with the legal provisions in the technical and health matters of the sea products. No one doubts the technical solvency of Intemar in the application of the biological method. But in the light of the new situation laid down by European legislation, is the Intemar prepared to implement, with full assurances for analytical purposes, the new control system? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u366	Thank you very much. The councilor of the Middle Rural and Sea, Mrs. Rosa Quintana, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u367	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Martínez-Sierra, despite his opposition to the substitution of the bioassay method by chemical in the control of lipophilic toxins, as a reference method in the European Union, the Institute for Marine Control developed with complete diligence, responsibility and rigor to the development of the control program through chromatography of liquids with mass spectrophotometry detectors. He's been doing it since 2009. At the same time as he was fighting in numerous forums, and doing top-level management in defense and placing value on the bioassay method against the chemical, he doesn't offer greater security to the consumer, he doesn't detect emerging toxicity and, above all, it's more expensive. In 2009, Intemar, in collaboration with CIMA, began the launch of the LC control program for lipophilic toxins, and in December 2010 acquired a new team and started the setting up of the technique; a process that developed in the first half of 2011 and followed the internal process of validation of the technique and also the analyses in parallel with the bioassay method. In addition, in the first months of 2012 we prepared all the documentation required for the accreditation of the technique by the national accreditation authority. Thus, a few months after Enac's audit, in particular in February 2013, this body granted the Intemar the expansion of accreditation for the use of the chemical method. In this way, Intemar became the first official control center in Spain to have accredited the chemical method of marine biotoxins and began to perform the analyses of lipophilic toxins indistinctly by biotesting and by the new technique, which he acquired and put into operation two new analytical equipment. Since 1 January 2015, by virtue of European legislation and by failing to prosper the resource put in place by Spain, the chemical method is the reference method used for controlling lipophilic toxins, limiting bioassay in mice to detection of emerging toxins. Thus, in 2015, the Intemar carried out more than 1,800 analyses through the chemical method, and since the beginning of the development of the new technique in 2009, to date it has carried out more than 6,500 analyses, being those carried out since February 2013 in the framework of official control. These figures, the steps taken for the adoption of the new technique, and the three Enac audits that passed the Intemar up to today, validate it as a reference center for the application of the chemical method in the control of lipophilic toxins in molluscs and demonstrate that it is strictly prepared. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u368	Thank you very much, Mrs. Quintana. Mr. Martinez-Sierra.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u369	Thank you very much, Counselor, for your answer, for the only objective of this question is to send a message of tranquility to the affected sector, making it clear that Galicia is ready, despite its discrepancy with the new method. The existence of appropriate equipment, techniques and personnel clears any doubt about the reliability of this new analytical system. But once we know the sentence, we'd like to know if the German Government continues to argue that the chemical method has eyves, as they are to be more complex, slow and expensive, without providing a greater benefit to the protection of public health when we compare it with the bioassay at the moment. Do you still think the same thing? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u370	You have the word, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u371	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Martínez, look, we're a serious and responsible government, and although we don't agree with this method, from minute one we've been working with him while we were at the corresponding legal battle. We continue to maintain that this method is the most expensive, slower, less reliable method that causes problems. And these problems have been highlighted now, lately, when in February, the Community biotoxin reference laboratory had to modify the method of applying it to the preservatives. With this, we believe that it supports the thesis that we saw defending. Which is a method that has been applied hastily, without doing enough follow-up throughout the process, since the mussel comes out of the water until it reaches the consumer, through the various transformations that can be subjected to. It also provides less information to the consumer, since the producer sector, too, could, through the Intemar website, follow the evolution of toxins analyses, and now, until the final process, they cannot know the results, which can take 48 hours. We believe that the Intemar, of course, continues to do the best control work that can be done anywhere in the world, so they recognize it everywhere. We understand that this work is being done in the field, for the field sector, which is what we have to work for, and this method is designed from the offices and we don't know what implications it can have in the sector. The simple fact that the Community directive approving this modification of the method continues to recommend the need to continue using the bioassay method to detect emerging toxins means that the chemical method does not give consumers greater security. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u372	Thank you, Counselor. Question from Da María do Carme Adán Villamarín and Da María Teresaca Paz Franco, from G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the reasons for the delay of the Government of Galicia in making public the private contract signed by the Agency of Tourism with the producer of the video clip by Enrique Iglesias for the promotion of tourism of Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u373	You have the word of Mrs. Adam to ask his question.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u374	Yes, thank you, President. Good afternoon. Mr Vice-President, I am going to read out Article 9 of the regulation still in force in this House, which says: "For the best performance of your parliamentary functions, Members" - we understand that also Members - "the knowledge of their respective parliamentary group shall have the power to request from the public authorities the data, reports or documents contained in their possession." "2. Applications shall, in any event, be addressed by the leadership of the Presidency of Parliament. The required administration must provide the requested documentation or express to the President of Parliament" – I suppose also to the President – "in a period not exceeding 30 days, and for his most convenient work to the applicant, the fundamental legal reasons that prevent him." "3. Members also have the right to receive, directly or through their parliamentary group, the information and documentation necessary for the development of their tasks. The House's general services have an obligation to provide necessary documentation for the development of their tasks. The House's general services have an obligation to make it easier for them." "Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo and Maria do Carme Adán Villamarín, Members of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, in the light of the provisions of Article 9 of the Chamber's Rules of Procedure, request the following documentation: Copy of the requirements of the particular administrative clauses and technical prescriptions of the private contract relating to the promotion of tourism of Galicia through Enrique Iglesias' "Night and Day" video clip. Santiago de Compostela, 11 March 2015". It is addressed to the President of Parliament, who tells us that he has dealt with this matter to the Government. It's been exactly three months. But it is also true that the following agreement was adopted unanimously in Commission 6 of 1 April 2015 and you would like to read it to you, Mr Vice-President: "The Greek Parliament urges the Government of Greece to make public the private contract signed with the producer of the video clip by Enrique Iglesias within seven days. In this transparency process, the Government will publish the requirements for administrative clauses and technical prescriptions that underpin the signing of the private contract by the Tourism Agency. The vote was taken and adopted without amendment by the unanimous vote of the 14 Members and Members present in this committee". Since this is April 1, 2015, we're on June 10, 2015, we have no record or knowledge or any kind of documentation, I'm going to ask you a few questions: First, do you agree or do you not agree that the rules are met? If so, why don't we get this by article 9? And besides, why don't we get this after the Commission's 6th approval? Is this the transparency of the Government of Feijóo, to approve unanimously that we would have access to this private contract and its clauses and not to have it on June 10, 2015?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u375	Thank you very much, Mrs. Adam.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u376	Let's wait...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u377	Thank you very much, Mrs. Adam. [[Applause]] Mr. Alfonso Rueda has the floor of the vice president and chairlor, public administration and justice.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u378	Thank you very much, President. Mrs. Adam, first of all, of course, I agree that the rules are met; I would miss you more!, as surely you too. Having said this, as the matter of this question is the famous and controversial thing about your video part of Enrique Iglesias, to which you fired because you said it was useless and, therefore, that was the reason that, according to you, the Greek Government was making occult about its conditions and claiming a lack of transparency, if it seems to you, we can talk about transparency, at least I'm going to speak in the second part of my intervention. As I think what you're discussing is the usefulness or not of a measure that you said it wasn't useful because we were hiding it, we're going to talk a little bit about its effects. At least, I think it's settled in this answer to talk about what we've been chasing and what we've wanted to do with that video. I think you agree that tourism is a very important part of the Welsh GDP, that we are – fortunately for all – in a historical record number in this first quarter, and not to be fooled by the figures: 170,000 foreign visitors; and in 2014 another historical record that we hope to overcome this year: 1,063,000 tourists, compared to the 769,000 you had the year in which most foreign tourists came to Galicia. Thanks to what? A lot of things probably. Of course, not that there was less crisis now than in 2007-2008, which you think there was none. Now, fortunately, more foreign tourists are coming to Galicia, which translates into greater wealth, and – I say – is good for everyone. And that's going to have to see something with an appropriate planning, advocacy policy, which includes this video as well, which hasn't been paid to the artist who exits the video, nor has the video itself been paid for a promotional action. By the way, already seen by 23 million people, which is like saying twenty-four times more than those who saw all the promotional videos that made the set of autonomous communities in the field of tourism. And so I already say that in the cause-effect relationship, although it's hard to show and it's never direct, I think that something or enough will have to see this type of promotional action, that you not only fired, but even in many cases, and I think with quite joy – it's a personal opinion of my government – have dared to ridicule, probably, without taking into account the objectives or, above all, the results that we have achieved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u379	Thank you, Mr. Rueda. Mrs. Adam. Mrs. Adán Villamarín's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u380	Mr. Vice-President, we do not ask you about the objectives of this video, because this has already challenged the Director of the Tourism Agency and we have already told you that we did not agree, that you cannot come here with how many "likes" you have on social networks to really explain a serious debate about the impact of this video on tourism in Galicia. And we've also wondered about why Galician music goes away – we see it, for example, with Planet Furancho – and we promote Enrique Iglesias. These are different issues. Now, we asked him about this contract, that you guys after we asked this question and had included it on the agenda on June 8, 2015. But we want to know why he went so dark. If you were so sure of this Government action, why didn't you immediately send this private contract under Article 9 so that there would be real transparency to the Members of this House? Why does it take two and a half months after you approve it in a commission, in Commission 6th on April 1, 2015, and you come here and you don't even talk about that private contract? Because it's true it was 300,000 euros for Enrique Iglesias, or isn't it? Because you came here and said no, that there was no such transfer of capital. There was this transfer of capital for the promotion of this lord, who, really, has no economic necessity whatsoever, while Galician music is suffering all sorts of cuts. The last one: the removal of a radio gaga program itself. That is why we want to ask you today: why do you always demand transparency and Members and Members cannot have access to the information we request both by Article 9 and then even that it is adopted in a committee which is the subject of this question? We want to know why this private contract was not sent to us and its clauses as we demanded, and how it was approved in a commission. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u381	Thank you very much. Mr. Alfonso Rueda, Vice-President and President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u382	Thank you. Well, Mrs. Adam, the contract is actually published, and what happens is that you haven't read it, but you wouldn't tell me that we paid Enrique Churches or a euro. [[Murmurs.]] It was paid for a video, a promotional action, not a video. And if you had read the nails and read the contract, you would realize that a very important part was for German workers and Greek workers, who stayed here, production and by-production, companies here. Talk to them, instead of giving up their work, instead of giving up any promotional action that the Galician Union does, even if it has a much better result than you did, and you will realize that, one out of two, or not read this, which is actually available, is published – as you said – three months later... Of course, I could ask you why nine months after asking for the costs of the Book Fair in Havana, now that we're talking about cultural promotion and tourist promotion, we had absolutely nothing, EUR 1,800,000, what was the return? [[Murmurs.]] Why nine months after asking for it didn't answer anything, it took nine months to give the first answers and it turns out that it had to be General Intervention who took out the colors, hid 600,000 euros in their answer, brought up 600,000 euros more spending. What was the reason? Of course, it would be a cover-up, which was not the reason here. Here's everything at your disposal. [[Murmurs.]] Why didn't they answer the questions we asked about spending in 2006, 522,000 euros, at a gastronomy event in the United Nations cafeteria in New York? We asked where was all this, how was it hired, what were the repercussions, and nothing at all. [[Murmurs.]] Why didn't they answer a question of €300,000 for recording a cooking program in Galicia called Spain on the road, which was distributed once through the TDS channel? Hey, what was the reason? Were they hiding something or is it just a lack of diligence? They didn't even answer. Here's the contract, and you'll find out that 23 million visitors, historical record of foreign tourists coming to Galicia. Let's hope so, though sometimes listening to them seems like they have a special interest in not coming to people here and, if they come, they're scared and they don't come back. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u383	Thank you. Question by Juan Carlos González Santín and two other Members of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the number of sanctions imposed by the Instituto Galego de Consumo to financial entities which persist in the use of so-called "ground clauses", pursuant to Law 2/2012 of 28 March, Galician general protection of consumers and users
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u384	Mr. Sánchez Bugallo has the floor to ask his question.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u385	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good afternoon. Counsellor, the question in essence is this: for several years there has been a great battle on the part of people and families who have subscribed mortgages against so-called ground clauses. There are at least three rulings of the Supreme Court, the three concordants, which annul those clauses by understanding that it is an abusive position or an abusive position of the dominant party, which would rightly be the bank. Since these judgments there are different financial entities, it must be said that among them it is today the main in Galicia, which is Abanca at the moment, previously Novacaxagalicia, that it is by its very own means applying the removal of these ground clauses. There are other financial institutions, I think the Bank of Bilbao Vizcaya, who also applied them on their own. But there are other entities who have been repeatedly refusing to apply them on their own and who are forcing each person to bring a trial for his own mortgage. This gives rise to many people who, for reasons of ignorance or lack of resources, do not pose, do not bring judgment to their bank and therefore continue to pay, and so they are required to pay for that clause. At this point, a French company, the Société Générale, was assessing that in 2014 the Spanish financial institutions earned EUR 780 million for clauses that had to be deleted but that did not delete. In this sense, this parliamentary group has put forward different initiatives in this House, the previous one in October last year, which led to the adoption of an agreement almost unanimously by this Parliament, with 68 votes in favour and one abstention, which said: "The Greek Parliament urges the Council of Galicia to enable the necessary mechanisms for the adoption of the appropriate sanctions measures against financial institutions which persist in the abuse of not withdrawing the floor clauses from banking contracts with particulars, while giving maximum coverage to consumers". This is the agreement you adopted, ladies and gentlemen, this Parliament nine months ago. After nine months, the question raised by our group, ladies and gentlemen, because we see that it persists, and yesterday even the valet of the people spoke of thousands of cases of affected in Galicia for which he himself qualified as abuse of dominant position, our question is: Counsellor, how many sanctions, pursuant to Law 2/2012, is imposed...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u386	Thank you very much, Mr Bugallo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u387	...the Galician Consumer Institute to financial institutions...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u388	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u389	...that they persist in the use of ground clauses?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u390	The Councilman of Economics and Industry, Mr. Francisco Conde, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u391	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Mr. Sánchez Bugallo, logically, the first thing to move this government is commitment to citizenship and commitment, logically, in a very special way to all the most vulnerable groups. A commitment that this government is carrying out with rigour, which is leading to practice at all times respecting legality, of course, lordship, and logically also... people's freedom of choice by trying to ensure that they make their decisions with information and with the necessary clarifications. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I, Mr. Sánchez Bugallo, think it's good to try to be honest and not try to confuse. When you speak and refer to the Supreme Court, you know perfectly well – you know – that not all ground clauses are abusive, you know and you don't say so. And he knows, therefore, that not all ground clauses are null. As you know and do not say, the Supreme Court or what you say in your recent judgment is – and I quote textually the Supreme Court judgment – "that the ground clauses are lawful, provided that their transparency enables the consumer to identify the clause as defining the principal object of the contract and to know the real risk sharing of the variability of types." This is, Mr. Sánchez Bugallo, exactly what the Supreme Court says and what you want to hide from this House. In any case, it would, logically, from the Galician Summit, and particularly from the Galician Consumer Institute, assume direct responsibility, firstly, for giving all kinds of information and all kinds of advice to consumers so that, in fact, when they have any kind of relationship with financial entities, and particularly those linked to the ground clauses, they have all the information. And logically he also knows that the Galician Consumer Institute acts by opening sanctioning files when the case is taken. And as you know perfectly well, and that you also want to hide it in this House, that effective possibility of sanction by the consumer authorities is limited in the case of ground clauses to the mortgage contracts signed after May 2013 and also when the lack of transparency was verified by the Banco de España or the civil jurisdiction. And none of those circumstances, Mr. Sánchez Bugallo, have fallen so far. I don't know if you want the Galego Consumption Institute to do the same as in Andalusia and do the same as in Asturias, which opened sanctioning files and that Oviedo's own Dispute-Administrative Judge has already declared the nullity of sanctions imposed by the Principality of Asturias for the inclusion of ground causes, for opening sanctioning files when they had no jurisdiction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u392	Thank you. Mr. Sánchez Bugallo's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u393	Thank you very much, Madam President, and thank you very much, Counselor, for your non-information. I'm going to read the question again: How many sanctions under Law 2/2012 have the Galego Institute of Consumption imposed on financial entities that persist in the use of solo clauses? I interpret his words that neither, nor any penalty, nor any file, because otherwise I would give a number. Neither are you in letters nor am I, either, so if you don't give a number is that I understand that the real number is zero. And unfortunately, Your Honor, this calls into question his sincerity and that of his government when he expresses concern for the weakest. Look, today the president of the board assumed in this chamber the number of escaped from Galicia, which was less than the national average. It does it just three days after it becomes public that last year was 2.519, i.e., about 15,000 in which it carries the current government of the Union in its functions. That's a real tide. In the face of this tide, I have just seen what has just been published in the Official Journal of Galicia on Wednesday, June 3, in which the aid is published for the purchase of protected housing, used and promotion for own use by families, and also at the level of companies for the construction of those intended for rent and accommodation, and it places: a maximum of 124,000 euros. I said, it must be for each of you to ask. But I'm going to look at the game, part 0781451B7700, 124,000 euros, i.e. a help, because it doesn't give for another 124,000 euros. That's the government's concern about housing that you're part of: 15,000 refugees, 43 resettled in fostered housing and made available to you by the Galician Union...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u394	Thank you very much, Mr. Sánchez Bugallo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u395	...and EUR 124,000 for companies and 21,200 for individuals.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u396	Thank you very much. The Councilman of Economics and Industry, Mr. Francisco Conde, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u397	I see, Your Honor, you're not too interested in what the Supreme Court says, or you're interested in what you're trying to move. And I'm also curious that, when you make a different intervention to your own question and I answer you, you don't care and you refer me to the question in writing, that I, logically, will also answer you now in the reply. In any case, Your Honor, as you know, on the subject of ground clauses both the Galician Union and the Central Government are acting in a coordinated manner, because both the State Administration and the Galician Union have competence and have to develop these powers. And we are cooperating precisely to ensure the transparency of the ground clauses and, logically, to give all the information to consumers. In this sense, as you know, the Banco de España – it does not refer to that – is what it is actually verifying that the requirements set by all orders of transfer and protection of bank customers are met, and you know perfectly well, and it is worth it, that more than twelve thousand claims have been made, and 80% of these claims have been in favour of consumers, exactly 82% of all files related to the plain clauses have been released in favour of the claimant. And he also knows perfectly well that the Galician Consumer Institute acts when he has the competences that mark his current legislation. So far, no circumstance has been given in the regulations so that once the reference in the Banco de España had been reflected, it would have to open any type of sanctioning file. And that's in the application of your powers. But logically, what the Galego Institute of Consumers is not going to do is open a sanctioning file, as they did in Asturias, when they don't have the powers, so that then the litigation-administrative judge will declare the nullity of these proceedings. So, Your Honor, if I may, in matters of consumer protection, the important thing, if I may, is not the body that defends consumers, but the important thing is that consumers are defended in their rights. And there, on the subject of ground clauses, they are acting in a coordinated manner – although it is strange –, in a coordinated manner, both the Administration of the State and the Council of Galicia. And we'll continue there. In fact, in the area of housing policy, as the President has reflected, he knows perfectly well that we will not stop working until a single family is at risk of losing their home, we will do so, we are doing it with the Reconduce programme, in view of the families that are actually in a situation of risk of death and, logically, we will continue to have all guarantees so that this does not happen. Thank you very much, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u398	Thank you very much. Question by Mr José Manuel Beiras Torrado and six other Members of the G.P. of the Alternative Glaga de Left, on the opinion of the Board of Galicia regarding the current system for families to have textbooks in compulsory education
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u399	Mr. Vázquez has the floor to ask his question.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u400	Good afternoon, Counselor. Without a doubt, one of the most unjust measures of the many that he has approved of his government, along with compensation in school lunches, was the establishment of a system of collapsing in textbooks. You ended up with a universal loan system of textbooks that ensures that all families universally access material, textbooks, without also allowing an important savings for public buildings. They have now established a school check system for the purchase of books that is absolutely ineffective, absolutely expensive and totally insufficient for families. In the current call, at this year's call, a family, a couple who enter 700 euros each member and with one child will receive a €90 help for the purchase of textbooks and school materials. You will receive an aid of EUR 170 if you earn less than EUR 675 each. And besides, this call doesn't include school material, nor does it help families who have educated their children in childhood education. And that's when the average cost to start the course of a family per child is about 700 euros, including books, school materials, tuition, dining expenses, extra-school activities, etc. How can a family that earns 700 euros each of the couple's members assume 700 euros of spending with a help of 90 euros? That's the question we should answer. But in the face of this popular cry, in the face of the failure of the school check system for the purchase of textbooks, families organized book banking systems, because families are self-organized to solve the problems that this government causes. And in the face of this scandal, as evidenced by the greatest incompetence in the current call, the Government of Wales is organizing a book bank system, a system of solidarity loan – as you call it – so that third and fifth students can access the textbooks. But the call itself leaves out those students who can't access on the basis of the number of books available in that bookstore. So it's a cut, a cut covered but a cut, because the third and fifth students won't be able to access ordinary help. It is therefore presented as an advance which is actually a real cut. What do you plan to do when textbooks don't reach families who could access regular help earlier? How will they make it easier for all families to access the textbooks? How can they call this system of free solidarity when it's neither free nor much less solidarity? How are you going to solve this situation, Counselor?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u401	Thank you very much. The Councillor for Culture Education and Universitary ordination, Mr. Román Rodríguez, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u402	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Vázquez, I wanted to be very clear, and I wanted to make it very clear here at parliamentary headquarters that all families who need it will have textbooks. And I'm going to tell you again: all those families that are inside the income thresholds that we understand make public administration support necessary, they'll all have textbooks. And I'm going to tell you how we're going to do it: on the one hand, we've already introduced the current system, which is the logical evolution of the pre-existing system, where we make a bet decided by the digital book, which we already know, and it's growing its number; on the other hand, the system of checks for families in all courses, with the exception of the third and fifth primary, second and fourth ESO, and for these courses, the set-up of a solidarity fund is being developed. What is this solidarity fund? This solidarity fund is neither more nor less than a book bank – as you would call it – where those families who were beneficiaries at their time of the book purchase aids deposit their textbooks, so that later, with an inverse correlation to the income level, all those families can go to this background to collect books. If, in any particular case, we understand that it can happen, but it will be concrete questions, there may be more applicants than books on offer, the Administration will put the necessary means for no one, no family is without textbooks. That's what I want you to be perfectly clear about so that there's no kind of confusion. All those families who need and need textbooks and who are within the income thresholds that the Administration sets to access them will have and enable the necessary solutions to do so. We understand that this model, in contrast to what you propose, of universal loan, is much more socially and precisely and allows for the focus and priority of families with less resources. We understand it's true redistributive justice. And I see with concern certain messages that are being released to society. You're telling society that when there's funds or book banks, if I do them right, if the administration does them wrong. They're promoting some real non-solidary messages. You're saying: don't take part in voting with the public funds of the Galician Union, don't cooperate with them. How do you like it here? We make a call to the educational community, that we make efforts, that we all collaborate, that we all participate, because this is not going to be better for the government...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u403	Thank you very much, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u404	...will be better especially for those families who need it most. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u405	Replica by Don Ramón Vázquez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u406	Counselor, I will recognize at least a high level of improvisation in this case as in many others, because article 7 of the current summons, which I referred to in the first part of my intervention, says that the center will assign the use of textbooks available in reverse order to the per capita income of the family unit, says nothing of what you added; I don't know if you're going to make a modification of the summons because it says nothing about what you say and has just said. It is therefore impossible to ensure that the book bank in the centre has the number of units, the number of copies corresponding to the number of applications. Nothing in order does any kind of prediction in that respect, you do it here in your voice. Please write it down at the call, make a change, and the families will be calmer. Secondly, of course, we understand that families organize book banks to access materials, but we don't understand that a government covers access to a basic and fundamental right as is the right to education by organizing book banks. We defend that a government has to build tools to ensure compliance and access to rights, not practice charity. You organize a system that is based directly on an absolutely charitable system. And what you have to guarantee is that all families have the necessary school material, not through booksbanks. You're the government of the banks, not just because they clean up their banks, but because they organize carpet banks, food banks, now book banks. They have nothing left to organize in a completely charitable way. Don't insist on trying to convince us that this is a system, of course, more progressive and equitable. Families who have the highest incomes, of course, are interested in payment and payment systems to pay directly for services and not to provide services to those who enjoy their entire citizenship. It's people who have less wages than they need progressive taxation...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u407	Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Replica from the Councillor for Culture, Education and Universitary Order.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u408	Mr. Vázquez, we fully agree: whoever else has to pay more and whoever has to receive more help from the Administration; absolutely agree. And I'm going to tell you one thing: you talk about charity. When a book bank or a book fund sets in motion an Anpa or a municipality, is that charity for you? When an administration wants to foster solidarity, is that charity for you? I don't know. In any case, look, this government has shown in many actions that makes a real bet on the redistributive character, for supporting more people who need it. You will understand as I do that society – and I have to say in this House – does not have to pay my children's books when there are other priorities. I'll understand, and I'll understand that, perhaps, in a family with scarce resources we'll have to focus our efforts there, especially in times of scarcity, in moments of scarce resources, because the rest is the usual, the rest is a coffee for everyone, let's say, what we like to do in a friendly way, but really what we have to do is focus our efforts on families who need it most, and that's what we're proposing. And what can't be, is that in this autonomous community, where you make a remarkable effort to provide books to families, if you question it in such a radical way, because in many autonomous communities – and many governed by different parties – you don't put up a euro, and here you put many millions of euros to help families who need it most. I would ask them to take responsibility for the following: because it cannot be said that, after demanding and listening to this House for active and passive support of the book bank in the centres, for supporting the book banks in the centres, now that it is done, if it questions in such a radical way; it cannot be, it is not understandable. And it can't be that after you – and when I say you say the parliamentary arch of opposition – you are constantly questioning that you don't help those who need it, now that you've been practicing a system that helps those who need it most, you don't like it. It can't be that when we always demand participation and solidarity, now that we have a system on this path, it's also said that we don't like it. I would ask them not to notice in the messages to society that different interests are given priority to the interests of families and children, because it gives absolutely the feeling that they have more interests than the interests of children, who are the ones that, at least this government, worry us. And I want to be very clear, as I began: that it is very clear that all those families who need textbooks will have them with the system of solidarity, the system of scholarships and the system of digital book. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u409	Thank you very much, Counselor. Question by Mr Hippolito Farínas Sobrino and seven other Members of the G.P. Popular in Galicia, on the assessment by the Government of the strategy to promote entrepreneurship among young people in Greece developed from the educational field
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u410	Thank you very much, President. Counsellor, it is known that the Council of Culture, Education and Universitary ordination has developed a strategy to promote the entrepreneurial spirit with the aim of improving the possibility of creating new companies that expand the employment opportunities of people who have obtained some degree of bachelor's degree, FP, plastic arts and design, sports, secondary education for adults, higher education in design and conservation and restoration of cultural goods in the last four years. We understand entrepreneurship as the opportunity for youth to have a more prosperous future and to generate wealth and well-being on their land. With the aim of being able to face this path with the greatest of the guarantees, since the Galician Union special attention is paid to the formative stage in order to provide the young with all the resources and counselling. This parliamentary group has a commitment to the training and entrepreneurship of our young people, and has demonstrated this by presenting several non-law proposals in this House to urge the Galician Union to continue to promote education and training aimed at promoting entrepreneurial capacity among students and at the implementation of new initiatives and new business lifers within educational centres, with the aim of promoting entrepreneurship among students. The Plan of Entrepreneurship in the education system of Galicia, Eduemprene, aims to foster the entrepreneurial spirit in the education system of Galicia, and establishes the strategy of enhancing the entrepreneurial culture. The overall objective of this plan is to make progress in the culture of entrepreneurship in our student and to propose instruments that enable us to know the achievements achieved. To this end it has various programs, including FP Entrepreneur, which aims to make it easier for a student in Greek for suitable spaces and counselling for the start-up of a business of viable business projects in educational centres that make up the Welsh network of business farmers in educational centers. But Eduemprene also covers several areas and lines of action, all with the aim of incorporating student skills and skills, both the idea of enterprise and the business initiative, and ways to build business models or start projects. What evaluation does the government of the strategy of promoting entrepreneurship between young people and young women in the education field make? Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u411	Thank you very much. The Councillor for Culture, Education and Universitary Order has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u412	Thank you very much, Madam President. Sir, what's an entrepreneur? An entrepreneur is a person, a young person, who has certain intrinsic attitudes, has a certain capacity to foster innovation, has a resolute attitude, an active attitude towards life and a brave attitude; someone who has the desire to generate new opportunities, who has the desire to introduce his ideas into the market, to create an economic activity, to generate a proactive attitude with a job; that is, to put his creativity, his desire and his effort as a fundamental pillar to drive an initiative. Well, is an entrepreneur born or is he? Obviously, it is born to some extent, but it is also done, and we can also support it from the educational system. I think this government is doing a good job of support for entrepreneurs in education, and it does it in various projects and programs. In vocational training, for example, support for entrepreneurship is crucial: training cycles are adapted to work reality, cross-border competences are introduced, students are encouraged to participate in work centres through FCT scholarships, they are being launched and dual vocational training projects are being put in place, they are being waged by an integral plan, which is Eduempre, which has developed and developed in collaboration with the Economic and Industrial Council, a plan that covers different initiatives, but a very important one – which we understand very important – is the bet on by the network of business farmers in educational centres. Since 2009 we have had the promotion and creation of 63 initiatives for the creation of companies and young entrepreneurs, including prizes such as the Eduemprete prizes, with educational innovation programs, such as the Simula programme –11 centres, 430 students involved, which have set up virtual business in different areas: hospitality, commerce and administration – the Advanced program – which facilitates practical training and specific training and how to create a business model – the Atrévete program – which in four provinces has 3,200 pupils involved in primary and secondary schools – or the Actua programme, in collaboration with Igape – which allows the student to reach out to the student of vocational training and graduate vocational and professional experiences of successful entrepreneurs in the world of work – i.e., a defined educational strategy, well accepted and involved by the educational community as well as socio-productive agents and a strategy with which the Government of Galicia is promoting the entrepreneurial spirit from teaching, through both facilities and different facilities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u413	Thank you very much, Counselor. You have the word of Mr. Ramon Santos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u414	Mr. Counsellor, thank you very much for the information you are taking us today in your answer... following the objective of our initial question, we are aware from this parliamentary group that once your studies have been completed, young men and girls in Greece are faced with serious difficulties in undertaking. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] This is one of the main problems you have, along with the lack of a physical space to be located and the absence of specific counseling. From your answer we can deduce that for the Government of Galicia, and in particular for its council, support for business farmers will be strategic, so that they can occupy the necessary space in the development of tools that provide advice, assistance and mentoring to those young and young entrepreneurs from non-university level education. Counsellor, we agree with you that this is the way to settle youth on our land so that you can solve your main problems. That's why we'd like to be provided with information about how many companies settled after passing through the nursery. Tell us, too, if possible, that measures will put in place your advice to strengthen this network. And finally, how many livestock networks are planned to create in the coming years. Nothing else and thank you very much for your answers.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u415	Thank you very much. The Councillor for Culture, Education and Universitary Order has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u416	Thank you very much. Mr President, the German network of business farmers in educational centres is a fundamental pillar of the strategy of promoting entrepreneurship in education, something that this government – including this parliamentary group – has supported, in fact there have been several initiatives in this House to increase and to support the increase in the network of nursery centres, which, of course, only have the support of the People's Group in this case, which we are grateful for. But what do business farmers do? For they allow students who are in the last vocational training courses, or even those who have already completed their cycles in the next four years, to be able to start up, in these nursery, entrepreneurial initiatives, business-oriented initiatives, geared to business creation, where the nursery provides, on the one hand, the infrastructure, the necessary physical space, but also provides, with complementary training and counselling services, those strategies, that supplementary information that young entrepreneur needs to start up his business. As I explained earlier, the livestock network is now formed by 17 farmers throughout Galicia – we have already seen to increase it immediately to four more – and in these facilities 63 companies have developed, i.e., in the network of business farmers in educational centres, we already have 63 business initiatives, which obviously contribute to creating jobs, especially in young people. Of these 63, 22 are already out, they're already working outside the nursery. We have 9 that are already consolidated and still working inside, but that are expected to quickly go out into the market, and we have 32 that are also in the management project; with which, we're talking about 63 business initiatives that were developed in business farmers. And you will understand that this initiative of empowering business farmers in educational centres is something we aspire to strengthen, and we aim to strengthen because it contributes to encouraging young people's employability. We are convinced that it helps to encourage and that it is useful for young people in Greece to find and find jobs. So in the coming months, over the next few years, we have a commitment to extend the network of business farmers to all those integrated vocational training centres and to other educational centres, including IES, where there are comarcial demands, because we understand that it contributes to creating jobs in younger people and contributes to creating economic activity in the younger population. We think the nursery network is an activity, it's a project, which makes a lot of sense, because students in training are already, in these nursery areas, contributing to germinating their business ideas, and therefore promoting their employability. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u417	Thank you very much, Counselor. Da Eva Solla Fernández, G.P. of the Alternative Galician Left, on the number of beds to be closed in each of Galician public hospitals in June, July, August and September 2015
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u418	You have a word for Mrs. Díaz to ask the question.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u419	Thank you, President. Counsellor, I would like to read a text that is in Spanish and that says: "In evolutionary terms, figure four shows that private health expenditure has shown a growing trend in the last decade, from 2.05 % of GDP in 2000 to 2.63 % in 2012. In absolute terms, private spending has historically high levels in the period of economic crisis, resulting from public investment in a context of financial difficulties, and the public administration opts for a cost transfer policy to families." This report, Counsellor, is the Idis report – an organ I suppose you know well – the organ of the lobbies of the private hospitals of the Spanish state as a whole. This same report announces that private expenditure per capita in Galicia is EUR 562 compared to the 1.245 expenditure in the public. I mean, our private spending is exactly 45% of what we have in the public. But also, Counsellor, I would like to read you a text – which is also in Spanish and, in this case, your advisorship – of the Contingency Plan, which says: "Knowing that the pressure we're going to have in the Emergency Service is going to be high – it's expected to be higher than last year's – it's important to have a unit opening plan in case the number of patients with an emergency order without bed at 15 hours and with nothing greater than 15". This, Counselor, I suppose you know, is, in the case of the hospital, the Santiago de Compostela Continence Plan. The question we ask ourselves is, what happens if they are not 15, whether they are 13 or 12? What's going to happen? But we want to give you more information, Counselor: since you've been closing, in 2010, 588 beds; in 2011, 670 beds; in 2012, 787 beds; in 2013, 900 beds; in 2014, 1,095 beds; and it's true that this year they cut less, but we're exactly in 1,015 beds, Counsellor. Can you explain to us why you continue to attack public health and why is it allowed to paralyze public health in the summer months, Counsellor? And can you please give us the reasons why you're trying to close these beds and deprive people who need health care in our country?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u420	Thank you, Mrs. Díaz. The health advisor, Mrs. Rocío Mosquera, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u421	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good afternoon, Your Honor. Look, the Galician Health Service has planned every year, for many years, not since 2009 but since very much before 2009 – I have been in Galicia's public health system all my life and I can tell you that I have always remembered bed closing – the number of beds that will be in operation in the summer. This is no longer a peculiarity of the Galician Health Service, but it is done by all health services in all autonomous communities. [[Murmurs.]] I repeat, it is a common practice accepted and consolidated in all health services of the national health system. And, I've said it several times, in 2014 we had 86% of the beds available in hospitals. With this 86% of operational beds, the occupancy rate was 77.7% compared to 77.5% in 2013. If we took the last five years, the average occupation with these operational beds was 76.8%. Therefore, the decisions taken are based on the historical data we have in the Galician Health Service. And the reasons are quite easy to explain. In the summer age, hospital occupancy rates usually decreased. This also happens at other seasons of the year, but it's mainly due to certain pathologies, such as respiratory diseases, which are responsible for a high number of incomes, which are diminished during this time. The reorganization is done because we fulfill our fundamental duty, which is to efficiently manage the public funds that the Greek citizenship makes available to us. Otherwise, as it seems to be intended, it would be a difficultly justifiable defeat of these funds. Once again I have to insist on something that has often been heard in this House: the decision on the scope of this programming is taken into account the primary responsibility of the Greek public health to ensure at all times the safety and the care quality of patients. Besides, those beds that are not operational at any given time could be put into operation in a matter of hours. It's also common to use this time of year to make those reforms and those improvements in hospital units that are necessary. Such planning is based on a restructuring of hospital units so that patients can have the resources they need and professionals can work more rationally and comfortably, ensuring that those processes that do not need them are not delayed. Of these operational beds, as I said, 86% are, for this year, 928, those that don't become operational...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u422	Thank you very much, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u423	...and 6,288 are operational.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u424	Thank you very much, Counselor. Mrs. Díaz's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u425	Counsellor, of course we're not in a normal country, this is not a normal country, because your massive cut is growing despite the fact that respiratory diseases are more or less the same throughout the sexnium in which you are ruling. However, I insist, it is growing exponentially the cutting of beds since you rule. So, that argument that you give, of course, fails, it doesn't work; i.e., there will be the same respiratory conditions since you arrived in 2009 – which I gave you the data of 588 beds – to this day, which doubles the cut of beds. So, Counselor, let's not cheat, they're fooling us. But besides, Counsellor, it is that, according to the data we have, despite the opacity and despite you being the Government of transparency, we are not able to know the official data on the waiting lists. But all professionals and associations and class unions tell us we're in front of a waiting list of at least 37,000 people in Galicia, Counsellor. Can you explain to us why you, having 37,000 people who are on purpose, waiting for a fundamental right to be met, are you determined to continue attacking public health? Why does he keep cutting off everyone's rights and all of us, Counselor? Because, I insist, there are the same respiratory conditions now, this year, that when you arrive; and you are cutting double the beds of the bed resource, Counselor. But not only that, can you not make it obvious that you are undermining the working conditions of the public health professionals and you cannot make it clear that you are, of course, undermining the public health conditions of this country. It's obvious, Counsellor, some union says that the waiting list figures are not in 37,000 people but in 60,000.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u426	Thank you very much, Mrs. Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u427	Please tell us... and one last question...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u428	No, thank you very much, Mrs. Díaz. Time's up. [[Applause]] Mrs. Díaz, thank you. The health advisor, Mrs. Rocío Mosquera, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u429	Thank you, Madam President. I repeat, taking into account 86% of the operational beds, we have an occupation rate of 77.7%; that is, we have a mattress enough to make the revenues that are produced in this period. On the other hand, it is true that in this period most of our professionals want to enjoy vacations – and they are entitled to them because they work the whole year in a very important way – but it increases the number of interventions, increases the number of consultations and has increased throughout all these years, year by year, all hospital activity; and 73% calls for vacations in this period and enjoys them. And, of course, there are no unemployed specialists in particular to cover all professional teams. With which to... No, there are no unemployed specialists. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Look, I want to thank most professionals for their work, and there's no professional unemployment to replace certain specialists. [[Murmurs.]] So what we have to do is make a strict management of vacations, resources, bed resources, surgical resources, and proper planning of the entire health system. That's what we do year by year with history, because we have historical data and we know how our hospitals behave and how they behave. And the management teams what they do is precisely that rigorous and efficient management of resources. There's something else we couldn't do, and of course we'd be mismanagement of public resources if we hadn't done so. On the other hand, all autonomous communities -- I told you before -- others disguise it with other names, others say that what they do is they have reserved beds -- well... -- and in other autonomous communities where you formed the government...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u430	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u431	...they pay 75% of their interns. Look, I think we have to manage the public system well. [[Murmurs.]] We need to make strict and efficient management. And, of course, reorganisation of beds and really adapt the number of beds to the income we have and the index of occupation is an improvement in management, without any doubt.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u432	Thank you very much, Counselor. Ms. Da María Montserrat Prado Cores, G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the modification of the children's vaccination schedule carried out by the Health Council in May 2015
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u433	Mrs. Prado has the floor to ask her question.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u434	Good afternoon. It is customary for the Ministry of Health to be obliged to constantly update the list of medicines available to supply, since the destruction by pharmaceutical multinationals is becoming standard. The depletion of some medicines has always been a matter of time, but in recent times it has become timeless to be normal, becoming normal. Never before had the number of meds in supply been so high; for example, at the end of May there were days when these were 175, other days of 188. On May 13 the Health Adviser sent a communication to health professionals by modifying the schedule of children's vaccines in Galicia. This change consists of replacing the vaccine dose called "pentavalent", which was supplied at 4 and 18 months, by hexavalent, which included hepatitis B, and delaying the trivalent, which was supplied at 6 years until further notice. That's why we found out that there are children who are going to receive an extra free dose of hepatitis B and 6-year-olds who are going to be out of memory. The health counsellor, his counsellor, justifies the measure in the difficulty of providing vaccines by the two multinationals who manufacture it, Glaxo and Sanofi. This depletion has been added to the fact that already recurrent antibiotics that are used for the usual treatment of infections of young children and young children of short age have been eliminated, a situation that has caused since the Spanish Association of Pediatrics had to publish alternative protocols, given that there are treatments that have to be modified again because they were not. We also have information that there are problems in supplying adult vaccines. There are situations where supply is needed when there are diseases that are going to undergo immunosuppression, and when they are expected to cause this situation, a certain vaccine will be administered. Because of this deforestation, there are few cases where treatment for these seriously ill people has to be delayed. There are also reports of tuberculosis depletion, necessary for diagnostic evidence of tuberculosis. And we're seeing that we're depending on which pharmaceuticals dispense drugs to be able to supply them. We're looking at pharmaceuticals who have absolute control over diseases and treatments, placing on the market the drugs they consider and the price they consider. We believe, Counsellor, that we must skip these patents and act. We asked him: How long will they continue to yield to the blackmail of multinational pharmaceuticals? Are they going to continue to give in to their pressure or are they going to do some action to put first the health of the Greeks and the Greeks and not the interests of the pharmaceuticals?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u435	Thank you very much. The health advisor, Mrs. Rocío Mosquera, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u436	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, Your Honor. It is true that, at the end of April of this year, the Ministry of Health, Social Services and Equality communicated, through the Vaccination Programs and Registers Forum, the stock-disposal situation, with regard to Glaxo as regards pentavalent vaccine and triple bacterial vaccine. It's a problem of antigen production against ferin cough, a problem that affects global production. It is therefore not only a problem of Galicia or even Spain but it affects the whole of the international community. This company was already the only one that had been supplying throughout Spain the triple TPA recall vaccine, because the other company that was also authorized, Sanofi, had been serving the vaccine for more than two years, also due to production problems. Thus, once the new one has been received, the Ministry convenes an urgent meeting of the Vaccination Programme and Logs Forum to assess the situation in each autonomous community and to agree on a uniform response to this common and shared difficulty. This presentation, which, as I say, is coordinated by the Directorate for Public Health, Quality and Innovation of the Ministry of Health, in which all autonomous communities, the Centre for Epidemiology and the Spanish Medicines and Sanitary Products Agency, are represented, takes a resolution. Because what we want and what we all want is to ensure a proper vaccination of children under 3 years of age, a guarantee for children individually and also for group immunization. This is done by obtaining the coverage that we currently have of 95% of the vaccination against these diseases. And the answer that was made was the following: the pattern that was established was for primary vaccination, that is, for children aged 2.4 and 6 months will be vaccinated with the hexavalent vaccine. A preferred prevaccination of the hexavalent vaccine – as I say – will also be used at 18 months. Why? Well, because we are without vaccine, and not only in Spain, but – as I say – internationally. At 18 months the pentavalent vaccine will be put, because we still have vaccine in our autonomous community to put the pentavalent vaccine throughout this year. It is decided that the 6-year-old memory will delay until it is arranged, until we have enough vaccine to ensure the vaccination of all children from all over the Spanish State, the whole national health system. This is based on technical criteria. It is the technicians who decide this modification of the vaccine calendar because the priority – as I say – are...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u437	Thank you very much, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u438	...children under 3 years of age. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u439	Mrs. Prado Cores' reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u440	I stand still, Counselor; as it is an evil of many; for nothing, quiet all. What I'm asking you is, how can millions of people be allowed to have their health in the hands of two pharmaceutical companies?, how can you be allowed to say here today that more than a year ago than one of them no longer supplies drugs and that we are now in the hands of the other one to manufacture them and supply them when you consider it appropriate? Because this change coincides in time with the first case of diphtheria diagnosed in the Spanish state after twenty-eight years, the child of the Catalan town of Olot, of diphtheria, which is one of the vaccines that at the age of six we don't know until when. I hope you tell me until when. It also coincides in time with the pilgrimage to which parents and mothers were forced to go to Portugal or buy the men's B vaccine online for the Ministry's decision not to include it in vaccination in the vaccination schedule. It coincides in time with the problem of varicella vaccine, which also decided not to supply it at early age; and what you're doing is making an alert to parents and mothers, who don't know what to do. It coincides in time with statements by the Minister of Health, who says it is irresponsible not to vaccinate children, who risks not only their health but that of the entire population. I mean, there's an alarm generated through this whole situation. And you say there's no problem because it's a world problem. So, as it's a world problem, you cross-arms waiting for someone to solve them. Now, there are more than reasonable suspicions that there are certain laboratories that use the tactic of deforestation, the lack of supplies to achieve their objectives, to achieve market control, to achieve a dominant position on the market. These practices are lethal to the health system, Counsellor. So I ask you, how long are they going to let the pharmaceutical industries decide on our health? How long are they going to allow them?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u441	Thank you very much, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u442	...will they do something or will they keep...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u443	Replica from the health advisor, Mrs. Rocío Mosquera.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u444	Thank you, Madam President. What creates the social alarm above all is to mix everything up so that it's all a revolutionary planet. Look, Olot's boy wasn't vaccinated. He wasn't vaccinated by parents' decisions; he had, he has diphtheria by an individual decision. In fact, the other children who do have the bacteria being vaccinated don't have the disease. So Olot's boy didn't mix with the rest of the problems with the vaccines. Let's not mix the desisting of drugs with this point problem of the desisting of a specific vaccine, which we're all very concerned about. And I can assure you that the Ministry is working with the rest of the ministries in Europe precisely to try to fix this problem. And we're working, all autonomous communities, because I think all communities are concerned enough about this problem to work with the Ministry, all together, to try to fix this problem. How the problems aren't solved is mixing everything and creating social alarm. So what we have to discuss right now is that there is a vaccination program for all children, to ensure that all Spanish children are perfectly vaccinated from all these pathologies, which can of course be very serious if the children do not get vaccinated and if the parents and mothers who are in these anti-active associations decide not to vaccinate. So I think that's a problem. And what we have to do is guarantee that vaccination. And we've guaranteed with the existing doses that vaccination this whole year, and we hope it will be solved. We have the first vaccination, the 18-month recall vaccination, and what we did was postpone the 6-month vaccination, precisely because it's a dose of vaccination, until we try to fix the problems. [[Murmurs.]] Do you have the solution to the problem? So delighted to share it with you, Your Honor...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u445	Quiet, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u446	...beautiful to share it with you. But, of course, what we have is guaranteed this vaccination. With meningitis B – as you know – we were the first to urge the Ministry to obviously put it in the pharmacies. And, of course, we're going to keep repeating that it's a new vaccine... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u447	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u448	...that it is necessary to ensure safety, that it is necessary to guarantee the quality of the vaccine and, of course, that the Ministry acted with the necessary caution to do what it had to do. And of course, what's not welcome is going to buy – and I said several times – the vaccine to Portugal. What we have to do... [[Mrs. Prado Cores speaks words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u449	Quiet, Mrs. Prado, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u450	What we have to do is ensure – as I say – the vaccination of children in safety and quality conditions; it is to have a register of children vaccinated, which is currently causing us much difficulty. And, of course, this is so, Your Honor. And don't mix all the subjects, because in the end what...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u451	Thank you very much, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u452	...we've achieved that parents don't vaccinate children. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Da María Carmen Gallego Calvar, from G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the forecasts of the Government of Galicia to deal with the social divide that is taking place in Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u453	You have the floor to Mrs. Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u454	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Mrs. Labour and Welfare Counsellor, the Socialist Group's question is very simple. We wonder how the Government of Galicia will face, what you are part of, the growing social divide that is taking place in the autonomous community of Galicia. Today we heard President Feijóo deny the evidence of the data and assume that in Galicia the rate of poverty was lower today than when there was another government. I will not enter that game of poverty percentages, Counselor, because the only thing is that today there are more poor people in Galicia than when Mr. Feijóo came to the government. That can't be denied either by you or by President Feijóo, as much as they try to twist statistics and hide that these statistics are done according to the evolution of the average family income. What you can't deny – and it's also at the National Institute of Statistics, in the June 2015 Life Conditions Survey – is that today there are 12% more homes lacking in at least two concepts according to the Europe 2020 Strategy that since Mr. Feijóo's government arrived. Or today, in Galicia, there are 17% more homes where the family cannot go on vacation, at least one week a year, than when Mr. Feijóo arrived. Or today there are 10.3% more homes with difficulty to arrive at the end of the month in Galicia than in 2009. Or today there are 2.1% more homes with severe material shortages than in 2009. That can't be denied to you as much as you're trying to make the statistics. You have tools to fight poverty and inequality. One of them is the Act of Inclusion – not developed, Counsellor – with a decree that had to be published in the Official Journal of Galicia six months after that law had been passed and it had been a year late. Response from his counsellor to this delay, none. You have a strategy of social inclusion in Galicia that has been approved; you have boasted here that with the approval of all social groups. What was that inclusion strategy, Counselor? The absolute failure of Mr Feijóo and yourself in the fight against exclusion and poverty in our country. Not only because there are more people in poverty today than when you arrived, but because, Counselor, the few economic resources Galicia is dedicated to fighting poverty and social exclusion cover only 30% of the people who need it. And above all, with delays of more than ten months in granting Risga, despite the fact that you here solemnly, in August last year, committed yourself to the unanimity of the parliamentary groups to which I was to end the delay in granting Risga. Counsellor, when are you going to pay the people you're waiting for?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u455	Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Mrs Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u456	The work and well-being advisor, Mrs. Beatriz Mato, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u457	Thank you very much, President. Your Honor, in the spirit of making my words the most transparent words you can read to what the polls say – exactly as you do – without the spirit of twisting absolutely nothing and of course to make absolutely nothing, and of course, as a member of this government – and as the president says – without assuming anything, the statistics published by Foesa say that the autonomous community of Galicia is the fifth community with the lowest rate of exclusion; the statistics published by INE – which, of course, is not capable of manipulating this board of Galicia – says that the autonomous community of Galicia is the fourth autonomous community with the lowest risk of poverty; the statistics published by the INE also say that that this social gap to which you mention of inequality is not the reality that accompanies our community, especially if we compare the rest of the autonomous communities. So much so that within the income decisions, first and second income decisions that exist in our lowest income community along with the ninth and tenth percent income of the highest income, our autonomous community has 29.4% of our population at these extremes of decision-making. And we are the community with less population at the ends of income, the community with less population. The same does not happen in Andalusia, for example, where the Socialist Party is ruling, which is 29.6% of the population, and even in Asturias, from the first to the second Dec. Of course, this situation, from which you will not read, but it is true that it is published and at the disposal of the world, does not satisfy this government of the Council of Galicia. There's no question of whether there's 15% or 20%. 20 per cent was the poverty rate that left the Socialist Government, 15 per cent is the current poverty rate. And that 15% is not a positive data, not a lot less. For that, the Greeks and the Greeks are waiting for us solutions. Solutions that are already being implemented, that are being implemented not only as a result of the dialogue, but as a result of the budgetary commitment. And today there's 13% more in the 2015 budget for social inclusion, up to 70 million euros, and there's 20% more in the social integration income budget, which we just increased by 2.4 million euros to meet all the demands of those people who have the right to receive social integration income. And currently in the province of Lugo and in the province of Ourense there's not a month to wait, because they're up to date, in the province of Coruña we're in time and in the province of Pontevedra we're speeding up all the procedure to reach the people of social integration income. And, of course, we're developing another set of measures, such as supporting a 13% increase also for entities working with social exclusion, and even a new agreement with the Food Bank.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u458	Thank you, Counselor. Mrs Gallego Calvar's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u459	Counselor, are there more people in poverty today in Galicia or less than when you started ruling? Answer: there are more, more, more, counsellor. So, you go to the statistics you want, the reality is there's a lot more. So much so the reality that you've had to increase the budget devoted to social inclusion income precisely because there's more poverty. You twist whatever you want. Counselor, you only serve 30 percent of the people who have no income. For when is the extension of attention to all people who have no income? By the time you publish the applications, the risk concessions, the times you delay in requesting them and grant them? How long are you going to pay for all the delay in the Risga that you pledged to do in August last year and that you're still unpaid today? Counselor, why do you in the processing of new Risga requests are excluding people who live in an apartment with several rooms with a bathroom right and only consider that this is a single home instead of considering the personal situations of those people? Why don't you publish the decree, which takes a year's delay under the law that's passed? Why are you able to only cover 30% and in Asturias, of which you speak, which publishes every month on your official page how are Risga's requests, how many are granted, how many are denied and what are delays or delays, they cover 68% when they have a lot of poverty below Galicia. For when? That's how Asturias has less poverty than Galicia and covers 68% of people who have no resources, and Galicia only covers 30%, counsellor. Stop fooling yourself. Look, it's grown so...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u460	Thank you, Mrs Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u461	...the inequality in our country...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u462	Thank you, Mrs Gallego. [[Mrs. Gallego Calvar speaks words that are not perceived.]] Time's up. [[Applause]] The work and well-being advisor, Mrs. Beatriz Mato, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u463	Thank you very much, President. I believe that Parliament is not the place to say who says or who doesn't tell the truth, because obviously the surveys are published, they have access to all the population and the rate of poverty of Asturias is higher than that of Galicia and is published on the website. But, of course, this is not the issue because the most important thing is to talk about the measures and solutions that the Government of Galicia is putting on for the people who are going through it. Today, there was a day led by the ESC, chaired by the president of the ESC, where he also participated in the Idega, chaired by Xaquín Leicega, and where union representatives, representatives of businessmen, even Caritas and, of course, EAPN and different social entities, whose theme was poverty and social inclusion. From this day to day they have raised conclusions that were three petitions that directly make to the Government of Galicia, and the first is: more political commitment, the second is: more coordination between administrations, and the third is to act directly on the causes. I had the opportunity to close this today at 2 p.m. and there I had the opportunity to guarantee the commitment of the President of Galicia in this Chamber and, of course, this adviser to this day, so there will indeed be more political commitment to the fight against social exclusion. The president has already said this morning that the budget will be increased what it takes to meet the people of social integration income who are entitled to it, we have already increased 2.4 million euros in April and we will increase what is needed. In fact, today in this autonomous community there are 16% fewer requests for social integration income than in the same period last year – I speak of applications, not of grants – 16% less requests than last year's period. Even recently we have signed an agreement with Fegamp and the Food Bank to respond to families with children during the summer, especially in the whole food chain. And, of course, we assume that conclusion and commitment to improve coordination. And even today the president in this House has once again set off what we will talk to the councils and we will talk to the deputies to give the best, most effective and more agile response to those people who are going through it. And, indeed, we have to directly attack the causes, and against the causes the best social policy is employment. And that's why we're going to develop the Social Inclusion Act, a law highly valued by all social agents and even by the organizations that work with social exclusion; a law that, in fact, is now working on its decree to put it into operation, to harmonise it with a strategy that is the Social Inclusion Strategy up to 2020, which has EUR 520 million, which is 120% more than the last inclusion strategy...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u464	Thank you very much, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u465	...and to help all those who need it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u466	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u467	Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-06-10-DSPG113.u468	We're out of order, we're up. Thank you very much and good night.
