ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-01-27-DSPG095.u1	Thank you very much. Please, ladies, take your seats. I ask the media to abandon the hemicycle. Please leave the media now. Thank you. Very good days again. The session is open. The agenda, as you know, is published in the Official Bulletin of the Parliament of Galicia, so it does not proceed with its reading. No inassistances have been justified. Agenda modification
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-01-27-DSPG095.u2	Before the development of the agenda, ladies and gentlemen, it is necessary, pursuant to Rule 73.1 of the Rules of Procedure, to propose to the plenary the amendment of the agenda for this session to include the attendance of the Health Adviser, at the request of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, which yesterday the Permanent Parliament accepted unanimously. So I understand that full acceptance can be approved by consent. [[Assentment.]] The presence of the Health Counsellor will be substantial after the presence of the President of Galicia, who is the first item on the agenda of this extraordinary plenary. So we start with the point of appearance of the President of the Council of Galicia on his own request. Mr President-in-Office of the Council of Galicia, on his own request for the adoption of Article 144 of the Rules of Procedure, to report on the measures of democratic impulse
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-01-27-DSPG095.u3	Mr. Alberto Núñez Feijóo has the floor for his speech.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-01-27-DSPG095.u4	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I come to this House to realize the new democratic momentum that we are going to develop over the next few months, and since this very Thursday, at the Council of the Union. I compare fulfilling my commitment expressed on several occasions in the past year. And I come to be the Galician Parliament, where we speak to the representatives of the people, the first place that can take reason for our intentions to further improve the democratic quality of Galicia. I believe, in that sense, that representative democracy is not in question, but if we must constantly question how we can improve it, to be closer and closer than citizens expect of us as their representatives and to leave each time a lower margin to those who intend to derail the target for which we are elected. Let me remind you of the distinction made by the German philosopher Kant between the moral politician and the political moralist. In short, one could say that what distinguishes one from the other is that moral politician sees the citizens an end, and political moralist sees them as a means for his purposes. In addition to finding that the concern about the lack of political ethics is not something unique these days, the German philosopher cites as a basic principle to address the problem the necessary existence of advertising. I mean, the need for agreements made by governments to be known to all. Well, that moral policy and transparency are some of the axes that guide the proposals I want to deal with here today. It is clear that Europe of the 18th century or the 19th century, and many are the achievements that society has achieved thanks to the consolidation of democratic states and the recognition of fundamental rights, but, unfortunately, there are still behaviors that cause some citizens to come to doubt the goodness of the system. Behaviors that, of course, need to go underground, direction to which these measures have been called democratic impulses. I compare, as I said to them, in this House fulfilling my commitment to realizing what the Galician Union has done and also what it will do to continue to fight against the presence of those people who use politics for their interests – which Kant cited – through three main lines of action: to equip the Government with maximum transparency; to achieve, at the same time, the greatest external control of that Government; and to ensure greater citizen participation in the improvement of the representative democracy system that we have given ourselves. No one can escape the fact that in recent years cases have been known, in the most diverse areas, where political action has escaped these principles. Now, the fact that these are known is proof that the control mechanisms work: from the citizen's own complaint, the complaint in the media, to the means of inspection by the governments themselves, ending in judicial action. But it's logical that they generate a remarkable disappointment among citizens, and more generally people who do public service work do it cleanly and honestly, it's normal that they ask us more. Today we know cases of politicians, individuals, companies or unions that have not worked as expected, but, I insist, if we know them is precisely because the majority of the system works and is alert to detect, to denounce, to punish irregularities. I therefore consider that it does not act fairly when it is intended to extend criticism of this type of behaviour to the whole. We must not forget that Galicia is what is now also thanks to politics and politicians. If we look back, we find examples of delivery, capacity, honesty in all positions of responsibility, in all ideologies and in all parties. There is no better proof that this model that we have given ourselves has allowed us to promote social and economic progress and integrity in political conduct. It's not therefore the democratic model that fails, but partial aspects that demand a proper response. The phrase that best defines the Spanish transition is due to its main architect, President Suárez: raising to the political category of normal what the street level is fully normal. The most associated word to Galicia's first president, Fernández Albor, was sweet. These are two good support to strengthen our commitment to this democratic impulse. Today, the level of moral and ethical need is higher than ever. That's why we are surprised and indignant that there are still people who try to take advantage of the weaknesses of the system. These kinds of people have always existed and will continue to exist, but this should not be excused; that's why we are given a very clear task: trying to reduce those weaknesses of the system, and, in case we don't get it in all the assumptions, that they have the corresponding punishment. Now they touch us, ultimately, by repeating the phrases of Suárez and Albor, raising to the political category of normal the disquieting of people by the alienation of institutions and the cases of corruption, and giving them careful response, preserving as much as is right and fixing, no doubt, what is wrong. Before I continue, I want to make it clear from the beginning that I would not like this appearance to become a useless exercise of "and you more", to which we have sadly reduced on more than one occasion this kind of debate. For my part, it won't be so, this audience won't take that path. This appearance does not intend to be a rosary of accusations, or a chain of justifications, or a succession of interpellations or interpretations of judicial decisions in one sense or another, because corrupts, lords, occupy or act or can act in all parties, but in reality they are not of any party. Experience shows enough that there is no acronym or ideology that immunizes against immoral, even clearly criminal behavior. So it's wrong to pose this debate as a dispute between parties, not as a common action of all democratic parties against the corrupt. I believe, therefore, that it would be up to us all to take a conscientious examination and apologize. I'm sorry to the citizen for not being often at the height of the circumstances. Sometimes for trusting people who didn't deserve trust; other times for not being able to exercise stronger control over many matters, and many others for abusing generalization and seeing corruption as an exclusive problem of the political adversary. For the part that affects the Union and the party I belong to, I and the rest of the Government have talked about, we have clarified concepts and we have assumed responsibilities when I played. This appearance, for my part, wants to be and will be an appearance of proposals. And, made this clarification statement, I return to my initial idea to say that the proposals that are going to be heard here are going in the sense of what we've been applying since we arrived at the Government in April 2009: more tools to ensure the ethical commitment of governments and more control and transparency of the Government's action. Since 2009, those two aspects have guided our performance. Now it's not about taking a thorough analysis of each and every one of the measures we've taken, I'll quote only a few that corroborate, beyond the words, that this board is responding and has responded with facts. First of all, in the field of ethics and the honorability of senior positions and the personnel of the autonomous administration. In 2011 we made the decision to make public the declarations of assets of the members of the Galician Union, a practice that was subsequently armoured with the rank of law in Law 14/2013, of rationalization of the public sector. I myself was the first president of the board to make public his personal income tax statements. In 2011, we approved the basic criteria for regulating, for the first time in the German Autonomy, official travel outside the office of the Autonomous Administration. In 2012, the salaries of the executive staff of the autonomous public sector instrumental bodies were approved and published, setting maximum levels according to the type of agency. And last July 24, 2014 we approved the first institutional ethical code of the Galician Union; a manual that regulates and condenses into a single document the basic criteria of conduct and professional responsibility in the area of the Galician Autonomic Administration. The second fact block refers to the quality of the administration's services, such as a 50% reduction in the number of high charges, a reduction in potential staff, a reduction in official cars or lower current expenditure. Or like the Law on Quality Assurance of Public Services – in the process in this House – so for the first time citizens are recognized a number of rights in their relations with the Administration and control mechanisms are collected to ensure those rights. In fact, it sets minimum standards of quality, which will be public, and make it easier for the user to complain if they fail, and it blocks the process of evaluation of public services, by engaging in citizenship. For example, as facts, the three plans to evaluate, restructure and optimize the functioning of the Instrumental Administration dependent on the Union, with adjustment, suppression or improvement measures of operation over 160 dependent entities. So far, more than 65 people have been eliminated depending on the Galician Union. The third block of transparency measures, approved and already in force, refers to the issue of recruitment. The Law on the Rationalization of the Public Sector has halved the direct taxation accounts for smaller contracts; from €50,000 to €25,000 in works and from €18,000 to €9,000 in services. We are the public administration with less capacity for direct state work adjudications. Last December we ensure that procedures negotiated and initiated by the Board are also the most transparent of public administrations, so that companies can know the bids of competitors to achieve better prices before final taxation. In addition, we want to provide greater transparency to our relationship with the suppliers of the Galician board through the electronic billing system; a system that allows us not only to be more agile in payment, but also to reduce the discretionary margin when carrying them out. And we also regulate Galicia's public procurement platform, which allowed contractors, citizens and citizens to make available all the information and documentation on tenders submitted to contract regulations. The fourth block of measures already in force refers to transparency and access to information and citizen participation. We have made it more accessible to the Guide to Procedures and Services, thanks to the empowerment of new technologies. This guide currently provides information of more than 1,500 administrative procedures. And besides, until today around 800 of these administrative procedures allow them to be presented electronically, to avoid the displacement of citizens. We also implemented the Open Data initiative, open data from the Galician Union, and made public the sector's information available in open standard formats, facilitating all access to it as its reuse. These are, ladies and gentlemen, some of the facts that summarize part of the actions we've been developing in recent years to make the Board a more responsible and clear administration. But we are aware that more reforms are still needed in those countries, and it is more necessary than ever to try to find common points to achieve greater momentum for democracy in Galicia. I'm going to focus on what we're going to do from now on in Galicia, but I can't help but remember that there are certain actions that fall out of our field of competence and that are being discussed, regulated and approved in the General Courts at central government instances. The president himself of the Government of Spain appeared at the end of last year 2014 at the Congress of Deputies. At this meeting, there was talk of measures to control the economic and financial activities of political parties, also of control of the activity of the high offices of the General Administration of the State, and also of criminal and procedural measures in the fight against corruption. For the first time, consider the illegal financing of parties as a crime, also exacerbate the penalties for disability and increase the time limits for the prescription of anti-corruption offences. As I say, all this is being discussed in the General Courts. The government has already made it clear that these are measures that will end up being implemented. Obviously, I agree with the President of the Government of Spain in wishing those measures to be approved with the highest degree of consensus possible, but at the same time I also agree with the idea that the search for a consensus, when one of the parties has no desire to consent, cannot be excused for adjournment for any longer. And I also think that here, in Galicia, we can't keep on making decisions either. Since last October, coincidentally with the Autonomy State Debate, there are a number of proposals on the table that I believe need to be put into effect in the short term. On that basis of proposals, I think it's up to us to keep working. As I said, this wants to be an appearance of proposals, and I will refer to these proposals from now on. I recall that in this October 2014 debate, both the majority parliamentary group and the Socialist Group voted together to address a number of measures that gathered some ideas and proposals from the non-permanent Commission for the development of a plan to prevent and eradicate political corruption. In particular, among the motions for resolutions adopted in this House four months ago, there was one that meant giving impetus to initiatives in the wake of the Government, Parliament and political parties. In the field of government, initiatives have been approved in this House to improve the transparency of negotiated procedures, which have already been put in place; limitation of the capacity of government to act in functions; regulation of power transfer processes; and a new obligation to inhibit high positions for matters affecting the interests of businesses where they or family members were part of decision-making bodies in the two years prior to appointment. In Parliament, we proposed and voted in this House to reform the Council of Auditors Act to give it powers to prevent political corruption. And there were also measures in the field of political parties, such as an agreement for the financing of the parties, restricting the funds made in public budgets and the comings of their affiliates and offices. A position favourable to the change of organic law – LOREG – for the reduction of election campaigns to 7 days or the limitation of spaces enabled to advertise and promote contrast of ideas and debates also in the media. Subsequently, and on the basis of these parliamentary agreements adopted between the two groups, the majority of the House and the majority of the opposition, a starting document of 35 proposals was prepared, which I handed to the Secretary-General of the Socialist Party of Galicia at the meeting held with him last November 5. So far we have received no reply, beyond some statements by members of that party not exactly conducive to the agreement. At this point, it emerges, therefore, the need to finish the work. With the same will of consensus, and therefore fulfilling our commitments, we have come here today to take account of the measures we want to adopt over the next few months, so that a new overview of the legislation against corrupt acts within the autonomous Community is completed. I want to tell you, in short, about a programme of democratic impulse measures that includes the actions we intend to take this year in different areas. It will be a set of measures that will be in line with what we have already adopted in this Parliament, designed to cover three main areas of action: the actions of the Government, the external control of that government, and the capacity to participate in citizenship, both individually and through better regulation of the functioning of political parties. With regard to the first of these matters, government policy measures, to inform you that this Thursday, the Council of the Union will approve the measures included in this programme of democratic impulses most closely linked to the Government and the Administration. These are measures that we intend to have better instruments to facilitate the Government's follow-up and control tasks, which ultimately make the emergence of corrupt practices difficult. The program includes actions in many areas, which can be grouped into two main lines: the momentum of transparency and greater demands of public ethics. As to the momentum of transparency, from a new law of Galicia and its developments, first of all; from the establishment of a government transparency portal open to Galicia, secondly; and from the reinforcement of the Open Date portal. And as for the greater demands of public ethics, with a part dedicated to good government in the Transparency Act, and with a follow-up of ethical code and with new demands for the performance of high office. These large lines will give rise to 12 axes, with different concrete measures in each. But allow me now to focus only on those whom I consider most significant, regardless of whether in the reply or in the coming days we can clarify and develop more often each of the measures that we contemplate. In this sense, I would like to mention some important aspects. The drafting and processing of the draft law of a new Law on the Management of Legal Assistance from the General Administration of the Autonomous Community and the Public Sector, the first legal measure. A law that will clarify precisely what are the cases where an employee or public authority may receive legal assistance from the Administration. In this way, it is made sure that, in no case, a person who was guilty of the crime of being accused of seeing his defence paid with the taxpayer's money. Secondly, the momentum and follow-up of the measures provided for in the institutional ethical code of the Galician Union. Thirdly, the launch of a plan to redeploy self-government personnel to strengthen units dedicated to control and inspection to detect fraud, particularly in the area of grants and scholarships, as was also adopted in a resolution of the Autonomy State Debate. And fourthly, the establishment of legal and legal security control mechanisms in the local eido, which we will try to agree with the Galician Federation of Municipalities and Provinces. These are some of the axes that are included in the program that we will study next Thursday, January 29th, at the board of assembly. But I want to focus a little more closely on the axis that I consider to be most transcendent: I refer to the new law of transparency and good government. As you know, there is a law of state transparency and a law of Galicia, Law 4/2006, transparency and good practice, driven by the two-party government and approved by the popular party vote in Galicia. But we want to take this opportunity to draw up a new text, a law that allows us to move more forward and be even more demanding than the state law and that the law of the previous Government. We want it to be also a law shared by everyone who wants it. In fact, we want citizens to be able to make proposals and include them in the law, and thus try to achieve the development of a bill as consensual as possible for their subsequent parliamentary processing. So in the coming days we will open a forum of transparency and citizen participation on the new law of transparency. There, everything you want will be able to do your approaches, with proposals that will be studied to set the best possible text. [[Applause]] Let's hope that in March you can begin this pre-draft process of transparency law, which will pick up suggestions from the citizen forum. We believe, in any event, that this law must first establish, among other tasks, the definitions of transparency; we must also lay down the obligation to provide information by the persons of the Administration, but also to entities engaged in the Administration; and also to entities receiving grants from the Administration. Also regulate the right of access to public information or define what will be the transparency monitoring and control body, which will be an independent and autonomous organ. But this law must also lay down rules of good governance, and we want it to go beyond what is being established in the General Administration of the State as measures. For example, by setting for the first time the limits of government action in functions; that is, those governments that end their mandate from the day after the election result. A government in office may not present bills or authorize agreements, nor agree with the State and other autonomous communities, nor approve calls for the provision of jobs, nor approve employment relations, nor acquire spending commitments except for current spending constraints. We also want to regulate, for the first time and by law, the transfer of powers, which obliges us to leave a management report in which there is a record of a series of minimum content between the Government that goes and the Government that the people bring: Vigilant agreements, budgetary execution, commitments assumed, judicial actions in which it is a party, obligations pending payment... All this must count on the report that is delivered to the incoming Government. We also want the consolidation by law that there is an institutional ethical code that forces all the governments of the Union of Galicia, and that, of course, it also forces all high office, and that they have to assume it at the very moment of their taking possession. In addition, with regard to high-level regulatory measures, we want to collect and expand some that are already applied in the General Administration of the State to ensure maximum citizen control over the performance of high-level positions. That's why there'll be a control of high office activity before entering the government; there will be a control during the exercise of the functions they have, and there will be a control after they have completed their task as high office. There will therefore be greater control over his activity before entering the Government, for the high office will be obliged to disregard matters affecting companies in which he had held executive positions in the two years prior to his appointment. But in addition, this activity over the previous two years must be recorded in its declaration of public activities to ensure that citizenship has a record of the links of all public offices. There will also be greater control over their activities during the high office; there will also be a ban on more than 10 per cent participation not only in government contractors but also in government subcontractors. And also greater supervision of his activity after his departure, because he's designated a body responsible for reviewing changes in his estate to see if they're justified. In addition, we will make it an obligation that during the two years in which it is affected by the Incompatibilities Act it will have to declare that high post already ceased, in the Office of Incompatibilities, in character prior to any activity it intends to undertake; this office will verify whether or not it complies with the rules of incompatibility. Finally, this law must also regulate the Transparency Web Portal so that the basic principles of accessibility, interoperability, quality and reuse of published information are guaranteed. Allow me to stop at this transparency portal a little more, because that's one aspect we also want to go beyond what we've already done in previous years and what the state legislation requires. So in this portal we increase the transparency of our institutional administration, increase the transparency of the legislative action of the Government, increase the transparency of public services, increase the transparency of public employees, increase the transparency of the heritage of the Autonomous Community, increase the transparency of our public accounts, increase the transparency of urban activities and increase the transparency of the contractual and conventional activity of the Council of Galicia. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, the transparency of the institutional administration will be increased because we will now legally force you to have published on the website the total inventory of entities, the salaries of your executive staff and the contents of your program contracts and action plans. We will increase the transparency of the Government's legislative action because it will be mandatory to publish the Government's legislative program so that administrators can predict future policy changes; and we will also publish texts of the judicial resolutions that affect the supervision or interpretation of existing standards. We will increase the transparency of public services because we will have to publish all the requirements of conditions, not only of contracts, but of the concessions of public services, which the Council of Galicia makes. We will increase the transparency of public employees. We will now legally be required to publish the total picture of public employees, their distribution by groups, the working conditions of collective agreements, public job offers, staff selection processes and union release and their costs. We will increase the transparency of the heritage of the Autonomous Community. We will now be forced to publish the relationship between real estate and official autonomic public vehicles. We will increase the transparency of our public accounts, and all information on public debt, its evolution and statistical indicators will be published. And we will increase transparency in urban activity because they will now be published, and they will be at the disposal of citizenship, all general municipal management plans and their modifications and revisions. And we will increase the contractual and conventional activity of the Union, compromising that in the development of this new law there is the renewal of the decree of registration of conventions, to increase the possibility of consulting the citizen and regulating new technological features. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, the new law of transparency of the Government will be a very demanding law, but above all what it wants to be is a law of all and for all. Not only from the groups represented here, but from all citizenship, to which, of course, I invite you to participate in the forum that will be opened to collect your opinions. From all of the above, it turns out that we're going to have a more transparent administration, but we want, in addition, to be a more externally controlled administration. It must be remembered, in this sense, that the existence of a greater social demand for transparency and control over the management of public funds advises an update of the old regulatory rule of the Board of Auditors, to strengthen this control body. We want to provide the Board of Auditors with new functions, both in the area of auditing and control of accounts and in the prevention of corruption, as we commit ourselves to the debate in the state of Autonomy. We believe, moreover, that this is also a way to strengthen the institutional framework and thus continue to strengthen our self-government. We have done so, updating the composition and role of the Consultative Council, with the new law passed last year, which for the first time has been and will be this Parliament which proposes almost half of its members. And so we want to continue to do so now in the case of the Board of Auditors, granting this body, created by the Statute of Self-Government, a more consistent role of current need for control. Since then, we have considered that the best way to define these new powers of the Board of Auditors is by a law that comes from the very body responsible for receiving reports from the council, that is, from Parliament directly. That's why from the majority group in the House, a bill from the Board of Auditors will be presented, so that we can be debated here and try to find consensus. In any case, this bill – in our opinion – should contemplate a number of aspects. First, it is the responsibility of the Anti-Corruption Board of Auditors to establish a section to develop risk plans, to prevent corruption, to collaborate with the Greek administrations in the development of internal standards on the prevention of these risks and to advise Parliament, the autonomous public sector and the local authorities of Greece on the prevention of corruption. It also enhances the performance of operational audits and their personal auditors. I urge the People's Group to present the corresponding text for its debate with the rest of the groups, which will, of course, be open to all suggestions and improvements that are deemed appropriate through the corresponding amendments. We are open to dialogue, and I trust that among all of us we can have a new law of the Board of Auditors adopted in this first session of this year 2015. Finally, I would like to mention the aspects linked to the participation of citizenship in politics, and I would do so in a twofold way: that of participation through political parties and that of direct participation through the new avenues for access to information and the preparation of proposals in this Parliament. The traditional way of political participation of citizens in our society, and in all Western societies, articulates mainly through democratic political parties. In this sense, they are those who think that representative democracy and parties are two elements that go hand in hand, and the existence of one is not possible without the other or vice versa. That is why it hurts us all and outrages us that behaviors are produced that escape their key role in the configuration and development of democratic societies. Unfortunately, recent developments have shown that there are gaps in the legal framework that regulates the financing of political parties; fissures that can be taken advantage of by a few, well for their personal profit, well to look for ways of financing irregularly. So on more than one occasion, in recent years, I have expressed myself about the desirability of making a deep reflection on the reform of the political party financing system. I did so two years ago, in January 2013, when I said, "It's necessary to change the financing law of the parties, so it's also in October 2013, when I said, "I'm in favour of not allowing parties to offer prayers." Also in the debate of the state of Autonomy, on October 7, 2014, and I asked the Secretary General of the PSdeG-PSOE at our meeting on November 5. In view of these considerations, I believe that we are working accordingly when we decided to request the Advisory Council to draw up a text which would serve as a preliminary draft law for the financing of political parties in Galicia in the field of our powers. This text should include, in our opinion, the prohibition of parties' prayers by legal persons, and the establishment of additional transparency measures as provided for in the State basic legislation. We hope that in the next few days we will receive this text, and from then on it will begin its process to be approved the corresponding bill by the Board of Trustees, and subsequently be sent to this Parliament in the period of sessions that will begin. [[Applause]] I think society is asking us to be able to be able to be united by maximum transparency, also by maximum publicity, in the resources that touch us to handle democratic political parties. So it's a matter that's important enough to get us the chance to come to an agreement, if you're all right with your ladies. If we are able to reach agreements on that issue, I think it will be even easier to agree on the possibility of offering citizen participation, both in the legislative activity and in the drive and control of administrations. As you know, this parliament has adopted a new standard for regulating popular legislative initiatives, and we want to keep moving on with this idea. We believe that it is appropriate to have a rule that will allow the various ways of participation in parliamentary activity to be regulated; both the existing ones and other new ones that can be incorporated. I therefore anticipate that the group of which I am a party will present a text that will allow both popular legislative initiatives to be regulated and the possibility of presenting non-law proposals by citizens, or the possibility that citizens may ask questions addressed to the Government that groups can assume for their processing if they consider it appropriate. [[Applause]] In addition, this text will incorporate a regulation that can provide greater guarantees of control and serves as an incentive for existing initiatives, such as Lexisla with us, a step taken by the Presidency of Parliament and which enables individuals to come closer to them during the processing of legislative projects to be known and valued in the corresponding presentations. In short, ladies and gentlemen, I have just told you of more internal control in governments, of more external control by the Board of Auditors towards governments, of greater regulation of the direct participation of citizens and of better guarantees in the financing of public services. I have therefore just presented a programme of democratic impulse that includes, throughout this year, the introduction of five laws: a new law on transparency of the Government, a law on legal aid management, a new law on the Board of Auditors, a law on the financing of political parties and a law on citizen participation in Parliament. And the development, ladies and gentlemen, of 50 measures, many of them mentioned today, most of them in this audience. [[Applause]] As for the deadlines for implementing these 50 measures, we are committed to the submission of texts for parliamentary processing in the next 50 days. I have just talked about the measures that we are going to take in the next few months, and that today I wanted to share with you by fulfilling my commitment. I wanted to do this because I would like the measures envisaged, and especially those involving legal changes, to be approved by all of you. That'll be my commitment, and I'm convinced that the majority group of the House will do the same. I sincerely believe that this is what citizenship demands of us, that we try to build a better democracy and put the hard things that they want to take advantage of. People won't tolerate passivity, but they won't ask us to put out a local fire irrigating gasoline. All those who believe in politics as a noble public service task have an obligation to provide ourselves with resources that will enable us to fulfill our duty properly and prevent anyone from entering here for other interests. It's not enough that we censor illegitimate behaviors or that we fight their demagogy with more demagogy. And it's a lot less of a good thing that we divide energies between ourselves while questioning politics as a whole. Either we all work together to restore the citizen's trust, or we'll all continue to suffer the evil that they pay just for sinners. The challenge, ladies and gentlemen, at this point in the 21st century, is to restore the bridges that connect us with citizenship and break those that facilitate the work of the undesirables. [[Applause]] This must be everyone's job, so I'd like to count on you in this task. Democracy has been, is, and will continue to be, a responsibility of all. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-01-27-DSPG095.u5	Thank you very much. Round of parliamentary groups. For the Mixed Group, ladies and gentlemen Martínez and Churches. You have the floor, first of all, Mrs Iglesias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-01-27-DSPG095.u6	Good morning, everyone. Thank you very much, Madam President. We were expecting that triumphal speech, and above all electoralist, because you are very predictable, Mr. President. Democratic impulse? Electoralist impulse, image-washed and free propaganda. It is all over the state that it is given this of the democratic impulse. I read in the press that in all the autonomy where the People's Party governs, since they had the congress this, of course, they're worried and they want to do a face wash. More and more people are suspicious of politics, unfortunately. If abstaining people add up to those who vote for inertia, we'll find that only a very small minority trusts those people who vote for it. It's too bad! The discredit of politicians is almost like a topic, of so generalized that it is. The politicians consider this Member very necessary. A country needs decent and competent people to rule it. Without a doubt, one of the causes that led us to this disaffect and description in the political class is what you just practiced in this Chamber: electoralism. That is, the tendency of many politicians to prioritize the kind of measures they think will give them a vote. And prioritize them over what are really necessary. This trend implies that if we avoid taking measures that, while still necessary, by giving their long-term fruit, they are not well-off for them, not being able to re-establish them electorally. A country weakens to the point of throwing it down to crises of all kinds when its governors lie in their electoral programs. In this you are experts, for fear of being punished in the polls. But he's already started the countdown: tic, tac, tic, tac. From that perspective, electoralism is a cancer for the good government of a country, and it is also for the quality of the democratic system, by converting politics into an exercise of pretense and misrepresentation of reality that comes to the extreme that we end up seeing as normal that politicians hide everything that doesn't suit their electoral interests. We have the example in the President of the State, who always makes statements. And also electoralism is incompatible with transparency and with regard to citizenship, because it makes the politician treat us as ignorant and childish, so that with electoralism politics becomes a display of marketing, photos and shocking phrases, where it's far more important to know how to elude the questions committed and to deal loosely with an ambiguous and empty discourse of content that tells things as they are. You're a master also in the art of political chess. In this simulation and manipulation game, media are also largely responsible. Journalists and media owners are too often complicit in the transmission of lies and in the formation of a public opinion limited to a partial and superficial vision of reality. Affected by these journalists and media owners to effectors and impactors, they contribute decisively, in many cases, to a state of opinion based on simplification to extreme caricatures. No one believes it, neither to you nor to your intentions of democratic impulse. Only the means of the regime and the orchestrated choir of his party give credence to his words. Citizenship is tired, impoverished, and distrustful. Tick, knock. Be careful, Mr. Feijóo, when you take that impulse back and throw forward, don't stand against a wall of indignation, because what the citizen really cares about is that one out of four children is hungry or undernourished; one out of four adults is in exclusion or at risk of exclusion; half of the long-term unemployed and unemployed have no income and live from those who can help them, which are the demanding pensions valued at 1.05% with this government reform at the coup d'decres. And I will leave the other measures which this honourable Member considers urgent for my second intervention. Cheers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-01-27-DSPG095.u7	Good morning to all and to all. Mr President, today you are talking about measures of democratic impulse in an attempt to clean up the People's Party of all its own and systemic corruption and to pervert democratic institutions. He was talking about citizen participation now, when you recently took a popular legislative initiative from Lugo about hemodynamics and destroyed it; they made it something completely different. That's not citizen participation. It cannot be claimed that the People's Party is a corrupt party, but the fact is that cases accumulate in the courts and cause corruption in the People's Party not to be timely; it affects the whole Spanish geography, and, over time, there are hundreds of politicians of the People's Party under suspicion of corruption, from small people's conciliators to community presidents. Of the last 34 years in Galicia, 27 ruled the People's Party, creating corrupt networks and plots that create a structural problem. We have operation Pokemon, Orchestra, Patos, King, Muralla, Zeta, in addition to many other charges for corruption against Welsh politicians. Thus, 80 Greek political charges are being prosecuted for corruption and administrative irregularities. Urban affairs, recruitment, electoral crimes, are some of the duties of dozens of Welsh politicians of the People's Party. Some of them are still in office, some in this Parliament. One in nine mayors face at the end of their term of office a judicial imputation lax; 35 PP mayors – 21 are involved in corruption cases, and only 8 have to do with major operations such as Pokemon or Orchestra. 7 mayors are charged for prevarication, 11 for adjudication to third parties and contracts, trafficking in influences, insults, revelation of secrets, disobedience to authority, misappropriation of funds. And we can go on. They're the charges against mayors of the People's Party. We still have no explanation for the opaque prayers of the Galician People's Party registered in 2006 by Bárcenas, which account for more than 1.8 million euros for companies that have millionaire contracts in Galicia, such as FCC, Entrecanales, and like not!, Copasa, who is again immersed in a dark cause in relation to the highway of the Costa da Morte. But Copasa also has 19 other works in Galicia. There are also mayors who do the apologetics of franchiseism without this having consequences. Or the president himself, who has refused to explain his relationship with the Golden Martial drug dealer. But there are more illegalities, such as at the Health Council, which carries the large pearl, for example, with the coffee shop at the Mexoeiro hospital; a coffee shop that was granted to OH Vigo without a set of conditions and which assumed MACONSI's debt. And now OH owes him to the hospital, to the Tax Agency, to the Treasury, to the Fairy, to the suppliers, to the workers, to the redundancies. And yet the board looks elsewhere and takes no initiative to change this situation. But let's talk about Povervisa. He just signed a letter concert for his friends in Povervisa, for whom he worked, of course, favoring that, after signing a concert with the same president of the Union, he recognizes that there is no company in Galicia that has a concert for so long and so stable and that that would provide stability. There are 56 redundancies, the destruction of jobs, the elimination of categories, and it turns out that both the president and the council say there's nothing we can do. That's corruption, that's allowing private companies to do business with something as important as health, justified by the president of the board and justified by the health advisor. So it's not you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-01-27-DSPG095.u8	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-01-27-DSPG095.u9	... –I have finished, Madam President, thank you – who can neither speak of transparency nor measures of democratic impulse. To start talking about democratic impulse measures, you have to start by driving all corrupt people out of your party, all those who were aware of the People's Party's B box, starting with the President of the Government of Spain. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-01-27-DSPG095.u10	Thank you very much, Mrs. Martínez. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. Mr. Jorquera Caselas has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-01-27-DSPG095.u11	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Feijóo, he'll end up showing you through a plasma screen, he didn't miss it. They promise that we can put forward motions for resolutions, and I have in this ten-minute debate the same time as to defend a non-law proposal. Is that not a democratic impulse for you? In claiming to use this Parliament as a TV set and Members as members? But look, coming into matter. Once I asked you a question called the full question, and today I ask you again, Mr. Feijóo. Because you've committed yourself to coming in to talk about corruption and now it's over points. He talked about abstract corruption not to talk about the very concrete corruption of his party. He just wanted to emulate Rajoy on this issue too, saying that of those cases, yes. Look, I'm not a maniac, I don't think decency depends on the color of the sheep, but to fight corruption it's necessary to act hard at the slightest hint, and you don't. You sacrificed the head of Sogama's director so he wouldn't interfere in this debate, the same thing Rajoy did with Ana Mato, but that's not his norm, his rule is to say, if strong. Just like Rajoy. For example, in the face of the illegal funding scandals that spark the PP, all the data indicate that the Galician People's Party is a central piece, but you prefer the messenger to be killed, as they did with the Popular Party manager in Ourense, instead of clearing responsibility. For example, before the endless list of accused of the People's Party of Galicia: "I only respond to my actions," he said in an interview published yesterday. But forget he's also president of the Galician People's Party. I'd rather look elsewhere than take on your responsibilities. Or, for example, in rendering accounts of their dangerous friendships with Martial Dorada or Pachi Lucas. The Greek society is still waiting for convincing explanations. Mr. Feijó, the fight against corruption is not preached, it is practiced. And from you, apparently up until now, you can't expect a bad word, but not a good work either. What is transparency and democratic impulse for you? To propose in the opposition that each group could promote two research committees in each legislation, and now veto an investigation commission for training courses? Is the theatre Parliament used for its face-washing, while it has been paralysed for a year and a half ago by the Commission to study anti-corruption measures? Look, your proposals are smoke. Announce what you're going to do to cover what you're not doing. Announces a new Transparency Law to cover that you are not respecting the Vigilant Transparency Law. Mr. Feijó, there's a saying, "You can't get the fox to look after the chicken." The first thing you have to do to make your proposals credible is fight corruption in practice, and you don't. The phenomena of corruption that we are suffering have causes that go far beyond the human condition, of angry and reprehensible individual behaviors. Corruption in the Spanish State, as in the European Union, is a structural problem; there is systemic corruption as a result of a given power scheme. Look, corruption is to use the crisis to suck down and fatten those from above, or to demortize the public heritage and hand it over to private lobbies. Corruption is that Mr. Juncker negotiates hiding with multinationals to use Luxembourg as a tax haven. Corruption is that Mr. Bárcenas is on the street as you set up the viable lifeline. Corruption is to legislate in favor of electricity when people don't have to pay for light, and then sit on their board of directors. The great corruption, Mr Feijóo, is the mechanism that uses economic power to influence public decisions for your benefit. Corruption is that big companies finance some parties instead of these governments for them. That systemic corruption we are talking about, Mr Feijóo, has to do with plutocracy, with the political transmission of the interests of economic elites. And to end that scourge, there is a need for a radical change in policies and measures that attack the heart of the problem. With proposals such as those we will give you – I anticipate it – to shield the services and public policies of the interests of the major economic pressure groups. Or to put an end to the privatization of public services, which creates the broth of cultivation, so that the trade in influences can spread to their broads. Mr. Feijóo, are you willing to initiate a process of revision and reversal of all the services dependent on the Board that are subject to privatized or indirect management? No, right, right? Are you willing to rescue the grant of the highway from the Coast of Death instead of modifying it to benefit a company at the expense of public interest? Isn't that right, Mr. Feijóo? Well, with practice like that, it's what needs to be done with. But in addition, there are concrete proposals that would allow a more effective fight against corruption. Are you willing to promote the review of legislation on incompatibilities to avoid the confluence and influence of private interests in public management and end up with the shame of turning doors? yes or no? Are you prepared to extend to private entities which manage public services the rules applicable to the public sector?, to create public inspectors' squares to review and control the fulfilment of contracts?, yes or no, Mr Feijóo? Are you willing to demand the tightening of the criminal punishment for persons involved in corruption crimes?, to demand that they be unable to benefit from pardons, except for reasons of humanitarian urgency?, to demand that they have to respond to their property?, do they not expire the actions for the full compensation of the damage caused to the public era?, yes or no? Will you propose the elimination of public procurement practices that carry implicit processes negotiated without advertising, establishing, that is, mechanisms for valuing elements such as job creation at the local or Welsh level? Did you say yes or no? Are you prepared to regulate, on the basis of independence, publicity, competition and transparency, relations and assistance to the private media, yes or no, Mr Feijóo? Are you prepared to ensure compliance with the requirements of the Transparency Act before we are notified of a new law, in particular with regard to any staff, office, technical assistance, protocol and presidential expenditure? Yes or no, Mr Feijóo? Is there going to be an improvement in the justice administration's media for the pursuit of corruption? Are you going to demand the prohibition of the parties' prayers, not only of legal persons, but also of natural persons who exercise leadership power in companies which have political decision-making activity, yes or no, Mr Feijóo? If we talk about democratic impulse, answer a question: are you willing to refuse to unilaterally modify, and to your benefit, the electoral law? yes or no? If we talk about democratic participation, is your party willing to promote a reform of the regulation to strengthen its role of control and impulse to the Government, making this Parliament a more agile, democratic and participatory institution? Are you also willing to hold popular consultations? Yes or no, Mr Feijóo? Are you willing to amend the law of CRTVG to ensure its plurality and independence, making it impossible for you to exercise the systematic governmental instrumentation, yes or no, Mr Feijóo? Are you willing, if we speak of saving money in electoral expenses, to which mailing is prohibited, mass postal shipment; and, yes, to defend that a greater and more equitable presence of all political forces in the public media is guaranteed? yes or no, Mr Feijóo? Look, Mr. Feijóo, as I told you earlier, you come here with a cut of proposals that are smoke, proposals that aim to announce what you're going to do to justify what you're not doing. And in view of that, there are concrete proposals that would allow a more effective fight against corruption, as much as there is structural corruption, systemic corruption, which can only be fought by a model change. You did not have the courtesy, before this debate, of providing your proposals to the various parliamentary groups that make up this House; I will, however, deliver them now and also to the President, Mr Feijóo, also to the President. Because, even if you came to this Parliament to report as if we were invited by stone, I would like to remind you that Parliament is the central institution of democracy, that this Parliament is the central institution of our self-government. So it is up to this Parliament not to act here as a mere theatre to listen to its propaganda operations, but to decide what measures are really necessary to fight against corruption and for democratic regeneration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-01-27-DSPG095.u12	Thank you very much, Mr. Jorquera. Mr Beiras Torrado has the floor by the Parliamentary Group of the Gaga de Left Alternative.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-01-27-DSPG095.u13	Ladies and gentlemen. Go away, Mr. Núñez! Is that him? Do you have any memory of that? Now that we're watching the return of the Aznar jet, that invective should be very careful, right? You could also transfer it to Mr. Rajoy: go, Mr. Rajoy!, go, you son of a bitch! Remember? It was a situation where the last government presided over by Felipe González was involved in everything, a series of scandals, corruption, around the party... the Roldán case, and so on. Well, I have a certain memory, but I think that in that situation Mr. González did not commit the indignity that you just committed here, above all go to the Courts in the middle of it – as you do here in this House and how Mr. Rajoy does in the Courts – and stand up as referee of political ethics, of reform of irreformable. If you want to give a democratic boost, go away, Mr. Núñez!, as Mr. Aznar had claimed that Mr. González had done. Or is corruption in other worlds, if they're other protagonists, it's a scandal, and if it's you? What about that picture of the bull market in Pontevedra, where you are with Mr. Rajoy and some other gentlemen, and stand up that individual who spends the night as in the Mili – or overnight – in his home, not personal property, but residence of the Presidency of the Council of Galicia? A person who may have the nerve to get here even and tell us to the opposition that all we need is to make a coalition with Martial Golden, when he was on his yacht and was a friend, and it turns out there was snow, but we don't know what snow, we don't know whether it was flour or what they call flour in Gringoland. And you raise yourself as a referee of democratic ethics and quote Emmanuel Kant. Oh, by the way, now I'm not the only one who seems to confuse this with college, except you wrote it. I write my things. I read. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Yes, I was proud of you... to proclaim by all the pores an absolutely inconceivable sovereignty. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] The democratic action he could do would actually be to comply with the electoral commitments. You came here to talk, by the way, about impulse measures or democratic impulses; you didn't talk about democracy at all, only about corruption. And corruption, when given in a regime, in a society, which practises democracy in a reasonable way, becomes isolated cases. When it comes not to people, but to a real mafia, when corruption is in a whole party, there are judicial actions, judicial documents, which claim that the history of Gürtel and all that was an illicit criminal association of the People's Party with people who were going to collect money, it's the People's Party! and you know it very well. And don't look like poker because it doesn't matter. I don't come here to play poker, do you understand? You can set face to cynic, poker face, face to face than you want, but you don't fool people anymore. He didn't talk about any democratic impulse, just corruption. Corruption, when it reaches its current levels, is a system of power, is analyzed sociologically. The problem is, it's a system of power that's involved in a political regime that ended up broken down and corrupt in itself. And you come here as a doctor who in the age of antibiotics to a sick person of an infectious disease, instead of antibiotics, applied to him bismas – I translate it: cataplasms. That's what you're doing. His appearance, on the other hand, is a true Freudian lapsus. It turns out you know very well that they're not going to rule anymore and you want to try to leave them to those who come to the controls you've refused to systematically submit to, right? That's what happens. They say: since we're going to go, see if we leave the thing... like that of late-franquism: leave everything tied up and well tied up. Do you think I'm Franco? No, look, you don't even get to the soles of your shoes, even though they're your children. You don't have moral or ethical legitimacy to stand up as a referee of political ethics here, and therefore your appearance is more of an act of indecency, it's an act of chirigating this Parliament. I totally take the speech of the spokesman of the Galician Nationalist Block and I won't repeat things he has already said, but I just want to tell you a couple of very specific things. Corruption begins with the systematic violation of the Constitution that you practice; it begins there. Corruption continues to do exactly the opposite, when you reach the Government, of what you committed to do with the voters in the election campaign, signing a trust agreement you've already violated before you started ruling. Like Mr. Rajoy, who has no more to see what he was saying in the 2011 campaign and after less than two months he was already in the Courts approving laws contrary to all they promised, laws that violated their own Constitution, and that, of course, they were not prepared in 15 days, they were already prepared. In that area, I just want to remind you now in the Constitution of some rules that you have consistently violated and reduced to ashes. Specifically, the preliminary title and first title are actually derogated. If you want democratic impulse, tell the leaders of your party to use their absolute majority in the courts to repeal laws that they have just done, to violate the Constitution, and to restore laws in accordance with constitutional principles. And I'm just going to read to you some, specifically Chapter III of Title I, which are the guiding principles of social and economic policy. 39.1: Public authorities ensure the social, economic and legal protection of the family. You've seen it! Tell the citizens in the open forums, tell them in the squares. Article 41: Public authorities shall promote working conditions for social and economic progress and for a more equitable distribution of regional and personal income. Functional performance, functional distribution... it's already under 50% of the income of work, which lives from them in ninety percent of citizenship, and there's at least 50% of the income from the capital. In particular, it will implement a full employment policy. It's in the Constitution, and they do exactly the opposite: labor counter-reforms, unemployment shot. A public system, social security for all citizens, which guarantees sufficient social assistance and benefits in the face of situations of need, especially in the case of unemployment. It's abolished, too. 4.3.1. Right to health protection. They organize and protect public health through preventive measures, services and necessary services. It's noticed, the counselor does wonders with public health. Of course, he worked for a private health company, and what he does is he works for private companies who want to do health business. Like the book, you should read – I don't think you're interested in reading – health as a business. It is translated into Spanish: Health as a business. Rational use of natural resources to protect and improve quality of life and defend and restore the environment. Your mining plan does exactly the opposite: you virtually suppress the existence of protected natural spaces. You exterminate the peasantry and the peasant economy, which is ecological in itself, and which would allow the balance of ecosystems to be maintained. 47: All Spaniards have the right to enjoy a decent and suitable home. 49: A policy of forecasting, treatment, rehabilitation and integration of physical, sensory and psychic decreases, to which they will be given the specialized care they require, and will protect them especially for the enjoyment of the rights that this title grants to all citizens because they are in a position of inferiority. You guys have abolished it, you're committing crimes with these people since you've been in power. 50: Public authorities shall ensure, by appropriate and periodically updated pensions, the economic adequacy of older citizens...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-01-27-DSPG095.u14	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-01-27-DSPG095.u15	...and also their well-being, through a system of social services that will address their health, housing, culture and leisure problems. If all this is violated, what do you talk about democratic impulses? You are in breach of the Constitution, which you have sworn to comply with. The Constitution that we are now paradoxically defending those who do not vote on it on their day because it was insufficient. You're violating the Constitution with your people every day. Start around, and don't come here to make pranks and piss for us and let's say it rains.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-01-27-DSPG095.u16	Mr. Beers, stop, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-01-27-DSPG095.u17	You are absolutely unworthy to occupy the position you occupy, what happens is that it seems that in Greece it starts to move something that, although everyone says that it is not extrapolable, mechanical extrapolations are incorrect, but analogic extensions do work, and you'll see what happens to them. We can all, they don't think they're just a few.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-01-27-DSPG095.u18	Thank you very much, Mr. Beers.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-01-27-DSPG095.u19	We can all do that.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-01-27-DSPG095.u20	Socialist Group, Mr Méndez Romeo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-01-27-DSPG095.u21	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Mr. President, the facts question your words. Today we are presented with a catalogue of measures in which there are many that are important, others that are secondary; many are the competence of the Galician Union; some are of state competence; many are necessary, they are known, and even have been discussed in this House last October. Reiterate them idle, from speeches to facts; and there, Mr. President, you are not legitimized to teach. Bring a document, bring a bill, bring something about what we can discuss, what we can make amendments, what we can deal with, what we can agree on. Because you, who has the absolute majority, just run away from any agreement. You are the one who is isolated here in the House, prefers to avoid voting and prefers to avoid public agreements, with light and tachographs, here in Parliament. He doesn't want, as he never wanted, even when there's a parliamentary warrant. In the last debate of Autonomy, last October, you presented an initiative that had some of the proposals that you make today. This group votes all of them, without restrictions. And what did you do in four months? Nothing! Most of what was approved there remains undeveloped. In many cases they don't need a bill, Mr. Feijóo, he could have acted any more, but he's not interested in doing it. Mr Feijóo, I must remind you that in that same debate the Socialist Party introduced Resolution No. 36, which also had a list of many of the measures it is proposing today. We don't mind the plagiarism, what's relevant is that they voted not on those very initiatives that you reiterate here today for the kid. As they voted, not the other initiative of this group, in the debate of the Autonomy, to amend the Rules of Procedure of the House. He doesn't want to hear about it, about effective control measures, etc. He's not interested in that. This group has supported its measures, and yet you have not been able to approve any opposition proposals on this matter; even if they have to come here again and then not apply them. Mr. President, with your proposals we always have a doubt: are they false or are they lies? Because if he does not keep his own promises, and if he fails to comply with Parliamentary agreements, how do we have to understand this situation? I have to tell you, Mr. President: More facts and less words. Last week in the Courts, three laws were discussed and passed concerning what we are discussing today: an amendment to the Criminal Code, the High Commissioner's Statute, and a reform of the Law on the Financing of Political Parties. We agree with many of the initiatives that have those standards, but those rules, however, forget important matters that we have raised. For example, in the H.E. Statute, the popular government did not want to harden the so-called rotational doors. In the Criminal Code, which raises prison sentences for many crimes, however, they refused the penalty of imprisonment for the illicit financing of political parties, unless the figure of EUR 500,000 is exceeded; a measure which seems to be intended for Mr Bárcenas. They refused to amend the Public Sector Contracts Act in respect of negotiated procedures and advertising or the splitting of contracts. Mr. Feijó, I'm talking about something very serious. Today you said I don't know what about advertising. Do you know that from the Povervisa contract, one of the largest in the Galician administration, which is 726 million euros, you don't know the clauses? I know the Counselor comes from Povervisa, but, Mr. President, a bit of ethics and also some aesthetics. It's 726 million euros and the content of that contract is unknown. Do you know that in your administration, in 2014, 47% of contracts were without free competition? Mr. President, of course you can do a lot to improve things! You didn't accept... by the way, and the rural environment contract, helicopter rental, 14 million euros in advertising. I could crack a list. Mr President, you have not agreed to modify the choice of regulatory bodies such as the Court of Auditors or the prohibition of pardons to those convicted of corruption. Today you propose to amend the electoral law, do you forget that this issue was removed by the Government of the State – which we agree – to avoid a massive mayorate? Mr President, you propose that the Board of Auditors deal with corruption, but when you have to appoint representatives in that body, you do not choose individuals of prestige and independence, you choose known people from your party. It's just that it's not unbelievable! And will it be the organ, in these conditions, which deals with the prevention of corruption? Even more. In the last budgetary debate this group proposed amendments so that the functions of the Board of Auditors could already be expanded, and you refused to amend the articulated in that sense and amend the state of expenditure to strengthen precisely the economic capacity of the Board of Auditors to deal with this. So, what are you telling us today, a reform that is not budgeted, and so forth? Mr. Feijóo, we need a shared public ethics based on exemplaryness. Ethics is not a matter of too much law. Tacitus said the most corrupt republic has more laws. In exemplaryness you fail and your government fails. We have asked you more than forty times to appear in Parliament, and you have denied it all, you have denied yourself 40 times in your legislation. We have filed 700 requests for documentation in this legislation and have denied more than 300 – half, Mr. President – official documentation not subject to any kind of reservation or secret. It is more, we ask each year, in the budget debate, that the audit of the grants granted by the Board had been made on-site by government inspectors. They refused every year. How do you want to implement more transparency now? You do an exercise of [...]. He presides over the Welsh PP, he is a leader of the People's Party of Spain, but the reality of this problem does not seem to go with you. We demand that he explain the alleged illegal financing of his organization; he refused. The prosecutor asks 800 years of imprisonment for a number of people; you don't know anything. He asks for 42 years of imprisonment for who he was one of the leading leaders of his party in Galicia; you're silent. He named him for a high office, but you don't know him now. I was here every day in this House, and now nobody remembers him. Well, I'm talking about Gürtel, I'm talking about the headquarters of Pontevedra, the funding of Ourense, Zeta, the master achievement, the "everything goes well, eating in Beluso", etc. I'm talking about dangerous friendships. Look, we've asked for documentation, what's going on? If you really want to transfer citizens a firm commitment to avoid corrupt behaviors in the future, you must change your attitude and choose exemplary behavior. You and your group have politicized the Welsh administration and the regulatory bodies, blocked Parliament and implemented the culture of opacity. That's right, in exchange for a policy of propaganda that is generously funded from public funds. Mr President, in the implementation of a public ethic that returns prestige to institutions and is a model for citizens, opposition and government we can move forward in the same way. Rousseau comments that Licurgo, the legislator of Sparta, established such exemplary customs that they made the contest of laws unnecessary. And add Rousseau by commenting on this: Because laws can stop men, but they won't change them. This is what we need here. It's easy to approve 30, 40 or a hundred measures, the hard thing is to get a different attitude, from public institutions, that really gets a virtuous public res. And we can't take this matter any longer because it affects us very deeply, of course! They affect us three times: we share with the citizens the indignation at these conducts, but we also suffer the consequences of those conducts in the discredit of political organizations. And at the same time, as elected representatives we must prevent them from repeating themselves. With all modesty I invite you to change your attitude and create a framework where all the political forces here can contribute to the necessary moralization...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-01-27-DSPG095.u22	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-01-27-DSPG095.u23	...of public life, both in norms and in political customs. Its ethical responsibility is very great. So far she's fled her, and we're worried that she doesn't make any firmer commitments today. Will you end the prosecution of political charges? Will you finish the "disputable" capture of mayors? Do you want to integrate all of you and promote a public ethics that ends these attitudes so unpresentable in an advanced society? Mr President, these are the major challenges, and not only discuss your catalogue of measures.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-01-27-DSPG095.u24	Thank you, Mr. Méndez Romeo. People's Parliamentary Group. Mr. Puy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-01-27-DSPG095.u25	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that we are having a social problem, which stems from the crisis, which forces us to make decisions that cause problems and generate a social crisis which, in turn, is ending in an institutional crisis; hence the opportunity and convenience that, together with the economic measures we are taking in recent days, some of them important, in relation to unemployment, the Government reinforces the need to give it a democratic impetus in the areas which the President has signaled: transparency, control and citizen participation. Even the word impulse is well chosen, because impulse is the force that exists in a thing that is already in motion, in development. And now we are the most transparent Government and Parliament in the history of the German Autonomy. In addition, the same is true at the level of the set of Spain with the 70 measures that are pushing the Government of Spain. So the need for an appearance to give a democratic impulse to our self-government doesn't require much explanation, it's quite obvious and quite obvious. Of course, an audience does not exclude the right of initiative from groups. What points to the attention is that some groups that have been self-excluded from the Committee on Prevention Analysis (as the Galician Nationalist Block did) now say that it is Parliament that has to assume responsibility, when they have clearly eluded it. [[Applause]] Or to pose the president's legitimacy to come here to discuss these important issues – when the president has done no moral judgment of anyone – and to question his legitimacy and his ethical and moral ability to talk about politics. The legitimacy of this House is that of all its Members, who gave us the people of Galicia through their votes. And, of course, it doesn't run in any Freudian lapsus. [[Applause]] It's not that we're going to lose the election and we want to leave the most complicated things for corruption in the next government. The Freudian lapsus is on the other hand, it's not going to happen in Galicia what happened there, and when we get to rule we have a law so hard that we can't do things like many of all the parties are doing, including, by the way, the newest ones represented in this House. Let the Socialist Party say that the president is not legitimized to bring here proposals, and that what he has to bring are papers...! We seem to forget that on November 5, the president passed thirty-one peak proposals to the Socialist Group, its leader, its secretary-general, and that he didn't answer us. That there was a commission's speech on the 10th. I sent you a starting document for the drafting of the conclusions. You have papers in writing. Fifteen days were said to reflect, and it's going to take enough time for the Government to stop waiting for an agreement that you don't want to give, and at the same time endure criticism that you don't want to do anything. After the government takes the initiative! [[Applause]] It is clear that a democratic impulse is needed. I would like to recall that, one year before the Commission was set up to analyse and study the prevention of corruption, the main problem was corruption for citizens in the CIS surveys; one year before 2.9 % of the population was concerned. The month in which we constituted the commission had already risen to 40%. And the last barometer in the CIS is at 60%. It's true that only 18 percent personally is understood to be affected by corruption, which means there's a greater perception of a real problem, which has to do with the imprecision of the data. There is no real source of the number of persons charged, the numbers vary; the slowness of the clearance of responsibilities, the interesting confusion about the personal situation, which resembles the accused or investigated to the convicted. And, of course, an asymmetric magnification of rival problems, the old question of seeing the ball in the alien eye and not the beam in itself. I mean – to give a rather objective data – that in Galicia there are three political forces that have mayors. Specifically, the People's Party has 219 mayors, of which 22 have some judicial procedure related to the crimes we're talking about; that is, 10%. The PSOE, 50 mayors, has 10; that is 17%. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And the BNG, which is 28, has 3; that is, 12%. So it's something transversal that should concern us all. It's not worth it, and it's not the way to fight this kind of problem, to say that ours are not judged by prevarication, or charged by prevarication, by administrative matters, and those of the others are, instead, because they're corrupt. Because it makes him weak in favor of linguistic normalization to say that one doesn't resign when charged with prevarication because he's not an asshole. [[Applause]] That's the reality. Ladies and gentlemen, corruption and democratic impulse can be analysed in many ways. It is usually understood by corruption – as the European Commission does – any abuse of power for private benefit, and requires, first, an individual predisposition, an ethics itself, but also, above all, the opportunity given by the rules. That's why it's also necessary to work in the field of ethics and in the field of public morality, hence the importance of an ethical code of administration. And of course also – as Madison said and I quoted here in the Autonomy State Debate – to note that men are not angels and therefore governments need some control. It's a problem – as I said a moment ago – transversal. And since it's a cross-sectional problem that affects specific people who occupy positions – as evidenced also by the memory of the State Attorney General's Office – it's neither systemic nor, of course, one-sided or one-sided a single party. I think that we should all be cautious, prudent and equanimous in the assessment of judicial actions, and, above all, in the collection of reports or data often harmful because to say that the PP is at the base of Gürtel corruption, when there is no one from Galician PP who has responsibilities in the Gürtel summary... That's right, that's right, of course! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] But that's who's got the dome of his party or investigated or charged. I mean, what did we see here? To solve a problem or – as was said in this House by an illustrious spokesman – to get into the yard? When you have the president of your accused party, the investigated secretary general, the former secretary general about to be prosecuted, at least it might be prudent. Because, ultimately, all that proves to us – both Gürtel and the other – is that the system works: that internal controls, that works the public opinion, that the media operate, and that, of course, the judiciary works. [[Applause]] Because, ultimately, in Spain, there is no impunity for anyone, no matter what party it is, and even the institutional position it occupies. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, the president has come here in an effort to talk about how to prevent corruption, how to push our self-government to avoid this kind of practice in the Galician politics. He did it because his effects are fundamentally pernicious. It misapproves resources because it introduces unfair competition; it is unfair because arbitrariness entails inequalities, and affects growth, as, by the way, they have theorized and written the famous Acemoglu and Robinson in their book – often not well interpreted – saying that it is the inclusive, agreed, democratic and consensual institutions that generate growth and less corruption; and not on the contrary, the existence of non-democratic institutions – in countries such as Venezuela and so many others that cite them – of institutions that are not inclusive, the most corrupt. But in addition to the harmful effects it has on the economy and society, corruption politically gives it ammunition against those who want to blow up the system, and this is also something that we're checking every day. That is why we understand that assuming leadership – as the Secretary-General of the Socialist Party has indeed asked for – in the regeneration and momentum of our democratic institutions is something that corresponds to the president, which we congratulate on having done so, with measures such as transparency and good governance, the prevention and control of corruption, the increase and control of both the economic participation of the parties and the citizen participation in this House. President, we believe that the time has ended when we are criticized for not wanting to consent after sending papers, and at the same time for not doing anything. Now is the time for action. In his speech he said that the People's Group would present two important bills. Of course, not only does it count for that, but it also supports those which the Government will send to the House. And we do it because, as one philosopher said, the essential thing of so-called corruption is that it is a certain betrayal to which we have true nature of politics: that is, politics as something virtuous, as something good. And, ladies and gentlemen, we now have this legislative package to prove it again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-01-27-DSPG095.u26	Thank you very much. You have the floor, for the reply, the president of the Galician Union.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-01-27-DSPG095.u27	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, appearances in the House have been producing, since there is a House, with the same format, with the same content and with the same mechanisms. It is surprising that, on the one hand, opposition groups are asking for the presence of the president, and when the president already has information about the state's basic legislation, when the president has the corresponding meeting with the first party of the opposition, when we have agreed on a series of proposals in the Autonomy State debate, and when we have already found that the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party has no authorization from its hierarchy in Madrid to deal with things, I say that, when we already have all that information, we appear in the House and that is why we are criticized. It's curious, in any case, when there are other parties that appear in other collecting bodies where not even the majority groups of those organs can speak, only the president of the institution speaks. Well, here we are the majority group, but we came to talk. We came to talk and started today. Because, ladies and gentlemen, we have not come here to propose a number of questions, we have come here to commit ourselves to bringing up five bills that will be debated, that will be claimed, that will be informed, that they will be amended and that they will be worked in this House. Therefore, Your Honor, I come not here to say but to do. And I'm not here to move problems, but to take trouble. I come here, Your Honor, with a commitment: that this legislation should be the legislation that passes the most transparent legislation in the history of the Autonomous Community. I come here with the commitment that in this legislation we will end the legal fissures that give way to certain situations that we are living in. And I come here, Your Honor, so that in this legislation we remember that Members and Members, who have the people's mandate, are in a position to say: we have done a good job, and now it is harder for what has happened to happen again. Ladies and gentlemen, it is true that you can say everything here, this is precisely what Parliament is up to. What happens is people take care of what everyone says and then they act accordingly. To say that this speech is electoralist, or electoralist propaganda, will refer to the electoral period just opened in Andalusia, not, of course, to the period of stability that we continue to enjoy in Galicia. [[Applause]] Because, ladies and gentlemen, we haven't come here using an autonomous parliament for our professional career, nor have we come here making fun of people after a number of years ruling, concluding that people who rule among themselves are not trustworthy. And, by the way, before the election campaign began, to cease half the Government that was supporting the candidate of a particular party. These are different ways of understanding politics, but we have the commitment of a people, and to that people we will answer clearly. Ladies and gentlemen, saying that the media are the ones who hide corruption is simply an insult to all the people who work in the media, because most of the news we remember and they met were just through the media. It's true there's someone who comes from different regimes, where there's only one newspaper. Those cases, Your Honor, are different things to understand democracy and freedom of expression. Your Honor, it is true that we are talking here about the adoption of laws and then not executing them. In relation to the popular legislative initiative to put services in Place where they never existed, after progressive governments with a lot of money, and by the way, leaving many debts, we can say that the 18 months I give Parliament to put technology in Lugo will not be exhausted, because technology in Lugo, in the Lugo hospital, will be put in this year 2015. But not only the linear accelerator, but also the nuclear medicine at the Lugo hospital. [[Applause]] Naturally, ladies and gentlemen, it is true that here you can say what is considered appropriate. The spokesperson for the House's majority group recalled the percentage of mayors charged with each political formation, telling the truth exactly. It is true that there are political formations that, as they divide each other during the session, it is impossible for them to have mayors, but there are others who have taken mayors of another political formation, and now they come to talk about democracy and corruption. Your Honor, Mr. Jorquera, with all due respect, you must not speak of the format of the appearance. All the presidents of the board, all the vice presidents of the board, all the councillors, we come in the same way. I don't think you, a well-known parliamentarian who has many hours of parliament in different chambers, come here to question a format. Ladies and gentlemen, I appear in the format that the House Rules allow. Of course, the spokesperson for the House's majority group pointed out that if you want to take the number of mayors charged with political formations, you have some more as a percentage than the People's Party, but of course it is the Socialist Party that has a larger number of mayors charged with Galicia. But it's not about this. If I am surprised that you suggest that, when we were in the opposition, we proposed research committees, and I continue to propose it, two per session, and I maintain that when a group has one third of the Members, it would be up to it to propose research committees. When we were in the opposition and exceeded the third of the Members, you, who were in the Government, did not accept any. Now that we have the majority, we accept the investigation committees, in some cases, which propose the opposition. And since it's logical, Your Honor, those things should be remembered. [[Applause]] Your Honor, when you talk to me about a series of issues, whether we agree or not, you speak as a matter with which you do not agree with the life sentence that can be reviewed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you agree that you can assess whether a prisoner, as a result of multiple terrorist killings, may or may not have to pay the full penalty? Do you agree or not? Don't you agree, Your Honor, that when a person kills children or children, he might wonder if it's entirely worth it? Yes or no? These are questions, as is natural, in which each one has his own opinion. But what I'm telling you is that we agree on many of the things that you proposed here today, in many. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Tell you if we agree to regulate the rotational doors. I'm sure because you haven't paid all your attention, or because you haven't explained enough to me, you haven't heard that for the first time the high positions of the Autonomous Community and the members of the Government are going to have a lot of difficulty going back to another job without being publicly known and without being allowed to the independent body of the Autonomous Community incompatibilities. They will be the first high office, and the first members of the Government, who have many difficulties for the rotating door; other governments and other high offices have other facilities, Mr. Jorquera. If we agree to expand inspectors, I said so, yes. If we agree to harden the penalties for corruption; we are doing so. I look forward to your vote in the Congress of Deputies. If we agree to paralyze pardons; we are doing so. That's why we were very surprised that a progressive government, at the last Council of Ministers of a Government in office, had granted a pardon to a well-known banker in Spain. We, Your Honor, don't do that kind of pardon or that kind of consideration. [[Applause]] Your Honor, please plant me if we're going to extend the laws of transparency. I've already said it, the law of transparency of the biparty and the law of state transparency that is currently being processed. Ladies and gentlemen, when you were in the Government, we voted on the law of transparency of the bipartisan. I hope and wish you to value the possibility of voting this law, because it's more demanding, because it's more complete and because it has more solid ethical principles. You plan a series of considerations, and you claim that we are in a position to leave the cost-of-death bus recruitment formula void. But, Mr. Jorquera, with all due respect, you came to the Government and kept this form of recruitment on the highway of Brion and on the highway of Salnès. They arrived at the Government and assisted with this formula of hiring by the highway of Barba, and in the Government they assisted by this form of hiring by the highway of the Coast of Death. What do you ask of us when you do exactly the opposite? That is why, Mr Jorquera, now that I have some proposals that you refer to me – and that, naturally, I am very grateful with great interest – with the possibilities I had on the scene of repairing them, the final proposal, the joint proposal on the non-permanent Commission for a plan to prevent and eradicate corruption in Parliament, is to adopt before this session is over. Your Honor, that commission already existed, and you didn't want to participate. Now they want to participate in a corruption commission and approve it before this session is over. That commitment goes further, Your Honor, we do not try to return to a commission; although there is no drawback if you want to reactivate. What I am asking today is that the five laws enter this Parliament, or otherwise, that the five laws are approved by the Government of the Union in 50 days, because, if not, between committee and committee, then they tell us that we do little or nothing, as was the decision to remind me of the parliamentary spokesman of the Socialist Party in the House. Mr. Jorquera, we will gladly study your document. I simply ask you to study ours, because it's a document that contains many of the things that you reflect and that it has a temporal coherence and cadence. Ladies and gentlemen, it is true that it is not necessary to invite the President of Galicia to leave, because the only possibility to invite the President of Galicia to go has the people of Galicia, and for now the people of Galicia what he tells me is that he remains, that he fulfils my mandate, that he fulfils my commitments and that he gives answers to each of the questions raised in Galicia. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, it is true that some have not understood what the people of Galicia say for 25 years. But don't worry, that in no case would I be 25 years denied trust by the people of Galicia continuously and telling the president who is in the Government to leave. But there are some who don't want to hear what he tells them. It's very difficult to go out of fashion, I understand it, but when you've passed out of fashion, what you can do is just neither insult nor despise the House. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, it is good, in any case, that we should now be reminded of the Constitution of all. That is our commitment, the Constitution of all. And that the contribution of an anti-constitutional group from a theoretical point of view, and from a biographical point of view, should now be proposed to respect the Constitution, which is filled with reason. Ensuring the protection of the family. Ladies and gentlemen, we fully agree. Secure housing. Working with disability. Redistribute the reindeer. That's our job: to comply with the Constitution and to take account of constitutional rights and duties. Ladies and gentlemen, I want to tell you – with all due respect – that we will continue to work, and I thank you, Mr. Méndez Romeo, that you point out that these measures are known, because here we have not come to improvise, and that some of them are important; I thank you in a very special way. Plan that we bring documents to deal with: five laws, gentlemen. We will have the possibility to make five laws; I hope and wish it to be possible. I say I hope and wish because this group already has experience that all the laws it presents have an amendment to the whole opposition. There's not one law we've introduced that was enough to start talking, no one! Of 22 laws submitted, 22 amendments to the whole. They'll understand that we're happy to work and that we're not going to fail because the five laws we present have this drift. We're going to keep presenting the laws and we're going to keep working because it's our commitment. I pledge that we solemnly assume in the House, and we commit to the Greeks who are not here, but to the Greeks who put us here, and that's sacred, gentlemen. The Greeks who aren't here, but who put us here, that's what leads us to work every day, and even to have to listen to everything. Ladies and gentlemen, the People's Group has accepted the handling of opposition bills. But, as I say, of the 22 projects presented in the House, none were accepted, all with amendments to the whole. It is true that in some laws the Socialist Party abstained, and I thank at least that abstention. By voting, ladies and gentlemen, they voted against not the Socialist Party, but all the groups of the House. They voted against the obligation to publish the declarations of assets of the members of the Union. I don't know if it was to hide that the previous members of the board didn't publish them, but I think it's well worth it for the present members of the board and the future to publish them necessarily. They voted against the downside to half the limit of basic legislation to settle minor contracts by direct adjudication. I don't know if it's because there are other two-party administrations that meet the ceilings of smaller contracts to avoid advertising or competition. They voted against the companies we call negotiated being linked to each other. And they voted against the self-supply, that is, the decrease in technical assistance in Galicia. At all this, gentlemen, they simply said no, that they disagreed. You'll see what they're saying. We voted in favour of the law of the bipartisan, of the law of transparency of the bipartisan, regardless of whether there were advisers or advisors who violated their own law which brought forth their Government and which was approved in the House. We are even voting on transparency laws in other autonomous communities. We voted for the transparency law proposed by the Board of Andalusia, the Community of Canary Islands, or even the Generalitat de Cataluña. There is not a single member of the Socialist Party who has voted for a law of transparency in any autonomous community proposed by the People's Party. Ladies and gentlemen, I suppose there will be a script to reach this conclusion, but if you're thinking of not voting in favor of anything, you'll just be strictly fulfilling the script, but not from Horreo Street, but from other streets in other Spanish cities. There's a double speech, actually. They say it's urgent to take action, and when we put the measures, they don't vote. They say that as citizens they worry a lot about the problems of corruption, but then they just abstract themselves as citizens, as if it weren't the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party, which governed the largest period since the Constitution in Spain. Like I didn't go with them. Now it seems that the problem of the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party is other people working in politics to try to say that the Spanish Socialist Party was not a democratic party, nor did it believe in institutions, nor did it believe in democracy. Anyway, those questions, as is logical, concern me. I'm worried because we're concerned that there's a party in the opposition with discretion. It's fundamental to being able to build a policy that also has principles. I'm not going to talk, as it is logical, about the situation of the Socialist Party in Galicia, that's not the reason for the appearance. And of course, I just wanted to say that one thing is to be charged and the other is to be guilty. There are eleven mayors of the People's Party who have been charged in the past year and a half and are now acquitted. Eleven. There are other positions of the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party, and even the BNG, who have also been charged for a long time and have finally been acquitted. That's why I think we have to make decisions, and that's why I think it's worth making proposals. AGE proposals, of course, none. BNG proposals, they just handed them over, and I hope and wish we could keep moving them. Proposals from the Socialist Party of Galicia, because they are papers, but when we want to make it happen, they cannot be agreed. And proposals from the Joint Group, I didn't expect any more proposals than criticism of the situation, and especially criticism of why I have to appear and why I have to move to the House what we want to do. It's my duty, I'll keep coming while I'm president of the board. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to finish just to move. Mr. Méndez Romeo says we could do more. Look, we started two years ago – after a period of personal reflection, after commenting on it and agreeing on it in the People's Group and the Galician Majority Party – to suggest that in the current situation we had to cut any doubt about the financing of political parties. Before we started talking about this in Spain and took it to the Courts, in Galicia we were considering the impossibility: that is, illegalizing the financing of political parties through companies. I think we'll start early. In the debate on the state of autonomy we put forward a number of proposals that were voted on, Mr. Méndez Romeo, by his group. On November 5, I met with the Secretary-General of the Socialist Party of Galicia to see if he was in agreement with his own proposals, and he told me that this could not be seen bilaterally, that he had to do it together. The question was whether he agreed with his own proposals, but I couldn't even tell myself if he agreed with himself, which sometimes doesn't surprise me. Look, ladies and gentlemen, the legal texts that we are going to make are inspired by the proposals we have made, by the agreements we have adopted, and by the state-based legislation that we must know before we can legislate in an autonomous community and that it is empty of content to its own legislation. And that's why we start right now, to finish now. We asked the Advisory Council to examine a law on the financing of political parties. I hope you deliver it immediately. In the Parliamentary Group you are working on two bills and bills, that of the Council of Auditors and that of citizen participation. And on January 29th, that is, next Thursday, we will approve the Galician Transparency Plan, the Transparency Plan of the Autonomic Administration. But in 50 days we have to finish all legislative projects. I believe, Mr Méndez Romeo, that we are faced with a situation of specific deadlines, concrete measures and specific laws. You'll talk again about the turn door. I'm sure just as Mr. Jorquera did not have an opportunity to listen to what we said about the turning doors. What we said was two clear things: that the former senior officials of the Galician Union have to communicate to the next administration where they're going to work for the next two years. Ladies and gentlemen, not only have to report it, but they have to believe in heritage movements. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I know there are laws, but I also know that when I arrived at the State Administration, then the general directors of Pharmacy of the Socialist Party were responsible for multinational laboratories in Spain. I know, Your Honor, I've come perfectly. That's why I don't want it to happen again. [[Applause]] Mr. Méndez Romeo, since the cordiality which, as his lordships can verify, unite us, solemnly say in the House that the contract of Povisa does not know anyone, you certainly refer to the contract of Povisa that signed the biparty, because the contract of Povisa that signed this Government is hung on the website of Junta de Galicia. That's why it's surprising, Your Honor, that they say that the Povervisa contract doesn't know him. [[Protests.]] Anyway, Your Honor, I want to tell you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-01-27-DSPG095.u28	Mrs. Gallego and Mrs. Acuña. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Mrs. Gallego, you have a call to order, and Mrs. Acuña too. I'm sorry, president. Excuse me a moment. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Mrs. Acuña, in case you haven't listened, you have a call to order. Go on, president.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-01-27-DSPG095.u29	Thank you, Your Honor. I'm saying that probably what you ought to say to us is not asking you to answer it, "Times have run away," but what if we were surprised when we got to Galicia's board is that we had several files declared secrets. For example, the work contract file of the board of the board of directors. Secret. Or, for example, the 112 technology platform. Secret. Your Honor, the technology platform of the 112 is now in the Journal of the European Communities. Not only is it not a secret, but there is a public contract in the Journal of the European Communities and also in the Spanish and Greek newsletters. How is it possible for you to declare secret normal issues – by the way, amounting to 8 million euros – and now tell us here whether or not we contract, whether or not we clarify, when the concert you refer to is on the website, where, by the way, if two rights are believed? The first is the right of Vigo citizens and the whole area of health to go to this concerted hospital or another hospital in the Galego Health Service network. And the second is, if there are population movements in the area of health, there will also be budgetary movements in favour of hospitals that attract more patients. Your Honor, I would like to remind you that the people who are part of the Board of Auditors are voted in this House, and therefore I do not know whether any one repents of their votes. We will have occasion, in any case, since we now know the content and scope of the new powers of the Council of Auditors and also of the People's Valedor, to renew those organs, and I hope and hope that in the renewal of these bodies we will find the necessary arrangements to put the best people in front of them. Look, I come here – and finished – simply to talk about measures in the field of the Government of Public Administration. Do you agree to demand more incompatibilities from high office, yes or no? Do you agree to demand more transparency from the Board's recruitment formulas? Do you agree regularly that you can make a Government in function and that you have to inform a Government when it transfers powers to the next legitimate Government of Galicia? Do you agree to approve a new government transparency law? Do you agree, ladies and gentlemen, that in order to make that law we collect what can move us the Greeks and the Greeks? Do you agree, ladies and gentlemen, that the Council of Auditors controls more the democratic governments of the Galician Union? Do you agree that in the financing of the political parties in Galicia we reform our law to, of course, lay down the basic legislation of the State, and additional measures, so that the money financed by the political parties is known earlier? Do you agree that for the first time in Galicia, citizens can ask questions and that groups decide whether or not they own them? Do you agree that for the first time in Galicia, citizens can put forward non-law proposals so that the House can decide whether to argue or not? Ladies and gentlemen, we agree on all this. Thank you very much, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-01-27-DSPG095.u30	Thank you very much, President. Opening of a special round of clarifications. The Joint Group has the floor to Mrs. Churches.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-01-27-DSPG095.u31	Thank you very much again. As you like to say, they will continue to perfect their best achievement of customer and corrupt policy: with boxes B, bills without Ive, confetti, gifts, opaque lists of recruitment such as those of the Galician Consortium, facilitating access to that servitude that passes through offices of councils, deputies and councils in search of a contract arising from outsourcing, collaboration or privatization, contracts or subcontracts for non-existent courses, for tourists, offerings to the aposto for the nominee of anyone, and Enrique Iglesias or Alejandro Sanz, not in their prefaces, but very video clips Galicia Quality that will cost us 250,000 euros, while public funding for the Galician cultural industry is being squandered. Bleeding unemployment and unemployment of the young and ready people who are forced to leave. Or fear of losing the job, except for relatives or close relatives who are placed in privatized companies or created ad hoc by entrepreneurs, imitating that great entrepreneur, who still belongs to his party, called Mr. Bárcenas. You crush the freedoms with the Mordaza Law and the reform of the Criminal Code. They distort popular legislative initiatives to the point where the promoters themselves ask us to oppose the resulting law, through the parliamentary lobbyist of the PP. You release 500 signatures from the fire service workers, presented in this Parliament, asking that this amendment of the PP be not approved in the 2015 budgets which reduces their hours of rest in a fearsome way. They reject all legitimate voices that claim such things as the diversion of the high tension line by the frigate of Catasos, protection for the Eiros cave, the residence of San Francisco, labor claims. In my opinion, their way of understanding democracy and democratic impulse is of very low quality. Even so, allow me the luxury of retreating to get momentum. You're mentally ill. Cheers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-01-27-DSPG095.u32	Mrs. Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-01-27-DSPG095.u33	Thank you, President. All opposition groups have demonstrated the lie and treason of the President of the Union to everything he promised in the elections: liquidation of public services, taxes and budgets for the benefit of lenders, increase in the debt of the Union, favors and business for friends and friends. What the PP calls insults are proven, enough to read the reports of the Board of Auditors. And the PP's answer is always the same: to deny the evidence, to accuse those who don't rule and advertise. Mr. Núñez, with the People's Party – with you – there is no recovery, because you have no political ethics. The social emergency doesn't allow patience. The thousands of Welsh people who suffer from poverty, the people who have lost their jobs, the dependents, the sick, they can't wait any longer. He's now going to the opposition. We often agree in our speeches. Mr Beiras has baptized this Parliament as a House of Gas or a Cardboard Parliament, all of which advocate the state of decomposition of this House of Representatives in which the opposition we fight against the demolition brigade that we are out of control. We raise arguments, reasons and solutions, and I am convinced that we represent the citizen who is suffering. But is that enough? Enough to play ping pong from our seats or should we do anything else? Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, let us provoke and share with the citizenry that the change of Government of the Union is mobilized and the rupture of this borbonic regime. We are engaged in a campaign to dislodge the corruption and opacity of San Caetano outside and within Parliament. We have to do something else to describe reality. We need to join forces and move from words to facts. Galicia needs, in the processes that come, having its own voice with force, we can't stay under the board. We are committed to defending the radical democratic rights of Galician and Galician citizenship as such a nation. Only so, if we can agree and reach an agreement to put this [...] of the Galician Union, we will really serve the Greeks and the Greeks who have chosen us. [[(By order of the President and in accordance with Rule 106(3) of the Rules of Procedure, this expression is withdrawn from the Journal of Sessions.)]] Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-01-27-DSPG095.u34	Thank you very much. Mrs. Martínez, the legitimate Government of Galicia, if you like. Thank you very much. Mr. Jorquera, you have the floor. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Mrs. Martínez, please go to your seat. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Mr. Jorquera, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-01-27-DSPG095.u35	Thank you, Madam President. I'm sorry I wasn't Mr. Puy now, because he wanted to make two clarifications to what he said. First of all, I never said that Mr. Feijóo had no legitimacy to make these proposals, I said he had no credibility, which is different. And secondly, Mr. Puy, there is absolutely no mayor of the BNG charged by the commission of alleged corruption-related crimes, and whenever we want to discuss what corruption is or not. But above all, I was surprised that – which is falling – you said, Mr. Puy, that we see the straw in the alien eye instead of seeing the beam itself. And the one you're falling into, Mr. Puy, I ask you a question: do you really know what a ball is and what a beam is? [[Applause]] With regard to the appearance, Mr Feijóo, we are talking about an extraordinary appearance, outside the sitting period of this Parliament. If we're talking about such a serious issue, if we're talking about a question that is of enormous concern to citizens, there's absolutely nothing that prevents this appearance from having another format, according to the seriousness and importance of the issue we're dealing with. Research committees. They say they are willing to support all those who have the support of more than a third of the Members. The Training Research Commission has been supported by more than a third of Members and you have used most of your blockade to prevent their constitution. But how can you speak of your predisposition to the investigation committees when the case investigation committee is paralysed and blocked after a unanimous agreement by this Parliament to reopen it, and that by December there were already conclusions? [[Applause]] Commission on Anti-Corruption Measures. BNG is on that commission, Mr Feijóo. What he did was not participate in the presentation after the PP rejected all our proposals for appearance and unilaterally imposed his work plan without meeting any of our proposals. But he's on that commission, and we've been waiting for more than a year for his work to resume as well. Highway to the Coast of Death. What does BNG ask for? What BNG is asking for is something as simple as not changing the initial contractual conditions to suit the interests of a company at the cost of prejudging the public era. You insisted that he came here to do. Let me say no, he came "to do what is done." Look, it announces five laws: Transparency Act – when they systematically fail to comply with the law that is in force –. The Board of Auditors Act – the senior adviser, in a meeting with the Board of Auditors Committee of this Parliament, said that in order to take on corruption prevention tasks, the Board of Auditors needed a lot more economic, human and technical resources. The BNG and other opposition groups, in the process of budgets, have tabled amendments precisely to equip them with these means and that could well develop that function, and you voted against it. They announce the law of citizen participation and do so after you amputate the law to reinforce the popular legislative initiatives that the BNG presented in this House, when they voted against the law of popular consultations that BNG presented in this House, and when they veto the reform of the regulation to strengthen the role of this Parliament. They now announce that citizens can ask the Government questions, and they do so when they don't answer questions posed by opposition groups or provide the documentation claimed by opposition groups. [[Applause]] Law on the financing of political parties? Look, Mr. Feijóo, I have to say that in this respect I am surprised at your proposal, given that there is a state law that the proposals you announced are consistent with those that are defending the People's Party at the state level. Do you want a specific financing law for Galicia, and set up a specific system for Galicia's financing for political parties? As you will understand, as nationalists we are willing to debate and consider it, but you have left without answering a basic question. Don't you have company grants? Perfect. But do you also agree that there are no donations from the reference shareholders of these companies, that there are no prayers from the presidents of the board of directors of companies that would benefit from public contracts, to set an example? He stopped answering that question. Well, I'm not going to ask you to speak today about all the proposals that BNG has put forward in its first speech and other proposals contained in the document that I made to you. I remind you that I asked you a very clear, very specific, very specific question about the election law to the Galician Parliament. I'm asking you to answer in the reply. What are you going to do with the Elections Act in the Galician Parliament? He speaks continually of consensus, is he still seeking to reform it unilaterally and in favour of the party's party's partisan interests? But I also ask you to speak about two other specific proposals that we have made: Is it willing to extend to private entities that manage public services the rules that apply to the public sector? Are you willing to remove from public procurement any negotiated procedure without advertising? Please be clear and concrete in your answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-01-27-DSPG095.u36	Thank you very much. Parliamentary Group of the Left Galician Alternative. Mr. Beiras Torrado has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-01-27-DSPG095.u37	Go away, Mr. Núñez! I did what I did was plagiarise Mr. Aznar, who is returning to put him in his face. I don't know how many things. It was harder for Mr Aznar in the People's Party Convention with all of you than any of us here can be. You don't answer anything, but that's usual. You intend that from an appearance that you know here that rises again in the censor of the opposition, to practice from power the denotation of those we are fighting the body discovered in the opposition, that from that we must explain ourselves. I'm not that parish, you know? I was reminded of what was said in the early exercises of opposition to Chairs many years ago: Mecachis, how handsome I am, and the horse that I am well! Just as ridiculous. I mentioned a series of articles from the Spanish Constitution – which I know is the Magna Charter – that you and your Government – in a very special way your Government since most absolute November 2011 – have reduced to ashes, and these are fundamental rights of citizens, rights that meet social and material conditions. Do you think there can be democracy if there are people who are starving, citizens who are unemployed without any subsidies, citizens who are less psychic or physical who do not receive help? Can you really say they have democratic rights? Corruption is a problem, but I haven't talked about money corruption, I've talked about that corruption, which is to turn the lining into a constitutional regime and boast about defending the Constitution. You told me what I said! Show me that you're not right. Don't come with rhyme! You prove to me that it is not true that Mr. Rajoy's Government, since the first day in the Courts, with the absolute majority, has begun to do everything contrary to what he had undertaken to do. The trust contract is the contract of representatives elected to the electorate. When that contract is violated, democracy is being violated; democratic impulse must be restored to the validity of the contract, and you don't. The rest of it is to take the ass by the leaves, which is what you come here: to dizzy the partridge. But even in concrete, in the spring of 2011, a few months before the elections in which Rajoy arrived in the People's Party, he had the absolute majority in the Courts and began to rule, the Greek bilingual newspaper, called the Galician newspaper, published a photo of Mr. Rajoy on the ship of a drug dealer. You did something like a drug dealer, not a drug dealer, but an entrepreneur without more, normal and decent, with Mr. Quintana, vice president of the Government. Mr. Rajoy immediately called the owner of the company owner of the newspaper and demanded Ipso fact from the head of the director, Xosé Luís Gómez. And he said, I don't know if you're aware that in a few months we'll rule, and if you want to have contracts, you know what you have to do. Of course, blackmail worked, decapitated director Xosé Luís Gomez and almost immediately closed the paper. But you did something similar in the summer of 2011 with the only paper published in English. Since you came to Junta, he machacholy began pressuring the deputy advisor to that daily owner's group, and the director of the newspapers in that group, and he said, "What are you doing keeping that book, that pamphlet, there?" As soon as he had the opportunity, he closed the billboards of subsidies to the only newspaper in German – called Galicia Hoxe – and beheaded him. That's the way you understand what they call democracy. And they say only two examples, because I could go back to Iraq's invasion, when Mr. Rajoy was the vice president of a government of Mr. Aznar who was an accomplice in crimes against humanity and of universal lies about weapons of mass destruction. That's far more serious corruption because millions of people die. Or when in 2004, in the tragic attack on Atocha, Mr. Acebes, the Minister of Government, said he was ETA, when he knew it wasn't ETA, and it ended up being what it was. Those are you and your morals, so I'm outraged, and as I am many, many, many thousands of citizens, even though you ignore them and even if you reduce them to silence in this House...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-01-27-DSPG095.u38	Thank you very much, Mr. Beers.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-01-27-DSPG095.u39	...for a short time. I don't aspire, I never aspired, to be president of the board. Look, for the most part, you tell me any... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-01-27-DSPG095.u40	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-01-27-DSPG095.u41	...fighter of Greek nationalism in defense of the Greek people from the 19th century until our days, that fighter of those who remain there in history, who was president of the Union. The last one, Mr. Bautista Álvarez...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-01-27-DSPG095.u42	Mr. Beers, stop, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-01-27-DSPG095.u43	Castile. What's wrong? Was Castelao a failure? You have to give medals with the name of Castile... Don't put your hands on your head... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-01-27-DSPG095.u44	Thank you very much, Mr. Beers.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-01-27-DSPG095.u45	...because what really happens is that we know perfectly well that those who bet on the people who are being mistreated are on the wrong side when you intend to make the career that you intend to do. That's good for you! I don't care!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-01-27-DSPG095.u46	Socialist Group. You have the word, Mr. Méndez Romeo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-01-27-DSPG095.u47	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Feijóo, you have the sad habit of missing the truth with a certain frequency. Look, this is what's on the website about Povervisa's contract, exclusively the adjudication resolution... yes, Counselor, we just checked it out. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Mr. Feijó, you probably don't have to know these details, but we're in front of the whole episode where the health counselor minds you, and therefore has one more reason to quit at once. This is 726 million opaque. They are so opaque, Mr Feijóo, that your parliamentary group has applied for this contract by register. Mr. Feijóo, Law of political parties. Finally, I simply remind you of Article 6 of the Spanish Constitution and the reservation of organic law which makes the Constitution itself. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Then the Advisory Council will see what you're doing. [[Murmurs.]] Mr Feijóo, of course we reject a private agreement with you from behind Parliament. Of course we refuse it! Because we can only address this question if there is an agreement of all political forces, and that has to produce here, with light, not in a private office, where we can understand and know its measures, but where it would not be understandable for citizens who had come into an agreement without debate, an agreement without participation and an agreement exclusive to an important part of Galician society. And you don't want to understand that. Mr. Feijóo, Obama said last week, in the debate of the American nation, that it would be good that there, which are also very polarized positions and there is a lot of difficulty in governance, there had been an agreement at least so that in Parliament there, in the Senate and in the House of Representatives, there would be debates on the problems that really affect citizens and that there would be some side to the minor issues or the issues that are often political rifi-rafe. Here in Galicia, and in Spain, that was not possible, neither in economic policy nor in social policy nor in territorial policy. The fight against corruption could be a first step. The condition, of course, of guiding the maximalist positions from the Government and of accepting that there must be a degree of participation that allows stable solutions, allows credible solutions, and, above all, allows shared solutions. And, of course, we're not. Because, Mr President, there are two ways to address this problem. One, the traditional vision. This is a problem with the weakness of some people who are delinquent, etc. With that vision, we didn't make much progress. What is the vision of advanced democracies? The vision of weights and counterweights in government action. What does counterweight mean? For example, a fully professionalized public administration. What does counterweight mean? Absolutely independent regulatory bodies. If you put the secretary general of your party in a regulator, we'll hardly understand each other. What does a control policy mean? That Parliament really knows not only when it wants the government, but when it claims it; that the documentation is known, and not only in this way. Mr. President, this is the way. Because in the end, when we talk about corruption, what exactly do we want? Have a set of laws? Bring them in and we'll discuss them. We're not going to discuss the concrete measures, we're probably going to agree with many of them. What are you waiting for to bring them? Mr President, the objective of a policy against corruption must be to increase public virtue, the ethics of administrations, and we must reach a point where corruption has the same social contempt, the same pattern, which today have conduct that only 15 or 20 years ago were accepted in a normal way, such as violence against minors or violence against women. We must add to the punitive sanction the social rejection, because, where there is a corrupt person, there is also a corrupter. So it's not just a matter of rules, but above all a matter of attitudes, of procedures, of ways to focus on governance. And, Mr President, that is where we have serious doubts about your degree of commitment. You're the one who has to convince us. You are, above all, the one who has to offer here assurances that we are not faced with a so-called postureum; that is, a position that is adopted because there are elections within four months and the citizens say the surveys that are outraged, and we all know that this is true. So, Mr President, you have to try to work on that line of public ethics with procedures. And not only with rules, with a different attitude than you're having with your absolute majority. Otherwise you will be able to have some rules that will be more or less advanced, but that will be very difficult to apply; and, above all, that will not address the underlying problem. And, of course, when you forget any kind of debate about what has really happened in these cases in recent years, that's when you start having some doubts. In any case, I use it again to stop talking about promises and come with specific texts on which we can begin to take positions, knowing that you will only have the final support, at least from this group, if in this framework the proposals that we can all make are sufficiently collected. Because we don't have the ability to enforce standards, but we also have a mandate...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-01-27-DSPG095.u48	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-01-27-DSPG095.u49	...to be here and defend certain principles, and not to applaud critically what the Government proposes. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-01-27-DSPG095.u50	Thank you very much. People's Parliamentary Group. Mr. Puy Fraga has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-01-27-DSPG095.u51	Good day again. We've just heard some questions that are curious. The representative of the Joint Group praised both in his speech and quoted Mr Beiras so much that one wonders why he is in the Joint Group and left the group in which he was elected. He also drew attention to the concern Mr. Beiras has for Mr. Aznar's return, when Mr. Beiras was before he had arrived at Aznar, he was when he was at Aznar's, and continues before Mr. Aznar's return. [[Applause]] And more seriously, another curiosity. I, at the moment that it was stated in this house, in this gallery, that it was hung on the website of the councillor's concert with Povisa, called the group and asked, please, to confirm to me, because it was almost certain, almost certainly, that they would question it. Well, that's it, it's all in, and I'll make it easy for you in the entire website. [[Murmurs.]] And in case... No, no, I'm sorry, ma'am... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-01-27-DSPG095.u52	Mrs. Gallego, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-01-27-DSPG095.u53	Mrs. Gallego, as you seem to have some trouble finding him on the website, I'm going to facilitate the instructions. First screen, click. Second screen, third screen, download. And you can check it out. Well, all this – so you don't misunderstand me – asked him because I also need him, that I don't know how to download these things so easily. [[Applause]] I defined corruption – we speak a lot of corruption – as any abuse of power for private benefit, according to what the European Union says. I could quote Victoria Camps, who has a common definition: giving priority to private interest in public interest. Because the truth is that corruption is a very complex phenomenon that can approach one to it with the focus of public interest, and when the particular over general prevails. We can have an approximation, Mr. Jorquera, strictly legal, which is what the Prosecutor's Office does in its memoirs, which, when it talks about corruption in its reports, refers to all crimes related to misrepresentation, rocket, prevarication, trafficking in influence, tax fraud or money laundering. So you can say some question -- I'll come back now about it -- but that's the legal definition. It can also be sociocultural, which is more dangerous because it has to do with social uses and behaviors, sometimes very condescending to what is called soft corruption. And there's also market corruption, related to the demand for income in the public sector, which is income optimization by satisfying the governments' wishes rather than satisfying consumers' wishes in the market. So, from there on, we can do all the disparity you want. It turns out that in Andalusia there are 50 high charges charged, and the gentleman comes [...] to Galicia, where there is no one, and says that in the case of ERE there are shames, the PP incorporates corruption. Well, this seems to me to be not very suitable, because it's basically treating things that aren't. Or, for example, if we get to a situation where there is a mayor who seems to alter the administrative procedure to avoid a motion of censure that the constables have prepared, and charge for prevarication, because we can understand that it is prevarication at least in the legal term. You will politically assess what would happen if that was done by a mayor of the People's Party and it was the Block that presented the motion of censure. Just like a contract that is also subject to prevarication research, to asphalt an urban road and favor the neighbors; if that does it a mayor of the PP is corruption, and, of course, long before they charge it, it must already be sent to the calibers of hell. In the same way that we may also wonder why a person has to resign because he does not know – also curious, by the way – that his husband has a Jaguar in the garage of his house. But, on the other hand, when you give a lot of contracts directly to your brother, you don't know he's a member of the company that receives the grants. All of this is questionable, but what is important is to make structural and institutional decisions. [[Applause]] We appreciate some of the tones that have been in the last speeches, the Block and the PSOE, in particular, and we assume the commitment – which I reiterate again – that we are going to make a democratic impulse, which is much more than fighting corruption; we are going to dialogue; we are going to integrate positions of opposition groups through the amendments to the Law on Transparency, good government, of the financing of political parties and of the legal advice that the Government is going to forward to the House; and, of course, we are willing to speak and improve the proposals for the law of participation in this House and the Council of Auditors that will promote the group. Because the reform of institutions through legislative initiatives makes us open the possibility of agreement, and we again tend our hand, with only one objective, which is to guarantee the right of citizenship to be used in the best way, in the most appropriate way, the public resources that make available to the rulers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-01-27-DSPG095.u54	You have the floor, to close the debate, the President of the Council of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-01-27-DSPG095.u55	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, we will conclude the debate, and this audience, because we have work ahead, concrete deadlines, concrete contents. Certainly here we have talked about many things: the strawberries of Catasos, the residence of San Francisco, even the anatomical parts of the male body. As is logical, here each one uses the deadlines given to him by the Greek people, but surely the Greek people took good note of what each one speaks. There are even women who propose an amendment to the opposition, a repression of the opposition, and they plant nothing more and nothing less than fighting for the rupture of the borbonic regime. It is logical, ladies and gentlemen, that you will be able to understand each other, but I think I remember that the Spanish Socialist Party has always had a huge respect for the head of State, and even now the ruptureist policies use the Constitution as the leitmotiv of this appearance. But, as it is logical, ladies and gentlemen, we haven't come here to talk about us, nor have we come here to solve the problems of internal divisions and why someone throws it out of the group and has difficulty talking about the money they then distribute. And then they teach about corruption. I'm saying the Greek people know well, they're sovereign, they decide every four years, and they always decide what they want. That's why I speak as president of the Union, because the Greek people sent me to do it. Mr Jorquera, in all respects, I repeat the proposals to you. You know I wasn't in this House, but the Members around him were in the House. When we were the opposition, after winning the elections, only one seat of the absolute majority – and we were in the opposition, and there were other groups that clearly lost the elections and were in the Government – we thought from the opposition that, when a parliamentary group had a third of its members, it had the right to approve two committees of inquiry. The answer was no. I repeat: when the BNG has a third of the Members, I can assure you, Your Honor, that I will take good account of the proposals we ourselves put in the Chamber. Maximum limitation of negotiated contracts without advertising. There is no public administration, at least I know, that was self-restricted more than the current Galician Union, or the bipartite of the Lugo Deputy, nor the bipartite of the Lugo Council while there was, nor the bipartite of the Ourense Council while ruling, nor, of course, the bipartite of the Galician Union, which used at most the negotiated procedures without limiting counties, and adjured by urgency millions and millions and millions of euros, without publicity, without competition, and above the limits of the negotiated procedures. But, as is logical, we're going to talk about the negotiated procedures, and I anticipate that we're willing to decrease those counts and seek, if possible, an agreement, at least at that point, with the BNG. You say they want to talk about the funding of political parties, and it's weird that we're talking about it here because it's being discussed in the General Courts. Well, you see, we talked about this because we've been talking about this for more than two years before the debate entered the General Courts. Because, in addition to being president of the Galician Union, each president of the autonomous community is the regular representative of the State in the autonomous community. If all the autonomous presidents had made this reminder – which, without swearing this commitment we cannot take possession of as presidents – we could without any doubt make a proposal and after that proposal had been discussed in the General Courts. And now you and I can also talk about how we implement that proposal that will force all the parties that we have developed our activity in Galicia. We'll talk about it, and I assure you that's our interest. Ladies and gentlemen, when it is said here that the People's Party, both in the General Courts and in Spain, and the People's Party in the Galician Parliament, that is to say, in this country, we do not defend the Constitution, it is simply not to have any memory or the slightest exposition rigor. Look, Your Honor, one of the first things we defended was national sovereignty, and national sovereignty was, at times of economic recession, to maintain intact the sovereignty of the Spanish people to establish the mechanisms against the economic recession we inherited. There are other nations in Europe that have not been able to prevent the rescue of social services, the ransom of health, the ransom of education. We maintain national sovereignty because it is health and education and social services that we are most concerned about at times of economic recession. The same way we've been holding it since Galicia. And while the autonomous communities governed by nationalists are rescued by the Ministry of the Fair, an autonomous community governed by a Galeguist party has its unspoiled self-government, so I think it is worth it, Your Honor, to exercise self-government in a responsible manner, defending the Constitution, because defending the Constitution is to defend the Statute of autonomy. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, let's keep working. I'm not going to talk about people who aren't here, nor have they been or are they now, but I'm saying that they come here and insult the President of the Government of Spain because he says he's threatening who I don't know, and then he insults the President of the Board – which I'm already used to – because he also threatens who I don't know. Look, here's the only thing that threatens it is one person to the rest, and as we're already used to it, because it just seems like an anecdote to us. But we didn't threaten anyone, and we felt threatened many times in the plenary. It is surprising that just in this plenary, which has the right of Members, there is a Member who constantly threatens other Members in the House. These are things that history has already judged and will continue to judge, but at last. Imitating someone to Castile. Castelao has never threatened anyone, but there are other Members who believe themselves to be successors of not knowing what and to be threatened. And speaking of photos, ladies and gentlemen, there are some Members who are probably here thanks to some photos, and even above them they claim now. It's the world backwards, Mr. Jorquera, you certainly understand me. Mr. Méndez Romeo, with all due respect, I know that the teams that each one has sometimes play a bad past. But I can assure you that this is not the first time that you solemnly say certain things here and come documents of 20, 30 or 40 sheets to deny what you say. We won't consider it because I'm convinced that you believe in your collaborators, but what I think you should do is change your collaborators. Because to say here that the President of the Council, when the People's Parliamentary Group through its spokesperson believes that what he was saying is true, and that nothing happens in the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party, is very worrying. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] It is true, ladies and gentlemen, that everything happens here, there are presidents of autonomous communities who decide to convene early elections to see if they can make a political career. And not only that, but they stop half of their government because it was another political party, and thanks to that political party, it was president of that Autonomous Community. It also leaves in the Standing Committee, in the Permanent Parliament and the Andalusian Parliament, Members and Members who are charged with maintaining their immunity. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Mr. Méndez Romeo, please have respect. Don't try to teach anyone a lesson. [[Murmurs.]] I'm telling you that these things don't happen in this Parliament. This government respects the House and this government, above all, respects the people. And we don't make elections when they ask us, Your Honor, we make elections when they touch us. [[Applause]] Now, Your Honor, that certain ideologies are fashionable in some countries – small - of Europe at the moment – because there is someone here who demands them. I'm not surprised if there's anyone claiming to have won in Greece a very mature politician who's been out there for ten years, ten years, scheming from the Communist Party of Greece, and who has clearly said what he is. [[Murmurs.]] He clearly says his words: radical left. Of course. He's not making anything up, you know him in Greece. What is true is that there is a parliamentary group here to rejoice in this election victory and also Mr Le Pen in France, and these kinds of coincidences are sufficiently revealing. I am concerned about the situation of the Socialist Party in Greece, and of course I would be very concerned that the situation of the Socialist Party in Greece is also the situation of the Socialist Party in Spain, because that would undoubtedly be very bad, Mr Méndez Romeo, for democracy, not only in Spain, but also in Galicia. Now, what I'm asking is that, as you owe us 26,000 euros, you pay them. Because 26 billion euros which Greece owes to Spain is the budget of the Galician Union for three years, and as a Greek demand that debts be paid, because it owes Galicia money and owes money to the rest of Spain. Ladies and gentlemen, it costs us a lot to make the money. [[Applause]] And, therefore, it surprises us now that the change is not to pay what Galicia and the rest of the Spaniards owe. [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I said at the outset, and I reiterate it, that the presence of the current President of Galician Union at the moment has no more interest than to make proposals. It's still the initial idea with which I started the appearance and the final idea of this appearance. It gives me the feeling that in this audience you've been up to what's expected of you, but not to what your citizens expected. Of course you can change, because citizens continue to expect opposition and the majority group to deal with important things, at least those we believe in democracy. Some preferred to be installed in demagogy, not to propose anything, to insult everyone and not to achieve anything at all. Poor favor to the country's general interest! In any case, that's not going to be an obstacle for us to continue with the tender hand. We will deal with these five texts, ladies and gentlemen, and we will see, Mr Méndez Romeo, Mr Jorquera, if there are any possibilities, in these 50 measures that we contain and those five bills that we present, so that Galicia will become one of Spain's most transparent administrations and one of the most transparent regions of the European Union. I think this objective deserves an effort, and I think it deserves an effort to park short-term attitudes, because short-term attitudes are what they are, ephemeral: they're fashionable and they're no longer in fashion. Ladies and gentlemen, Galicia has before it the possibility of being a community with a political exemplaryness and an exemplary in preventing the fight against corruption. I can assure you that Galicia will be a community with exemplary legislation in the fight against corruption, and I want to share these commitments with the House groups. I'm sure we'll get it with you or without you. But we're going to legislate, we're going to pass and we're going to apply those laws. I've been waiting for you. Ladies and gentlemen, I have made no private agreement with the President or with the Secretary General of the Socialist Party of Galicia. But what private agreement? Is it possible to compromise with a political force something is a private agreement? Does it turn out that talking between political leaders and consensualizing measures is a private agreement? It turns out, Your Honor, that what we do here are private agreements? Ladies and gentlemen, if you have any ideas, make it available. You've ruled for a long time in Spain, for a long time in autonomous communities, and those laws that you approve of in Andalusia, and others, then what they do in Andalusia is not enough for Galicia. That's why I ask you to go up the list that you yourself apply to communities where you still rule. Because, unfortunately, the spectacle that we are seeing in the autonomous state, with an interest in seeking to evict the United Left of Parliament from Andalusia, when thanks to that political force an ostensibly to the presidency of the Government, is a formula that we cannot accept and which we cannot agree with. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] That's the opposite of politics, that's the opposite of respect for Parliament and the election of a people. But, Mr. Méndez Romeo, the people ask us to set up a more transparent government, so, as we want a more transparent government, there will be a new law of transparency of the Government of the most advanced in Europe; and that is why there will be a portal of transparency that will allow you to publish aspects of the Government's action, where you will be able to seek again the contract of Povervisa. [[Murmurs.]] Your Honor, that's why we will pass by law the code of ethics of the Galician Union, the first one we approve, now by law. That's why we regulate the obligations of high office before taking possession, during his term of office and after taking possession. That's why, ladies and gentlemen, we'll look for exceptions to receive legal assistance from the high offices of the Union. That's why we'll limit by law what a government can do in functions, so they won't help, as they've done to all governments, works or contracts. So, ladies and gentlemen, let us regulate by law the transfer of powers to the autonomous community for the first time. That's why we're going to give the Board of Auditors more powers and more capabilities, so that it can externally control the action of the Government. That's why the Greek political party financing law wants to be a law that goes beyond state commitments. And so, ladies and gentlemen, the law of mechanisms for citizen participation, which may refer also to the ordinary activity of the House, will be a text. Ladies and gentlemen, I am convinced that we can speak of other things, Mr Jorquera, although - as is natural - we cannot change the Constitution or the Statute to the effect, at least in what remains of legislation. But we can talk, for example, about the electoral campaigns and the deadline for the election campaigns in Galicia. No need to legislate it, we can deal with it. And we can without a doubt agree on the removal of Members' savings. It's not obligatory to amend the Statute or the Constitution, you can make a deal. And you can agree to clarify the scope of parliamentary inviolability, so that no one, using the mechanism of parliamentary inviolability, can insult, insult or slander any Greek citizen. [[Murmurs.]] Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, finally, Galicia will count – and I think it is well worth it – with you too to make a more transparent administration, to have greater internal and external control of public activity itself, to reduce the margin of manoeuvre of the undesirable. And that's why, Your Honor, we have work to do in the coming weeks. If you want to, we'll work together; if you don't want to, we'll work with the majority representation given to us by the Greeks. For our part we'll be up to it, the Greeks ask us and the Greeks demand it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-01-27-DSPG095.u56	Thank you very much. We'll make a short break up to and over a quarter. It's a brief recess before the second show begins. It's called, as usual, by the bell. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-01-27-DSPG095.u57	The meeting was resumed with the presence of the Health Adviser by agreement of the Permanent Member and the request of the Members of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia. The opinion of Mrs. Health Counsellor, at the request of G.P. of the Galician Socialists, to account for the collapse of the emergency services of the Greek hospitals, as well as to inform of the measures envisaged to be put in place to deal with the healing of the sick people of hepatitis C
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-01-27-DSPG095.u58	You have the floor to make your speech to the health advisor, Mrs. Rocío Mosquera.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-01-27-DSPG095.u59	President, ladies and gentlemen, good morning. I compare today in this House to report on the situation in the emergency services of the Galician Health Service in relation to the situation of influenza in the population and also to provide them with the latest information available on hepatitis C in our autonomous community and in the national health system. Emergency services are a fundamental part of the health system and essential for the care they provide. In our system, the urgent pathology goes as far as the continuing attention points and the emergency hospital services. Their goal is to diagnose, treat and stabilize as much as possible this type of pathology. It is about providing care to every citizen who demands urgent health care as soon as possible and with the highest effectiveness. To manage the demand for urgent care by citizens more appropriately, in hospital services there are initial priority selection systems or what we call "triage", which is the selection, prioritization and organization of this assistance. As you know, the method of screening used in the hospital emergencies of the Galego Health Service is the so-called Manchester system, which uses a classification of patients by color according to their level of severity. There are five levels of gravity that correspond to five different colors that allow you to set the order of attention according to criteria of gravity and not the mere entry or arrival of the Emergency Service. It also allows the attention times to be adjusted to the clinical efficacy criteria already tested and results from great help in daily practice. The selection process includes an initial rating to set the severity level that is identified with the different colors: level 1, called red resuscitation, indicates that attention must be immediately due to risk of death; level 2, orange color, means emergency, so the patient should be treated between ten and fifteen minutes; level 3, yellow, urgency to dry, i.e. waiting time should be less than one hour; level 4, green, urgency lower, sets a maximum of two hours of waiting; and finally level 5, blue color, without urgency, means that attention could take up to four hours. This system offers an important advantage to patients because from the very first moment, they are told what their situation is of gravity and have an estimate of waiting time to be met, as the classification takes a maximum time for medical evaluation. When there is an urgent demand for care situation higher than expected, that is, when many patients attend emergency services in a very short time, the established estimate may be altered, above all, for patients with lower risk, who are green and blue. At this time of year, in winter, there is usually a greater influx of patients to the Emergency Service, mainly as a result of complications associated with influenza processes and other respiratory paintings. The flu is a disease produced by a virus for which we have an effective prevention measure, which is the vaccine; a vaccine that is necessary to manufacture and administer every season. Every year, the World Health Organization analyzes what's going on in the southern hemisphere, and that's what's going to happen in the northern hemisphere, ours in the next season. In this way, it recommends that it be used for the preparation of the vaccine, for example, for the 2014-2015 season of our hemisphere, the group of viruses that has been circulating in the southern hemisphere in the 2014 season. Therefore, the vaccine will be more or less effective the greater the concordance between vaccine viruses and circulating viruses, but it always decreases the severity of the disease, especially in older patients and with basic pathologies that make them more vulnerable. So the best option is always to vaccinate in recommended cities and risk groups. And also health personnel must be vaccinated, both for their own personal protection and for the protection of their patients. Such vaccination is much more transcendent in services that treat particularly fragile patients: Critics Unit, Neonatology, Oncology, etc. And this is also the way the World Health Organization has to predict the severity of the epidemic, the number of cases, the ages in which it will most be affected and the morbidity and mortality. On the other hand, the Carlos III Health Institute, through the Flu Surveillance System in Spain, follows up the flu waves in Spain, and with it reinforces or corrects the forecasts made by the World Health Organization about the circulating viruses each time. In Galicia, the General Directorate for Innovation and Public Health Management, in addition to taking into account the forecasts of the World Health Organization and the Carlos III Institute, uses different monitoring systems that allow the wave to be detected, track its evolution and try to predict the moment of peak. The sources of information used by this system are: 061, where the number of weekly calls are collected and analyzed for influenza and other acute respiratory infections, by age group and province; primary care, where the number of consultations are collected and analysed in health centres encoded as influenza, by age group and province, together with the number of doctors who report – this system also selects a number of recognized physicians as better reporting physicians that allows the weekly rate of influenza cases to be approximated; Microbiology, which collects and analyzes the number of respiratory samples in which influenza is requested and its result to know the percentage of positive weekly hospitals and, therefore, estimate the level of diffusion and type of circulating influenza viruses; and, lastly, hospital incomes with confirmed flu, where the number of income is collected and analyzed in all stately-owned public hospitals, in Fatima and in Puvisa, with high risk factors, to meet the risk factors, to be met. All these systems are complementary. With the data obtained from all of them, we do an analysis that enables us to qualify flu activity weekly and estimate its intensity, diffusion and tendency. The flu wave was considered to be initiated when the threshold of 169 calls per flu per week was exceeded, calculated with the data of 061, applying the method proposed by Tomás Vega and collaborators based on the study of a historical series. This is a fairly sensitive method that allows you to detect early start of the wave. According to the European Influence Service Network and according to the Flu Surveillance System in Spain, in Galicia the influenza activity that is published weekly on the website of the Health Council is classified with three indicators: intensity, geographic diffusion and trend of influenza activity. The indicator of the intensity of influenza activity in turn is qualified from the number of calls for influenza and more from acute respiratory infection received in 061 that week. In the 2014-2015 season, the intensity of influenza activity is classified as in the previous one. This is: low, when influenza activity is lower than usual during the annual influenza epidemics, that is, below 169 calls per week, which is considered the baseline level for the Galician set; mean, usual influenza activity during the annual influenza epidemics, that is, between 169 and 500 calls per week; high, influenza activity higher than usual during the annual influenza epidemics, that is, between 500 and 590 calls per week; and very high, when influenza activity is particularly intense, that is, above 950 calls per week. The indicator of geographic diffusion of influenza activity is classified in four categories: null, microbiological evidence of influenza activity and the intensity of influenza activity is low; sporadic, the intensity of influenza activity is low and there are isolated cases of laboratory-confirmed influenza infection, or there is only one outbreak in an institution; local, the intensity of influenza activity is found in some provinces above its baseline, with isolated cases of laboratory-confirmed influenza infection, or several outbreaks have occurred; and generally, when there is an increase in influenza activity above the baseline in several provinces which together account for more than 50% of the population of Galicia, with an isolated incidence of influenza infection confirmed by the laboratory. And finally, the indicator of the evolution of influenza activity, which is qualified in three categories: increasing, the intensity of influenza activity increases compared to the previous week; decreasing, the intensity of influenza activity decreases compared to the previous week; and stable, the intensity of influenza activity does not change compared to the previous week. This method – as I said – is quite effective and allows to estimate in advance of two-three weeks and with an error margin of more-less a week the flu peak, except for the abnormal seasons as were the two past. However, the magnitude of the wave, the size that will reach, that is, the number of people affected in the population is not possible to anticipate it, because there are no fixed patterns. The World Health Organization has always recommended since 1978 that vaccines have three strains: two of the influenza A and one of the B, because since that year they have been circulating H1N1, H3N3 and B viruses. And here we have the first discordant factor in this season with respect to the past. The flu is mostly produced by strain virus A H3N3 instead of by virus A H1N1, the pandemic virus. Let's make one more point: in front of the H1N1 strain, children and middle-aged people are more likely, between 40 and 60 years of age, and in recent seasons it has had a lower intensity, i.e., it has affected a smaller number of people, partly because it has been circulating without any anti-hygienic change since its appearance in 2009, so the general population already has immunity from it. However, it can cause more serious paintings in a direct way, which translates into an immediate attribution of higher deaths. We saw him in the number of deaths in the 2014-2015 season: 53 dead in Galicia. However, the H3N2 strain affects more people over 65 years of age, therefore, with more basic pathology and which is usually aggravated, which generally leads to a greater need for assessment of their status for care services. The second important factor to take into account this year is that with our own data, and seeing the evolution until the first week of December, it was estimated that the peak of the wave would not occur before the second fortnight of January, and yet in Galicia it has moved forward, beginning the wave on the fiftieth week of 2014 and ending the peak on the second week of this year. In fact, we were the first autonomous community to be in an epidemic phase, as evidenced by the map of the Instituto Carlos III of the fiftieth week, above the threshold of 58-52. The map of the Institute of the fiftieth week clearly shows that the only autonomous community with an epidemic, at the threshold of the epidemic, was Galicia. In the last few weeks, we are already in the epidemic phase of most autonomous communities, although there are autonomous communities that are not yet in the epidemic phase. Another differential factor in this season is the epidemic curve, which tells us how the epidemic develops, that is, how fast cases appear. If we see this graph clearly that the epidemic level has reached itself in a very rapid way, unlike what happened in previous seasons, where the epidemic curves were much lower and with a period to reach the peak much slower. This means we've had a very rapid increase, many cases of flu in very little time. And finally, another relevant factor is that this year the rate of influenza vaccination in older than 65 years was 52.3%. Consequently, a high percentage of citizens vulnerable to influenza, this population group has not been vaccinated. Therefore, since these age strata add up to other risk factors, it has caused patients to arrive at more severe emergencies, with more complications and need more hospital income. In short, the flu wave began in the penultimate week of December, before the expected one, in the middle of the Christmas season and therefore in the vacation period for some of the staff. Its evolution, according to the record data, was: in the week fifty, 833 cases throughout Galicia; in the fifty and one, 1,278; in the fifty and two, 2,014; in the first of 2015, 2,209; and in the second, 2,954. It's also true that this didn't happen in all provinces at the same time or with the same intensity. And so, the beginning was first in the two integrated management structures of the south: in Ourense and in Vigo, aggravated in Ourense by the greatest ageing of the population – I remind you that already 30% of the population of Ourense is over 65 years old –, then continuing in Pontevedra and Santiago, then was The Coruña and Ferrol, the last affected Place. Also, as a result of this rapid evolution of the number of cases and of the population affected, there was a very high number of patients in very little time, both at the continuing care points and at the emergency services. Thus, comparing the period from December 17, 2014 to January 15, 2015 in relation to the same period of last year, previous season 2013-2014, we see that in hospitals more than 3,185 emergencies were registered, 87,865 compared to 84,580, with an increase of 3.76%, in a context in which in the whole of 2014 only 478 emergencies were increased in the Welsh hospitals, 0.05%. This unusual situation could be solved with great effort from the professionals, but with sufficient guarantees, and thanks to them and the introduction of improvements in the Emergency Service in Galicia in recent years. At the continued attention points of the Galego Health Service, 19,157 more emergencies were dealt with, from 151,437 to last year, 132,800, 14.48% above the previous season. I mean, the increase was much more significant in primary care than in hospitals, which means that patients are more attached to the device they have near their home, although 48% of the hospitals' emergencies are still chosen in green or blue. I would like to thank the fact that our citizens are showing an ever-increasing improvement in the use of health services, making for these attention greater use of the continuing care points than hospital emergencies, thus contributing to a better management of these situations. But we have to admit that all of this has resulted in very important management difficulties, but I also want to make it clear that once again in the Galician Health Service we offer a quality response to all patients. And that's thanks to the professionals, who were able to make the choice always – and I always say – in time. The mean time between the arrival of patients to Emergency and the timing of the screening was only 1.04% higher than the previous season, ten with twenty-two minutes, compared to ten with eleven minutes. This is most important, because it implies that the level of severity of the patient's pathology that reaches the Emergency - the most important in this attention - was valued by professionals without appreciable delays. And with this it is possible to respond according to the needs of patients, in time to those classified as more severe – red and orange – and where the times – yellow, green and blue – could no longer be fulfilled as soon as possible. But by affecting, on the other hand, older and more pluripathological people, it also increases the number of people who need hospital admission. In particular, 1,436 more revenue was made, 6,317 compared to 4,881, a 9.65 % more income. This is indicative that the pathologies attended were not only more, but also proportionally more serious. The biggest difficulties were the draining of emergency services towards hospitalization, and that despite the fact that the moment was favorable, since, at the same time as the vacation period, the occupation of hospitals – especially surgically – was the lowest in the year. That's why I want to thank from here for the work of most professionals, who as always in times of difficulty are able to give the best of themselves by patients and organization. But I also want to make it clear that the management teams have been working since the flu wave started to give that response that patients needed and demanded professionals, and that their goal is to treat all patients with quality. [[Applause]] In this context, as an example of more relevant measures taken to deal with these moments of great activity from December 22 to January 18, we can highlight the following measures: up to 341 additional beds have been enabled, additional contracts and daily reinforcements have been carried out up to 277 and 348 patients have been transferred to concerted centres. Therefore, all the necessary resources were made available to patients and professionals with the greatest possible agility, given the circumstances already exposed to my appearance. And I also want to make it clear that surgical activity and care for patients, both urgent and programmed, has been guaranteed at all times with quality criteria, despite the high demand for care. We just had to reprogram Surgery and go through processes that didn't require entry into the University Hospital Complex of Ourense and the University Hospital Complex of Vigo. And I remind you that this is one of the measures taken in all times in order to respond to emergency patients, always priority in their attention. However, this does not mean self-comprehensiveness on our part; they know that we are self-critical and we always try to evaluate all our actions to improve. We think it's our obligation, our duty. So we'll review each and every aspect of this season with the professionals, in order to see where we can improve to avoid situations like those that have occurred in the past few weeks, and that are, of course, not the attention we need and we want to give to our patients. We'll review our prediction system to try to be more precise. We'll review the contingency plans of the centers, so that the answer is faster and more suited to demand. We'll review the influenza vaccination campaign to increase rates, both in citizens and professionals. And, above all, we will continue to work to improve our attention to chronic and pluripathological patients in all those aspects that avoid decompensation of them: home hospitalization, implementation of the comprehensive Plan of Care to patients with EPOC – published –, priority attention by primary care professionals according to stratification and all the actions collected in the Galician Strategy of attention to chronicity – next publication. And now, ladies and gentlemen, let's talk about hepatitis C. This is a serious disease that is essentially acquired by contact with the blood of sick people, and of which most of those affected still don't know how to suffer it. In Spain, the estimated number of infected can reach 500,000. Many of the patients received transfusions in the past, at times prior to the physiological diagnosis of hepatitis C itself, when it was impossible to control the aforementioned transfusions. Even health professionals suffered needle punctures throughout their professional life. It is also due to injections of drug abuse by shared use of xiring machines and other pathways of infection. In many cases, the origin of the infection has never been clarified, and it is also common to coincide with other viruses such as HIV. Usually, infection is chronic and has a long period of absence of symptoms, up to thirty years. But a large proportion of it progresses inexorably and the liver leads to liver cirrhosis or to hepatocarcinoma, and eventually to death. In recent years we've been in existence at a real outbreak of new drugs. Two protease inhibitors appeared in 2012. Two more drugs were authorised in 2014. And in 2015 it predicts the appearance of two or three more. According to the information reported by the laboratories and the results of the clinical trials carried out so far, new treatments appear to be very effective against hepatitis C, and may allow in less time and without only side effects to overcome the disease; even percentages of success above 90% are reported. In view of this, I must say, first and foremost, that Galicia works with the Ministry of Health and the rest of the autonomous communities with the ultimate objective of ensuring access to these patients, like all other citizens, in terms of equity throughout the national health system. And also in Galicia we're treating these patients according to the criteria set by experts on the subject and according to scientific evidence. And we will continue to do so as scientific criteria adjust, as new data are generated and new therapeutic possibilities are introduced. At the meeting of the Interterritorial Council of the National Health System, held on 14 January 2015, an agreement was adopted unanimously between the Ministry of Health and the seventeen autonomous communities – including, of course, Galicia – to develop a strategic plan at the national level to address hepatitis C disease. In this environment, in the Galego Health Service, we will continue to work with the Ministry and with the rest of the autonomous communities to develop this national strategy of hepatitis C, through which, with the participation of national and international experts, we will, first of all, obtain a register and database of the National Health System, a fundamental tool for understanding the scope of the problem and determining objectives and the results to be achieved throughout the national health system, and always having clear that this is a state problem. I'd say more: it's a problem of all states. Even so, in this Interterritorial Council, the commission was approved to develop this strategy, led by Professor Rodés, and will also be responsible for updating technical criteria, which in each case should be applied according to the therapeutic availability and scientific evidence for the treatment of these patients, taking into account – as I said – that in 2015 new drugs will be incorporated into the existing therapeutic arsenal. The most important thing, and what should be clear, is that all patients who meet the criteria are having and will have access to the medication they need. Sergas is also guaranteeing the homogeneity and equity of access to new antivirals, thanks to the counselling carried out through a college commission, composed of optional specialists in the treatment of this disease and who evaluate each and every one of the possible cases susceptible to treatment for this disease. In this way, it is guaranteed that those patients who meet these clinical criteria for this medication receive treatments in a homogeneous manner throughout Galicia, thus also ensuring equity. We must remember that Spain is a pioneer in the introduction and financing of these new medicines. So it was with the drugs that appeared in 2012, and so it's with the new drugs that are appearing. Only four countries in the European Union, in addition to Spain, have now introduced these new therapies into their funding. We are not faced with an exclusive challenge of Galicia, not even Spain, but with a change that affects European and even global orbit. So we must align ourselves with Europe in search of joint solutions. Nothing more for now, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-01-27-DSPG095.u60	Thank you very much, Counselor. Round of parliamentary groups. Socialist Group, Mrs Acuña do Campo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-01-27-DSPG095.u61	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies. Counselor, at last! see how it cost you to come here face to face, despite having the public health system in an unprecedented situation: widespread collapse, Mrs. Mosquera, of all the hospitals in Greece, and also maintained in time. Still, today you come here the trail, from Mr. Feijóo's parapet and trying to use the sick people of hepatitis C as a lid. Mrs. Mosquera, the flu – which, by the way, repeats itself year after year – the only thing she did was to make clear that her management is a real disaster and that between you and Mr. Feijóo – her ideology – after six years in front of the Government, they have completely dismantled public health and, in addition, the means of privatizing. The health policies that Mr. Feijóo thinks and that you execute, by the way, without requisitioning those cuts, sporadics and privatizations cause us to run badly every day, Mrs. Mosquera, that we are already going very fair and that we are out of our daily lives thanks to the efforts of the people, the workers of the public health system. So, when for some reason – it's called flu or summer diarrhea – the demand is increased, irremediably the collapse and chaos appear. And as well as every year, we're getting worse, because that collapse and chaos are also getting worse. And in the face of this serious situation, Mrs. Mosquera, there are no excuses, no smoke curtains in the form of epidemiological conferences – as we have just been released here – or much less want to use the pain and despair of people who are ill with hepatitis C to cover their most absolute ineptitude. Look, Counselor, you'd have to get here on your own and not the trail to explain clearly and without lies, and without looking for guilty absurdities, what's happening in our health. It's not that all the Greeks and the Greeks had agreed to get sick on the same day, or that we're talking about an unknown and unpredictable epidemic. It's about the flu, counsellor, just like every year. Although I have to say that now and after having cut more than 2 million to the vaccination game, we also have problems with vaccines. You should have said the truth: that the problem is that you, by the mandate of your ideologist – I insist – have been using cuts for more than six years; more than six years of retirement without retiring or hiring anyone; that you have been keeping beds and plants closed all year long; that you buy health supplies in the Chinese to save and then that material doesn't solve; that by budget adjustments, Mrs Mosquera, we have suffered until drug depletion; explain, yes, yes, that these generalized privatizations only seek the business of friendly companies but at the expense of deteriorating the public; that they have been lying to the citizen, as, of course, very clear with what you have done with the popular legislative initiative of the HULA, while the lights are still drawn from the roads to receive radiotherapy treatment. Mrs. Mosquera, explain the disaster that causes health management to put the premiums, husbands and friends in front of the management and the bosses; all very peppers but nothing else. To explain the truth, that it is not another, Counselor, that you and Mr. Feijóo have been dismantling and using the Greek Public Health System for their own benefit. But, above all, I should have come here to reassure you, to reassure the concerned Greek citizenship and the desperate professionals of public health, announcing solutions, and not telling lies only seeking to save the guy. Solutions, Mrs Mosquera, possible, ready and effective, which we need to end this worrying situation. And the first solution we need is, of course, that you leave. The Socialists have raised more than one occasion in this House solutions to the problems in the emergency services, but you, always so left out, have ruled them out. The Socialists in the last Health Committee of December asked and we were concerned about the situation of the Welsh emergencies in the face of the foreseeable flu epidemic. And you, sovereigns and inepts, denied the problems; everything was controlled. Moreover, we were told textually that "the collapses existed only in our imagination." Well, Mrs Mosquera, what now? Now you just have to come, explain, compromise solutions and finish this show by saying good-bye. Only in that context, Mrs Mosquera, would his apologies and those of the President be acceptable. Because goodbye, Mrs. Mosque, is the only option left to you after you have been publicly rejected by Mr. Feijóo. By the way, the same Mr. Feijóo who calls for changes in socialists through the mess of the website and of Povervisa. Well, look, I have to tell you that it's a lie, it's not on Povervisa's website; I have to tell the spokesperson of the People's Party that is not a matter of tomorrow, it's a matter of having a key; and I have to remind all of you and Mr. President, who has been involved today in that cloak of democracy, that the Socialist Party has repeatedly asked for that convention that you have chosen for months, and in an unprecedented respect to the House and democracy if you have always denied us. Today, curiously, he showed up at a time when I don't know which side of the board. That same Mr. Feijó who tells you what to cut, who commands you what to delete and who also tells you what to privatize. [[Applause]] By the way, that to put your husband for that, passing over even the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia, you were alone. Look, saying goodbye is the only option, Mrs. Mosquera, which is left to you after the widespread reprobation of citizenship, which runs from complaint to complaint, from complaint to complaint, from claim to complaint and from protest to protest. As evidence that the Ombudsman does not manage complaints and warns us of the danger that the lack of personnel and lack of space in the emergencies can lead to errors and endanger people's lives. And you just have to say goodbye, Mrs. Mosquera, after the widespread reprobation of the health profession. I remind you that in the Mexoeiro they are on strike, at the CHUAC in the Prosecutor's Office, in Ourense the E.R.'s plus the internists plus the complaint pneumologists, in Ferrol we read that more than thirty-six hours in an Emergency Service are spent on patients and, in addition, without even eating. Reprobation of nursing, primary care, which denounces a wait of more than ten days to be attended. Reprobation of all trade unions, who speak of an unsustainable and indefensible situation, and ask that you be stopped for not knowing, for not wanting or for not being able to fix things. Counsellor, we are faced with the absolute and notorious failure of your management and of the public party's health policies. And in the face of this situation there is only one dignified and democratic exit: that you resign or that Mr Feijóo, that of the democratic impulse, will cease today. And you also have to say goodbye, Mrs. Mosquera, for this unforgivable attempt to use the sick people of hepatitis C as a cover.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-01-27-DSPG095.u62	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-01-27-DSPG095.u63	In fact, disease causes pain and suffering, and that does not heal with excuses. But those sick people terminals of hepatitis C are in critical condition and live the pain, suffering and death, and the last thing they need is more unmet promises, more commissions and more delays. Mrs. Mosquera, I'm finishing by formally asking you to leave, because both the president and the citizenry, as well as the whole of the Welsh public health professionals, are renouncing their management. So good-bye, counselor, and you shut the door on your way out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-01-27-DSPG095.u64	Joint Group, Mrs Iglesias and Mrs Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-01-27-DSPG095.u65	Good morning, Counselor; good morning at all. Thank you, President. Of all, it is known the horrendous chaos in the emergencies in recent dates, which coincide with the outbreak of the flu: waits for up to seven hours, professionals overwhelmed, shortage of beds and material... And despite the president's request for forgiveness, as if a sin were a matter of political responsibility, and the arguments of this counselor, which reduces the chaotic situation to a problem of comfort, Counselor, – Madam Counsellor, what a lack of respect! –...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-01-27-DSPG095.u66	Mrs. Churches.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-01-27-DSPG095.u67	...and of the few hidden intentions of blaming patients, because it seems that we are ill above our possibilities... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-01-27-DSPG095.u68	I'm asking for silence, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-01-27-DSPG095.u69	Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-01-27-DSPG095.u70	Continue, Mrs Iglesias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-01-27-DSPG095.u71	Thank you. He told them that it seems that we are the patients who are ill above our capabilities, because the report, which included the participation of several autonomic defenders – among them, the Ombudsman of the Greek People – issued yesterday by the Ombudsman of the people, Soledad Becerril, cannot be more damaging to their health policies. This report shows that the "graves" – literal – deficiencies in the Spanish Hospital Emergency Service turn this unit of attention into one of the existential areas where the greatest risk to patient safety and where, due to its saturation, the risk of human error and mortality increases. The study, which is entitled "Hospital emergencies in the National Health System: rights and guarantees of the patients", criticizes that the emergencies continue to represent "literal" "inadequacies" -suas word - and among which resident doctors assume an excessive degree of responsibility. The report requires the presence and adequacy of suitable professionals in all hourly intervals and denounces the excessive dependence in these services of resident internal physicians, who would at many times be supplicating the insufficiency of professionals from the various staff involved. In view of this situation, and given the importance of emergency services, the people's defenders are asking for the definition of a medical specialty and emergency nursing, which explicitly forms these professionals and defines clinical competences. As a matter of fact, the report denounces the "repetition" – also literal – of situations of saturation and criticism that are expected to be hospitalized if patients are placed in emergency units. This disrupts the management of the service and prevents the patient from being given the necessary care and ensuring his/her privacy and more privacy. But not only are the patients affected by their worst management, the people's defenders consider emergencies as risk contours for work stress and places conducive to the development of the known as "burnt worker syndrome", and denounce the lack of tools to limit these risks. Finally, the people's defenders warn that there is a significant incidence of adverse effects on preventable emergency services in most cases. But if this were little, this January, the State Confederation of Medical and Medical Unions of Independent Galicia recorded a written address to President Feijóo to resign if he is not able to solve the disastrous situation of the health emergencies. Regarding hepatitis C, Counsellor, "not one of the drugs" – according to the patients – "has come to patients who need it the most" – and I speak in the first person because it is a document of hepatitis C patients – for the despair of the affected people, who "we have been waiting for more than a year to receive the medication that can save our lives", as the virus continues to act without pause. "Syrrotic patients for years, with previous episodes of decompensation and intolerant to other more conventional treatment pathways, we received notification of refusal of treatment with stupor and distress." And that's how things are, Counselor. What else do you want to resign, ma'am? Cheers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-01-27-DSPG095.u72	Counsellor, the collapse of the hospital emergencies that you owe to the advance influenza peak is the result of the policies of reducing public spending applied by the People's Party in search of a model change that transfers health care to the private system, thus making a fundamental right to a very profitable business. We had to listen and read these days' public statements from the president, who says he's dedicated to dignifying public health. It's clear that you have no idea what "dignify" means. It says, however, that people have been deteriorating the image of public health for 20 years. I suppose it refers to the health advisors of the People's Party. He also did it says that there are people who do recognize that he is waiting for a bed on the floor. You, however, have dedicated yourself to throwing even better pearls, how to ensure that the quality of emergency care in recent weeks has been very high – which shows that you don't know what "help quality" means – and has reduced the collapse of emergencies to a lack of comfort. They didn't complain that they didn't have a quality mattress, precisely! But besides, you also say that the culprits are the flu and the citizens who don't get away with it. To vaccinate, you have to have, first, primary care that responds to requests for consultation immediately. The cuts, in your opinion, have nothing to do with them and, in your view, there's nothing needed to care for patients. Counsellor, they have been missing, to begin with, personal and bed-dwelling. Do you think staff aren't necessary to respond to emergencies? The sick suffered a six-hour delay measure to be cared for or fifteen to climb the plant. Trade unions, organizations in defense of public health, patients, all opposition and the people's valets say this is the result of budgetary austerity. And proof of this austerity is the non-replacement of staff, paralyzing general recruitment lists, and an obvious abuse of law use the pull lists, prepricing employment and committing an obvious fraud to Social Security, for not contributing weekly breaks, holidays or holidays. During Christmas, emergencies were fired for not covering primary care permits. There are optional strikes on the Measor precisely because of the malfunction of the E.R., long before the flu peak appeared. The same is true in the CHUAC, which has already been addressed to the Prosecutor's Office to investigate whether the next conditions in which it is working in public hospitals may constitute a crime. And you give me good health care! The unions report that surgical demands are met from the structural waiting list of patients who have been less than six months, but are not called those who have been five years. On occasion, it is true – you said in your intervention – that some patients do not make adequate use of hospital emergencies, but for that, to begin with, health education, information campaigns and, above all, to end the current saturation of primary care doctors' consultations. One of the main causes of these overcrowdings and collapses is the insufficiency of the primary care staff and hospital emergency services. More than 40% of the family doctors have coupons above 1,500 cards, they don't replace doctors or other professionals, absent doctors are replaced by active doctors, who have to assume their patients, thus increasing the collapse and creating waiting lists in primary care consultations. But in addition, coupled with the delays in diagnostic tests, this is still a cluster of disincentives that continue to carry primary care and the emergencies of hospitals. Besides, if we add a poorer, older population, with more chronic pathology, plus less budgeting and less personal, the public health system is getting to the limit. Sufficient and equitable assumptions, sufficient staff frames and the absences would provide a solution to these health problems. As for the patients...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-01-27-DSPG095.u73	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-01-27-DSPG095.u74	... – Finished already, President, thank you – for the hepatitis C virus, just ask you how much a life is worth, how much you spend on advertising and advertising that you could spend on medication. And besides, tell him he's lying, because in Galicia there's no access to the medicine. One HIV patient died in Cangas on Sunday for not receiving treatment. That's your great success. This wasn't a death...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-01-27-DSPG095.u75	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-01-27-DSPG095.u76	...by illness, it was a [...]. The advisor's. [[(By order of the President and in accordance with Rule 106(3) of the Rules of Procedure, this expression is withdrawn from the Journal of Sessions.)]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-01-27-DSPG095.u77	Mrs. Martínez, I beg you to maintain cordiality and decorum. So I'm going to remove the last expression from you. Thank you very much. BNG Group, Mrs Prado Cores.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-01-27-DSPG095.u78	Good day to all and all. Today I come here, Mrs Mosquera, to account for two issues that are clearly visible: the consequences of their policies, of the policies of the People's Party, and their roadmap to dismantle the Welsh public health. They're two alarming cases, but unfortunately they're not isolated, they're not an exception, they're a sample button, a dramatic one, two dramatic sample buttons of decisions to convert health into business. The business at the expense of the pain and suffering of the people, and the business at the expense of the public money of the Greeks and the Greeks. I, again, will almost ask you next time if I don't know if it's worth your coming here, because today I had the feeling of being on one of those phone calls and listening: if you want statistics, press 1; if you want propaganda, press 2; if you... you've come here to do a shortcut of information and not assume any responsibility, just make a data slip, only and exclusively, Mrs. Mosque. You can't do more with less. His speech – which has been saying for years – about what they do more with less is a lie; with less it only gets less. With fewer budgets, fewer resources, less materials, less personnel, less infrastructure, abandoned infrastructure, with more repairs and more cuts, the only thing that can be achieved is these dramatic situations in which we are today; the situation that they are experiencing in the emergency services and the situation of hepatitis C patients. They're playing with fire, Mrs Mosquera and ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, because they're taking the sick to the desperate situation of true despair; a situation that is no longer tolerable. And this situation responds to a premeditated plan, a deliberate policy, a policy aimed at reducing the means of public health to deliver them to private health. Look at one thing, Mrs Mosquera and ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party: today the patients of hepatitis C in Galicia are struggling, just as we are struggling all the people we defend the public health of Galicia and we defend that health serves to cure people. And they're in mourning because, indeed, yesterday, one more person died because of hepatitis C; avoidable death. A death avoidable because he's a person who's been waiting for the one who's been treated for a year. Avoidable, and when something is avoidable it's not an accident, it's... it's responsible – it would say a big word – and it's responsible for its policies. The agility that you have to put in place measures to rescue the banks, to change the Constitution from morning to night, to rescue highways, to inject billions to save the old ones, the upper ones, of course, are not having that agility to save people; they are not having that agility to respond to people's anguish. How would you feel, Counselor, if you were ill with hepatitis C and knew that there was treatment and for economic reasons they would not release it and condemn you to die or give it to you when there is no remedy? How would you feel? That is the question that should be asked: how would they feel? Because it's not a question that there's no remedy, there's treatment, and you're putting the economic issue above people's health. You told the representatives of hepatitis C patients that you weren't willing to pay the pharmacists an extra Euro. Don't pay them, but make them conditions, express them patents, do what you consider appropriate; fight for the lives of the Greeks and the Greeks, do whatever you want, but save people's lives. It's not money, it's life, and I hope your lives, your family members, your acquaintances, have the same value as the rest of the Greeks and the Greeks. [[Applause]] You came here today again to do a distraction maneuver: expert committee. The previous minister said a year ago that everything was going on, that from October they were going to have medication, Rajoy said the same thing, Feijóo said the same thing and you said the same thing again. We're at the end of January and there's no treatment for most patients, there's a commission of experts, what a chance!, in front of which a person is linked to a pharmacist, to Pfizer. Casualties! He used to say the spokesperson for the BNG, referring to the president of the board: "I'm afraid to take care of chickens," again the foxes took care of chickens: a person bound to a pharmacist in front of a commission to determine to whom patients are dispensed or where their medicines are not available. You talk again about smoke and distractions, while people are dying. We're not talking about jokes here, we're not talking about issues that can wait, we're talking about life or death. And really, the patients are sick, and in the BNG too many falsehoods, too much cynicism and too many lies, Mrs Mosquera, too many lies already at this point. In fact, you can't do any less, and these days you have set a clear example, once again, of true demagogy with the emergency situation in Galicia. First of all, from not taking on reality, from not taking responsibility, which was within normal – it is something that happens every year – they went from it to minimizing the situation. They went from minimizing the situation to blaming patients to go too far to the Emergency and not to vaccinate themselves. And then, when the thing went out of their hands, to apologize to them, Mrs. Mosquera, to apologize to the president of the board and to you. The report that was presented yesterday by the people's defender was a disgrace! across your face, Mrs. Mosquera, because it was an amendment to the whole of what you are saying here that you are doing everything you can, and it was a yes!, a real beating all over your face, because that report of your people's valets – imagine if they were other valets of the people! – where it says that the risk for people's safety increases. That is, people die more; that there is no coordination between the different levels of care and social welfare space, that is, there is no coordination between primary and hospital care and between the other health care banks; that the templates are not dimensioned; that the working conditions are unacceptable; that there is a lack of patient rights. This is a minimum summary of that report, made by the people's valets, Mrs Mosquera. Then, if you like, deny it; it's there, written black on white. I mean, they all have against everyone, everyone who has something to say about health against: the sick; the associations of patients; the professionals, who are totally naked. You said here that once again it was the professionals, those who want to thank you... Don't thank him here, put his resources, hire people, budgeting, put public health in his proper place, not turning him into a second health care, not turning him into empty words. To the unions in front, Mrs Mosquera; to the defenders of the people, in front; protests, mobilizations, complaints in prosecution, strikes, letters to the president of the board and to you. What more do they need to realize that they are dismantling Galician public health and condemning the Greeks and the Greeks to an unsustainable situation of suffering? You're becoming the vets of public health in this country.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-01-27-DSPG095.u79	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-01-27-DSPG095.u80	What we've been reporting here for a long time now, that you're doing a cure for the rich and the poor, this past month has been completely verified. If you have private health resources, you should be right from the public centers, and they do so when people have been waiting hours or when they see the images, the images, Mrs. Mosquera, about how emergency services are, because they don't go directly to the private. Target achieved. Your goal of ending public health and benefiting private is achieved. Private health is in good health and the public is in the ICU. And you're just giving him palliative care, they don't intend to sandal, they don't intend to give him medication to cure public health, but their intention is unique and exclusively that private health enjoys good health. Whoever has money...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-01-27-DSPG095.u81	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-01-27-DSPG095.u82	...who pays for it, and who doesn't see himself in the situation that has come these days, waiting for more than a day to have a bed.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-01-27-DSPG095.u83	Thank you very much, Mrs. Prado. Parliamentary Group of the Alternative Glaga de Left, Mrs Solla Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-01-27-DSPG095.u84	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are in front of one more show that Mr. Feijóo is not the president of all the Greeks and Greeks. We already know this: he is not president of the defeated; he is not president of the young and young people who are sent to economic aid; he is not president of the queue of unemployment, of those who clean doors for four hard ones, of those who have no pension; he is not president of whom the milk of their children is water, or of those who produce that milk for four pesos; he is not president of those who expect to work, or of those who suffer ERE; he is not president of who loves culture, of those who struggle for education, of children and children who lie with four blankets. Perhaps he is president of the bank; perhaps he is president of the entrepreneurs, of the operators, of those who do ERE when there are benefits; president of the multinationals; president of the builders, of the pharmaceuticals; president of the private, like you, Mrs Mosquera. But, of course, what is not president for the health care workers, for those who work at night, for those who move camels when there are no camels left in the hospital, for those who look for sisters for sick people, because there is neither material nor even so that the patients can pee. He is not a president for whom he leaves half an hour late from his job, exhausted or physically exhausted, but, above all, psychologically knowing that the lives of people depend on those resources which the Government destroys, powerless by the situation. Nor is it the one who waits ten hours in the febrile waiting rooms, tachycardic, dizzy, crazy, crying, impatient. And it's not who begs you to comply with his word; who dies from a disease that is practically curable, solutions; who loses relatives, friends, friends, friends, because they die from hepatitis C and they are not given the new treatments. It's not because today you considered that a matter as a priority such as health care was not, that health personnel, that sick people, and that people with hepatitis C are not worthy that this gentleman should come to this House, not even now sitting here when we're talking about public health. Dignity remains for these people, the same as this government lacks. And send it to you, Mrs Mosquera, who says how everything goes well and that everything is under control. That prepared speech, an argumentary that goes through its ranks, repeats it one day, another day, another day, while privatizing, cutting, while causing pain and even death. You're right about something, Mrs. Mosquera: everything's fine. Good for businessmen, good for economic powers. That's exactly your plan, and it goes great. And you can go out smiling in the media or sketch that tetanic smile. Tetania is the one you impose on public health, as opposed to death. In nominal terms, 374 million euros less since the arrival of your Government, 10% less; which in total assumes that you have deducted one out of every five euros from our public health. Then you can blame the flu or people for not vaccinating, as you did before, but the reality is that you're subtracting one out of every four or five euros from what we contributed to our health care and care. Two thousand fewer people, of human beings working in our public health, of all categories, but you can blame them for not being vaccinated. Eliminating 450 public beds since you rule, but it's the fault of respiratory disorders. Beds closed at Christmas when there were collapses and high fluency in the E.R., but it's the fault of the patients who go to the E.R. Lists of waiting for them to remain the same despite their bad law, but here nothing happens at all. You don't have to think of those people who wait in the waiting list as well, when they get worse, they have to go to the E.R. Supplies that fail; there are no shirts, but there are no blankets; there are no cardboard cones, there are no medication, but it's not your fault, hospitals collapsing because they do. He denounces this – said the BNG spokesman here – to the people's defender, former member of the People's Party. Look at you! Just like if hospitals collapsing, they fatten business accounts at the expense of our health. No problem here, nothing happened at all. And that's why in the middle of a public health crisis, you pull out the smoking curtain, as they've been trying to divert the attention of that contract of privatization from high health technology. Multimillionaire privatization, excessive theft of public archives and a danger to our health. But you thought by taking out a couple of press notes, it would shut down the outrage. But indignation grows because, even above all, of the health care and the patients who suffer with the beatings, we sell the privatization of the heart of the public health of Galicia as a kindness, as something necessary, as if you couldn't manage without privatizing. And that's what they're trying to move, that's the plan. I've already told you here once: Minimum state; it's theorized. Someone wrote it a long time before you even dreamed of being in that corner, long before these interventions were written that prepare you to come to this plenary. Today you must account for yourself, Mrs Mosquera, because you haven't done it before, why they keep moving to private and closing public beds; why they still don't open the afternoon shifts in consultations and surgery as approved in this House, while they also allowed before Christmas surgery on peonadas; why they don't replace the casualties; why they don't strengthen the staff before the services are collapsed. Tell me, Counselor, how in a country that says it's the first world somebody waits on a camel or a chair ten hours; how in a hospital you can spend two days without beds to enter; how in a hospital there may not be blankets to cover the cold. This won't be Greece, but it seems more and more. You're letting sick people of hepatitis C die too, too, without explaining it; at most, lies, big assumptions. A year since sofosbuvir's authorization and 4,000 dead and dead in the state since then. The Ministry abandons people to their luck and you look to the other side, the important thing is to facilitate the business of multinationals. First, you refused to negotiate the price by pressing the pharmaceuticals, as other countries in the Union have done, and now you continue without the available medication for the working class, of course. Because whoever has money and obviously can afford that 60,000 euros can buy the medicine if it's prescribed, but the population's bulk obviously doesn't have those funds. Pharmaceutical speculation, Counselor, take us to this point. You've already benefited from this company before, because Gilead went with Roche who marketed the Tamiflu, remember? Do you remember the millions that we spent on absolutely nothing, the millions that were given to these multinationals? You know what Gilead is, the company that makes sofosbuvir? It's a multinational that belongs to a U.S. investment fund, destined for policing, doing business, driven by the U.S. government since the 1990s, related to the Bush and Ransfelt Government, to the United States Army. Who are your partners here? Capital Group, which is also Santander and BBVA, and JP Morgan, Santander, and Blackrock, Telefónica and Repsol; funds related to investment funds and pension funds. Then you're called patriots when you don't defend yourself here, when you say you defend your people, as Feijó did this morning when he was talking about defending national sovereignty. They don't defend both the Galician and the working class of the whole state, because their only homeland, Mrs. Mosquera, their...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-01-27-DSPG095.u85	It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-01-27-DSPG095.u86	...and the rest of the Government is the homeland of money. Do you know that you could produce sofosbuvir as a generic? Of course he does. You know perfectly well that would significantly lower the price. You say Gilead's going to leave her the drug in 25,000 euros, but it's just that the generic cost is 100 euros. But since you're not the sick or those who die, it's all right. And while the central government remains in submission to industry, you're not moving a finger either. They delegate to the central government and this to the pharmaceutical company itself, when pharmaceuticals are present in the committee itself. You don't rule anymore, you run companies right now. Mrs. Mosquera, – I told you once – about you we can no longer expect anything more positive than leaving and resigning.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-01-27-DSPG095.u87	People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Santalices.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-01-27-DSPG095.u88	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning to all of you. Let me first express my regret for the passing of the great oresan artist Antonio Quesada Porto. Go to him our memory. Having already come into the matter that brings us to this Parliament yesterday, the spokesman of the Socialist Parliamentary Group in the Permanent Deputy who celebrated the change of trend that had taken place as a result of the Permanent Deputy's approval of the presence of the President of the Government and the presence of the Health Counsellor. These two facts happen to President Núñez Feijóo's government. Historically, here the Permanent Parliament has never authorized attendance and extraordinary debates have been held. So, in this sense, let me support and praise the practices that have to do with what our president today expressed here in this Parliament. That's called an example. [[Applause]] And I also have to regret – and so I say – the two skates that happen in this session – and I also regret, Mr. Spokesman, that they have led you to this mistake that should not have happened, I regret because you already know the personal appreciation I have –: One, it's been a week saying that the president of the board was here to avoid the presence of the health adviser. This is being said in many media. The reality is that today the President of the Government and the Health Counsellor are present. First mistake. Second mistake: he's skating heavily at Povisa's, but it's a spooky skating. And I regret that this skating has taken place because this parliamentary group has also asked that the convention be published, and the agreement is published. And I'm not a computer expert, I'm not, but I think that's very easy to access; there's no key here, the only key that was the program that was run by Mr. Balbín. There is no key to access this. [[Laughter]] So they tell me: profile of the contractor, no key, and there perfectly appears on the website the contract of Povervisa. If you are unable to do so, the People's Parliamentary Group, our workers in the People's Parliamentary Group will be able to explain how you can access so that you can have the Povervisa agreement. And if not, Madam President, let him come. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Look, skating...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-01-27-DSPG095.u89	Mr. Gallego!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-01-27-DSPG095.u90	Mr. Gallego, don't get into the matter, you didn't suffer, you won't skate now. At the moment, you didn't suffer. [[Murmurs.]] Sneaky skating! At yesterday's session we agreed that this topic should be discussed, because it is a matter of concern to the population. Not everyone perceives the attention or sensitivity about the absence in the same way. And, indeed, there is a concern within society. It therefore seemed important to us that we had to debate this issue. And I also find it important to make two statements. I believe that there are certain debates in Parliament that can be intense debates, hard debates, but they must be prudent debates. I believe that in this matter, which concerns and worries citizenship, it can be incisive, it can be hard, and it must also be so, but I think we must be reflexive. Words like "killers," words like "killing with conviction," I don't think they belong to a Parliament. Whosoever will say it, of course in my mouth, I will never make such a comment. If we focus more strictly on the issue, the National Health System has two ways of entering: one is scheduled attention and the other is urgent attention. The program is known to all: through the head doctor you can refer the patient to a specialist, who can be an outpatient or hospital; a single entry door in this care area. But in urgent care we do find ourselves with other characteristics. Where can urgent attention be given? In primary emergencies, up to 17 hours, the CAPs will then enter into operation, at their own continuing points of attention, in hospital emergency services, and of course also in 061, let's not forget this. Here are, therefore, four entrance doors. We could debate the convenience of so many doors or not, or analyze how these doors are, but today is not the debate. Since these days the question was focused on hospital emergency services, I would call it saturation, I don't think the word "colapse" should proceed, we can talk about saturation. I think this is where we're talking about it. First, it is a theme that affects the whole of the national health system, at different times, but affects the whole of the national health system. No autonomy is exempt from this, none. Now, what is true is that some autonomies deal with the problem in one way or another. I said yesterday in the Permanent Deputy that, for example, Catalonia opts for a system that is much more effective, that is to close for them, but who pays for it is the patients. Health care, and here we have talked a lot – and I think it's okay – of the report just presented by the people's valets. But that report – which I also read – also says some things that are very important for this debate, and says that "urgent health care in Spain has an important weight," very important, "on the volume of benefits that the National Health System has." By the way, an attendance in Spain where there are no trees -- very important aspect. Spain is one of the few countries that has no helpers. That's what you guys here never remember, and I remember every time I can. One of the latest data – it is collected there in the report – gives very interesting figures. For example, in hospital emergency services, 26 million consultations are conducted in the year; this is certainly an important figure. This report, which refers to health barometers, continues to say that "hospital emergencies are used by 15% of the population". To me the first thing that comes up here is that I'm shocked by this data: 15% of the population is conducting 26 million consultations. I leave this data for your analysis. I repeat: 15% of the population generates 26 million queries. It also says the report – which is important for the debate, so that we can draw conclusions – that "a 25% of the population that attends emergency services is over 65 years old." So there's an associated pathology. He also says there's a similar percentage, that they're under 16, but they don't have so much pathology and therefore less evidence to perform. This illustrates some things that are important in the debate. And another very important fact stands out: "40 percent of the population who attends the Emergency also has social problems added." What features of this report? There is a progressive increase in hospital attendance in emergency services, especially in certain population groups. This gave the report. There is also a change in the trend of the entry door, as it becomes very important to the entry door through the hospital emergency services to the detriment of primary care services. I'm talking about what that report says, which I think is important too. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] There's also a high hospital attendance that obviously conditions the management of hospital beds, it's true, and also conditions the surgical activity. If we have the emergency pressure, if the priority is in Emergency, no one gets away that this is the priority in caring for, and that's causing a lot of hospital operations, but there's a clear answer to that issue. Frequentity in hospital emergency services – this report says, too, and we should reflect on this – is due to two fundamental causes: one is...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-01-27-DSPG095.u91	It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-01-27-DSPG095.u92	...—end, Madam President—the greatest accessibility the population has to the hospital, because it's a service that's working through a schedule that gives many more facilities, and the proximity of the smaller distance. And he also says, because there's a perception of users regarding hospital emergencies, that they have more means and that they better solve the problem. What is the purpose of my request to the Counsellor? See how we can change that trend. And this trend has to go through: continuing attention points; high resolution CAP; and let's talk about the figure of the specialist, based primarily on the internal medicine specialist so that primary health care doctors have a reference consultant and can discuss with him and consult on the topics that affect patients.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-01-27-DSPG095.u93	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-01-27-DSPG095.u94	And one last message because you talked about hepatitis C, a clear message: you guarantee treatment to everyone who meets clinical criteria needs it, and point. This is the most important thing.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-01-27-DSPG095.u95	Thank you very much, Mr. Santalices.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-01-27-DSPG095.u96	I think this message is clear and powerful. Nothing else, Madam President. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-01-27-DSPG095.u97	You have the word for the reply of the Health Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-01-27-DSPG095.u98	Thank you very much, Madam President. Madam President, I do not come to drag, I come to this parliamentary group's extraordinary first session and I come to the first session after the vacation period, this new stage. [[Applause]] I came here to talk about influenza and hepatitis C because you asked for it. I'm not hiding behind hepatitis C so I can't talk about the flu. In fact, I talked a lot more about influenza than hepatitis C, and then I don't hide behind hepatitis C, as it can't be any other way. And, of course, I can tell you that I have the utmost respect to patients, all of them: oncotoxics, hepatitis C, and all of the patients in our health system. Of course, it's on the website, it's on the contractor's profile, it's since December the Povervisa contract with all its pages, and so found those who sought it today, without any doubt. Mrs. Acuña, your credibility, I don't know mine, but yours leaves much to be desired. They are in the Journal of Sessions their opinions on the Manchester triage, and today no Hospital Emergency Service would be able to work without the Manchester system. It's a safety for patients and it's a safety for professionals this screening system, and it certainly improves the quality of care clearly in all emergency services where it's installed, and we've installed it progressively in everyone. When we installed it in Ourense I had to hear it from you in this House itself and in Commission 5th. And, on the other hand, comments like the ones you do are the ones that remain credibility to the vaccine, the A influenza in this case. Look, it's the World Health Organization that decides every year that vaccine is manufactured, every year, with technical criteria, and that's the vaccine that is manufactured. The vaccine that is purchased in Spain since we are made with a centralized contract for all autonomous communities. Yes, it's true that we've got better prices, it's true that we've managed to reduce the unit price of the vaccine. And this year I have to tell you that we bought 519,596 doses, of which we just unfortunately put 462,464; that is, we have to return 57,122 doses of vaccine. And I say "unfortunately" because it was because they didn't stand up. We already wanted these vaccines to be put in, because we would have avoided a lot of suffering and a lot of hospital income. So what I'm asking is that you help us get people vaccinated, and don't throw against the vaccine and don't say that we're buying -- as already said -- worse-quality vaccines. Of course, I don't know what you call spending. I don't know if to increase the number of generics and lower the pharmaceutical expenditure is to go against public health; I don't know whether to put in place the energy efficiency plan and reduce energy costs is to go against public health, but we're going to keep doing it and we're going to keep working on primary care, as we've been doing since we started. As you know, one of our biggest concerns is to draw attention to the place closest to the patients. And this effort and this ability we've done to make the CAP more resolutive and to make primary care at all. In the hospital emergency services in 2009 we attended 1,050,885 episodes of hospital emergency, in 2014, we went down to 961,342, which represents a decrease of 8.52% of the hospital emergencies. This represents 89,543 less urgent care in hospitals of the Galician Health Service. To put it right, I'll tell you, ladies, that this represents the number of emergencies -- I know they don't like numbers, but I like to work with numbers and not with impressions --
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-01-27-DSPG095.u99	Mr. Gallego!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-01-27-DSPG095.u100	...and this means the number of emergencies...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-01-27-DSPG095.u101	Mr. Gallego, you have a call to order.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-01-27-DSPG095.u102	... attended to the Hospital Complex of Pontevedra. And yet in the primary care CAPs, at the continued attention points, we attended 11,000 more episodes from 2009 to 2014. And this, ladies and gentlemen, with a lower derivation: 10 percent of emergency care. [[Applause]] This is really making primary care more resolute; this, ladies and gentlemen, is really fighting for primary care. And I'll tell them further: in Galicia no continuous attention was closed, in other autonomous communities if continuous attention points were closed. And I'll also tell them something else: despite having reduced these 89,543 emergencies, the presences in the Greek hospitals, the presence of doctors and nurses, they are still the same as in 2009; that is, there are no fewer professionals in the hospitals' emergencies despite the continued and progressive drop in all and each of the emergency services of the Greek hospitals. Look, when they talk -- and here I speak for all the ladies -- about the patient defenders' report, you have to read it through, because the first conclusion is that it says that physical structures need to be improved. Since we arrived, the physical structures of virtually all Galician hospitals have improved. It is true that the Emergency Service of the University Hospital Complex of Ourense was recently inaugurated, it was absolutely new when we arrived at the Government, it was – as I say – newly inaugurated. But since we've been in the government, we've opened Lugo's hospital, with emergencies that are dimensioned to the next 50 years of Lugo's citizenship. We reformed the emergencies of the University Hospital Complex of Coruña, where we invested more than 8 million euros, and with a dimension of more than 4,000 square meters. That's the reality. We're about to launch the new hospital in Vigo. This year, and in spite of the bold voices, which have also been heard, we will open the new Vigo hospital, with emergencies of more than 3,000 square meters, and where the two emergency doors will be unified: that of the Mexoeiro and the General, and in which for its implementation, and not only a new building, but also a cultural change and a change of procedures, are working the emergency service professionals for this change. We started the work of the Salnés Hospital, to provide you with a new Emergency Service, which is also very necessary. We need to expand the Barbanza Hospital, which also has an Emergency Service that needs to be reformed. And we're also developing the Plan Director of Coastal Hospital. As you see, ladies and gentlemen, if we pay attention to the first point in the Valador report, which says that infrastructure needs to be improved. Another two points that clearly collect the Valador is: "the widespread and homologable use of the method of selection for all patients." I've said before that the Manchester system is approved, and it's the choice system that's being used in all the Greek hospitals. Another of the points that recommends the report of the patient's advocates is the implementation of the electronic clinical history. As you know and as I have said many times, electronic clinical history is unique in the Galician Health Service, for both levels of care, which undoubtedly improves very clearly the interrelationship between levels of care, since primary care professionals and hospitals work with the same information with patients. Electronic recipe is another significant improvement, and the number of primary care consultations decreases by 3 million, which undoubtedly increases the time available for patients. The phone call, which we started last year, and in 2014 more than a million queries have already been made. This undoubtedly improves the accessibility of primary care and allows better consultation organization. The interconsult between primary and specialized, with magnificent results in Telecardio, Teleoftalmo, Telederma, etc. It is also working on all Integrated Management structures. The polymedicate program. All primary care professionals, both doctors and nurses, have information about the polymedicated patients in their cup, and this allows them to follow up on their patients. The stratification of patients, all professionals also have their own stratified coupon, with which they can design specific actions for those more fragile patients. The integrated program of EPOC and diabetes, which has already been published and is being implemented. We'll keep working with them, because it's the way to prevent patients from getting compensated. And, of course, prescription aid programs implanted in electronic recipe. This is to work for primary care, this is not empty words, these are concrete actions, which have been developed in recent years in the Galician Health Service. And so, ladies and gentlemen, it's not true, Mrs. Prado, I take responsibility for all the actions, not only of my own, but also of all the professionals, of all the managers of the Integrated Management structures. And I can assure you that they have been working since the first day that the flu epidemic was declared to respond – as I said – to citizens and to respond to professionals, and there is no doubt that they will continue to do so. The tech partner. Well, we've been working on it since 2010. So that right now it's a smoke curtain, the truth is it's hard to understand, because they've been working on it for quite a few years and with very good results. [[Applause]] By unanimity in the Interterritorial Council, by unanimity of all autonomous communities, it was decided that Dr. Rodés was the person in Spain who could coordinate and direct the Commission on Hepatitis C. Of course, that you would be able to question your professionalism at least seems risky, but, well, each one is the owner of his comments. Look, the theme of hepatitis C is not an economic problem, it's a problem of criteria, it's a problem of equity, it's a problem of ensuring that all patients in the National Health System have access to the same treatments with the same criteria, and that's the decision they made. The criteria are attached to the Ministry's website and the Galician Medicine Agency; they are known and are the ones applying the professionals, they are the ones applying the Hepatitis C Assessment Commission of the Galician Health Service and, of course, they are the ones that, when modified, introduced the changes that scientific evidence and the new medicines are being incorporated, we will continue to apply, because I believe that it is essential that equity criteria are established throughout the national health system and, of course, in all hospitals of the Galego Health Service. And I have to be very powerful, because all the patients who meet these criteria are being treated. Thank you very much and nothing more.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-01-27-DSPG095.u103	Thank you very much. Possibility of opening a special round of clarifications. Ladies and gentlemen, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-01-27-DSPG095.u104	Thank you, President. Mr. Santalices, what are historical is the collapses and what is also historic is that the guilt of these strikes is this honourable Member, because unfortunately Mr. Feijóo has come to presume that this House is already becoming very common. And, Mrs. Mosquera, it's good to boast, it's good to come and tell lies to the House, even if they're numerical, to come here and put tin medals. Stop talking and tell us: when exactly are you going to be taking the drugs that you've given each of these 3,000 – from some sources – Greeks and Galicians who are sick of hepatitis, who are desperate, scared, sad and indignant are waiting for you to tell them lies and get their pills? People, Counselor, who beg for the drug to come first than death, because death, Counselor, in many of them has a date. The question is whether you also have a date to give them the treatment they need. Less numeral speech, Counsellor, and tell us how many treatments have been dispensed in Galicia since November 1st, in which the public use of the young has been authorized. And don't lie again, because it's not seven hundred, not one hundred and peak, not ninety. Data and dates, Counselor, and no more commission announcements, or new protocols to change – as they say – what never changes, in the face of the despair of these sick people. Neither do promises, nor serve lies, nor much less the screams, Counsellor – and you know very well what I'm talking to you – to cure people in terminal situations because of hepatitis C. Nor do they serve the Manchester, nor any other kind of choice to end the collapses of the emergencies. Not even the makeup waiting lists, Mrs. Mosquera. Now we have to believe that the collapsed emergencies, the closed beds and plants and the scheduled surgeries put forward waiting lists improve. In the end, there is no need for scandalous privatization of health technology. Yes, you've been working on that for many years, but now you announce it, even though they say they're going to sue her in May, then why do you take it out now? Nor do we use the flaming Law of guarantees, which only seeks to privatize, nor that second opinion that will be so fast, so fast, but much more restrictive. Nor do they serve – I insist – those promises for people who are ill with hepatitis. I ask you from here for a little dignity, Mrs. Mosquera, because it's not worth everything. People aren't fooling around with mill wheels anymore. It's very clear that you're using the Health Council for your interest and your interest. And there's Povervisa, Mr. Santalices, and the skating in relation to Povervisa you had it when you justified that interesting agreement for the company with the continuity of the 1,500 workers of Povervisa. I'm informing you that there were only 1,300, but in addition to the fifteen days of signing that wonderful and interesting agreement, just for the company, they presented an ERE. That's skating. Interests, Counselor, your...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-01-27-DSPG095.u105	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-01-27-DSPG095.u106	...that adjudication to UTE, which chose precisely the company in which your daughter works; not to mention her husband's bossy again. They're very clear about their interests, what we don't know is what interest Mr Feijóo can have in keeping her in his post in the face of this disaster and after he's publicly rejected her. Maybe they'll be behind Mr. Martial Dorado's bills. In fact, he acted like that, apologizing and nothing else. I don't know if he'll be behind the entire illegal financing of the People's Party. I don't know either. But look, perhaps, there's some personal friend of the successful president of the profession. What you can't understand or tolerate is that a president who uses the House to disguise himself in this early Democratic Entrance in the face of an unprecedented health disaster is limited to rebutting it to you and apologizing.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-01-27-DSPG095.u107	End, please, Mrs. Acuña.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-01-27-DSPG095.u108	... – Finished already – And finished as I started, Counsellor: you can only do in front of the Health Council is resign. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-01-27-DSPG095.u109	Thank you very much, Mrs. Acuña. For the Joint Group, Mrs Iglesias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-01-27-DSPG095.u110	Thank you very much, President. I'm already clear, Counselor, the case that you make to the report of the people's valets. Now that I'm going to read you the communiqué from the Ourense Health Platform makes you a little bit more of a case on the basis of this platform, which is in favour of defending health. They say that, first of all, with everything that has happened, it is very easy to prophesy and predictable for the logical result, since, first of all, they are the guidelines of the ONS and the Spanish Ministry itself, concerning the problems of chronicity of patients. Secondly, Counsellor, the explosive mixture that results from adding to the current health situation the dependency cuts. Third, Counsellor, the regression applied to primary care services. Fourth, Counsellor, the cut in the number of health professionals, the product of austerity policies. There's not much left: tic-tac, tic-tac... in the administrations; there's little time left, eh! In all of this, priority should be given to economic performance-oriented management. If not, how do you explain that they don't give the medication to hepatitis patients? This will regret your conscience – I don't know if it's clear – until you die, it will stay in your consciousness all your life, because these sick people report that they demand our right to health and, therefore, immediate access to treatments already approved by the agencies and doctors who tell them. And this means condemning to death hundreds of patients who can't wait, because time is a luxury they don't have. And so he denounces the Platform that in the six years of government of Feijóo, and of Eloína Núñez in front of the unique management agency of the Board of Galicia in Ourense, the province of Ourense has not stopped losing hospital beds of chronic patients, a situation that worsens further from the delay of the new hospital. And so with all the collectives: defenders of the people, trade unions of professionals, patients, family members of patients and a host of people who show their discontent with their management. Didn't you think you'd listen to them? What about the exemption from treatment for chronic hepatitis patients who have not yet received it? Why lie? Do you think you're still dissimulating and talking about democratic impulses as they turn deaf ears? You're amazing! We're talking about health, our lives are on it, ma'am. Cheers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-01-27-DSPG095.u111	Thank you. I was removed from the "[...]". I don't know if [...], murder, denial of help. I ask the People's Party: what is it called when a person dies for denying him the medication that would save his life for purely economic matters? What would we call this if an oncotoxic patient refused chemotherapy or radiotherapy for economic reasons? What double morals does the People's Party have, which in the name of the right to life aims to limit the right to abortion, but once the person is born, he disentangles himself from his health and lets him die? Mr. Santalices, of course, chronic patients go a lot to public health; I don't know if what you want is to drop them from public health. Counsellor, before I gave her the data on how primary care is: abandoned. Primary care is essential. Health must be based on prevention, not healing or palliative care when diseases are aggravated. You're talking about CHUAC putting on flowers, because they're in the DA because it's collapsed since its inauguration. He's talking about electronic clinical history...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-01-27-DSPG095.u112	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-01-27-DSPG095.u113	...–I've finished – and new dependencies, but you don't talk about the lack of staff in health services. Fraud in recruitment, fraud in social security. But you're talking about Povervisa. If it's on the Council's website, of course, the concert is hidden. But there are other documentation I requested in writing, as is the management agreement; the list of waiting for specialized consultations; the cost of the concert in hand surgery, burned, maxillofacial; why is it authorized to violate Law 12/2013?; what are the nosocomial infections, pressure ulcers, returns, complications transfers, complaints of patients in Povisa?; why does it not provide that assessment committed to the People's Valedor on the quality of care and the survey of satisfaction? Counselor, you mind. You'd probably be the winner of the Guinness record of the lie. It's you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-01-27-DSPG095.u114	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. Time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-01-27-DSPG095.u115	All right, so nothing.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-01-27-DSPG095.u116	Parliamentary Group of the Galician Nationalist Block, has the floor to Mrs Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-01-27-DSPG095.u117	I don't know how to qualify things that were said here anymore. Mr. Santalices had the rash to say there was saturation but not collapse. I think you can go to any hemerotheque and see the images of collapsed runners; people who were in chairs, old people, people with oxygen; people who were in chairs for hours, who waited more than a day to be hospitalized; people in paddles, where they were put their cribs in their pads, where they were asked without any kind of intimacy. And that's what the professionals tell him, the patients tell him, and he gave the report of the people's valets, Counselor. He doesn't say you have to do those things you said; he says it's not working. No, then if you want, we can have a specific commission where we analyze that report. He says they're not working, that the templates aren't dimensioned, that the professionals are under stress, that coordination isn't working. Say all that, Mrs. Mosque. And, look, you've had the defecatement, Mr. Santalices, to say that all those sick with hepatitis are getting the medication. What sick, Mr. Santalices, what sick, Mr. Santalices? Those who actually meet the established criteria, restrictive criteria and criteria that everyone is saying do not guarantee assistance to everyone who needs it. Look, is it possible to tell me what date is the last IPT, that is, the therapeutic positioning report?, when did it change?, when did it determine who it was administered to? Did they modify after all the ads you said? No, Counselor, they didn't change it. And you know perfectly well that rules have been laid down to doctors tremendously restrictive and that, in addition to being restrictive, those who theoretically enter those criteria are having all sorts of obstacles to be administered. That's right, that's what the sick are saying, that's what they're saying, that's what they're saying, that's what they're saying, that's what they're saying, that's what they're saying, that's what they're saying, that's what they're saying, that's what they're saying, that's what they're saying, that's what they're saying, that's You're playing with the words once more. They're being treated all those who meet the criteria that you've established, but they're totally restrictive and don't respond to the needs that this collective needs. They play with words and they play with people's lives, they play with people's lives. I've told you before: too many lies, too many half truths, too many falsehoods. You said you had to meet the criteria of equity. What does equity mean? Whoever has money right now can have the medication, with which there's no fairness. If one can pay for it and the other can't pay for it dies, there's no fairness. Don't lie! It's just that it's embarrassing. What is equity when someone in charge can pay for it and who doesn't die?, what equity do you mean?, what? Tell them who are out there and who know there's a medication that can cure them and that they live in distress because they can't access it. Do you call it equity? Well, the truth is, there's no fairness. Like the whole emergency thing, they dare hide behind statistics. And we here the BNG denounces a situation and also propose measures. Because the emergency situation of these days doesn't happen by chance, has causes and has a solution. And the solution is a complete change in the course of its health policy. The solution is that primary care is given; the solution is that all beds are permanently opened...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-01-27-DSPG095.u118	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-01-27-DSPG095.u119	...from the health service of the hospitals of this country, which do not open themselves by accounts when it is almost inevitable, when they have already derived sick from private health; that they immediately open these beds and those plants and unlock the beds that are blocked; that they dimension the templates; that they end up at the rest rate. There are alternatives, it's not inevitable, it's not the fruit of an exaggerated peak of flu, it's the fruit of the measures of dismantling the health to which you have subjected the health of this country. Just like the condition of the sick and the disease of hepatitis has a solution. And the solution is that they give you treatment, that there's no scientific evidence, and if there's any evidence to give you here now, Mrs Mosquera, that you say there's no cure level of more than 90% with the application of these drugs...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-01-27-DSPG095.u120	Please...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-01-27-DSPG095.u121	If you have any reports that prove that this is not true, present it here today in this House, and if you do not present it again, you will lie. And you will be and you are disabled to come here to defend no other position.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-01-27-DSPG095.u122	Thank you very much, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-01-27-DSPG095.u123	For which we ask in writing, we ask you here and we say again: Mrs Mosquera, as an executioner of lethal policies...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-01-27-DSPG095.u124	Mrs. Prado, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-01-27-DSPG095.u125	...in the People's Party's health matter, you, if you had dignity, should go home.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-01-27-DSPG095.u126	Left Galician Alternative Group. Mrs. Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-01-27-DSPG095.u127	Thank you, President. Mrs. Mosquera, you know it's a mistake to say that if everyone had put the vaccine, there would be less urgency. I don't know where that relationship comes from and how you can guess that people wouldn't have come to the E.R. for any other reason or even for flu. You know that not all serotypes go to the vaccines. They talked about making the CAP more resolute, where?, where are those more resolute continuous attention points, which are increasingly less personal and less resourceful? Do you know how to handle traffic? They don't have any antibody suits. Do you know you've had to go to the hospitals' emergency room asking for materials for years? Do you know that they have less and less professionals working? Choose Manchester, don't get tired of repeating it. They implement the selection without making it more personal, and so what they do is they overburden, why? Because the staff they put in some Emergency Service isn't enough to bear the workload that increases with that triage, especially for professionals and nursing professionals. You know that. They expanded the CHUAC emergencies, yes, but without putting more professionals, with which they now have the same emergencies, with more surface and less personal. So they're even worse. And you – it must be that since you don't go there – you don't know about the situation in which professionals work. When did you go through the E.R. during these collapses? I was. Have you been? I didn't see her, nor did the professionals see her. They didn't talk to you because you won't and you don't know what's going on in public health. Look, the problem of hepatitis C is an economic problem, not what you said here, that it was a scientific problem. That's fake. The government had a cost ceiling of 125 million euros to buy these treatments and, therefore, there's a top number of medications you plan to buy. He's talking about medical criteria when drugs and these criteria are already implemented, and these drugs are based. There's no public money to allow these people to access these drugs in the pharmacies. Of course, if you have 60,000 euros, you can buy these drugs. The criteria have to be restricted to you and the central government, because with 125 million euros you'll already tell me how many drugs you're going to buy at the price you want to sell them Gilead, because, of course, it would give around 4,000 treatments throughout the state. We don't know exactly why the minister, firstly, and the current minister continues to refuse to give the exact figure of how much it will cost us the joke that you don't want to negotiate or work so that treatments go cheaper and you can treat more patients. Because you decided you'd prefer to facilitate the pharmaceutical business. You've avoided pressing the company and have prevented this medication from happening as a generic drug. It's your decision, it's a political decision, it's not a medical or scientific decision. Scientific criteria, Mrs Mosquera, are valued before, when the Medicines Agency gives green light to the medicine, not later, when patients and patients have the expectation of healing and they see they die day by day. Mrs. Mosquera, you haven't been able to dismiss any of the things I said in the intervention: the facilitation of these private businesses. You know you don't paint anything else here but being an arm of wood from privatization...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-01-27-DSPG095.u128	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-01-27-DSPG095.u129	We're suffering from it in public health. And according to that selection of Manchester, which you like so much, that public health is in red and in need of resuscitation thanks to its cuts. Cuts, Mrs Mosquera, which obviously kill. But your plan goes well: Gilead, Mitsubishi, General Electric, Indra, Eulen... you won't lack a company to put yourself in, even if it is [...].
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-01-27-DSPG095.u130	Mr. Santalices, Popular Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-01-27-DSPG095.u131	Thank you, Madam President. To close the subject of hepatitis, I agree with the statements made by the President of the Joint Medical Organization: "The value of money cannot condition health and life." And he went on to say – and the sharing –: "The public health criteria must be primary in the face of abusive and greedy prices." Mrs. Prado, this is what I mean, point. Mrs. Acuña, I already knew that you today have a bad day, two skating and now a third. You are committed to the matter of the counselor's daughter: the Price Waterhouse, who works at it, I don't know that... we're going to close this subject because it's okay that you get involved in personal matters. I have a document... yes, it's okay, it's okay, it's not all right, it's not all right! "Doña María Noelia Bellot Corral, as the takeover of the company Centur, S.L.U., whose home is located in Pablo Ruiz Picasso, in Madrid, certify that Doña Amanda Bustente Mosquera offers her professional services in this society with a recognized seniority since 1 March 2011, being her employment link with an indefinite contract". [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I give it to the Madam President so that you can stop defaming. Nothing with Price Waterhouse. Madam President, let's get this over with. [[Applause]] That's good! And you're still skating. What I'm telling you is that it's not the same treatment that we treat when a situation like this happens to you. We in the emergency problem were apologized; you said in the two-party government other things: "Bloque and PSOE blame doctors for emergency saturation." And I'm going to read to him what the PSOE spokesman and the Block Spokesman said. Speaks or spokesperson of the PSOE: "Sorry that the problems arose in very specific hospitals and in very specific days. It could be that patients were very sick and should be hospitalized or that some professional decided to enter them. Well, we already know there are criteria, but they can be applied with a degree up or down.", PSOE spokesperson. The spokesman for the Block – I will not give names – says: "It is striking that 52% of emergency patients will enter the Canalejo on that day. You'll have to see if you don't respond to a Japanese strike this massive shipment of patients." Could not connect with command "%s": %s. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] He also spoke to the PP spokesman, who was me, but I don't think he should say what I said here. [[Murmurs.]] Proceed? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] So you know what this spokesman said? "Both arguments, the Block and the PSOE, are a gilipolez." [[Murmurs.]] If you ask me, I say what I said at that session, because these are two arguments that are good... so was the thing doctors the next day said: "They take offense that the PSOE and the BNG blame doctors for emergency saturation." [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]] And so it was the thing, so it was the thing that President Touriño had to act, and he had to apologize to the doctors saying that he didn't correct the advisor or the other spokespersons, but that he apologized because really the doctors had no blame at all. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] So this is how you were dealing with the emergency issue. We apologize, you attacked the professionals. They still did it yesterday. Yesterday, his spokesperson, who acted provisionally, spoke of "high doctors' fears"... yes, it's collected in the minutes. "High-tempered." [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Home!, high fear, we're not going to say what was said here in high fear by a spokesman, who "the doctors charged to give up." [[Murmurs.]] I'm sorry, the doctors say goodbye when they come in, when the patient is cured. You stop saying sandwiches about the good work doctors do, I know this hurts you, because history will always be that you're the ones who attack professionals. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And I don't want to be alarmed again with the red card, but I have it. [[Murmurs.]] I have the red card where you've generated an alarm, which you see... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-01-27-DSPG095.u132	It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-01-27-DSPG095.u133	... how complicated it is. "We'll charge for going to the ER, charge for going to the hospital." They disqualify themselves. Madam President, history is stubborn. Counsellor, I'd ask you to work on the primary care line, we'll change that door, that people don't use the emergency service doors massively, that they use it when they need it, but if you can give culture that there's another door, which is the continuing attention points and the primary one, let's go after them.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-01-27-DSPG095.u134	Thank you very much, Mr. Santalices.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-01-27-DSPG095.u135	The rest of us, let's forget. [[Murmurs.]] Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-01-27-DSPG095.u136	Quiet, please. Mr. Santalices, I'm sure you know that Members don't say sandwiches, they give opinions. I'm convinced you agree with me. [[Murmurs.]] Well, thank you very much. The Health Counsellor has the floor to close the debate.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-01-27-DSPG095.u137	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, public health does not defend itself with catastrophic speeches and maximizing its problems. It's true, and I won't deny it, that we've had a problem, which is the flu epidemic this winter, and several are the causes... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-01-27-DSPG095.u138	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-01-27-DSPG095.u139	...as I said to them: The flu epidemic has been delayed for three weeks. In fact, we were the first autonomous community to be on an epidemic level. And it affected a very high number of citizens in very little time. We attended 19,157 patients in the CAP more than last year, and 3,185 in hospital emergency services this year for the same period last year. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] CAPs are much more resolutive, all Galician CAPs, which do not derive, do not reach 10 % derivation. [[Murmurs.]] So they're working better for the CAP, and the citizens know it, and they're doing a lot more for the CAP than for the Emergency Service. Well, as the emergencies in hospital emergency services continue to decline progressively in every hospital and every hospital, they continue to increase in continued care points. The patients who came to the E.R. were more serious and needed more income. We entered 1,436 patients more this year than in the same period last year. And we got into a hospital and on a specific day 30% of the incoming emergencies. This, of course, is also due to the greatest aging of the population, of our population. And for some reason, the binding virus has affected more – as I say – older and more pluripathological people, and without vaccinating. 69% of the patients we entered for influenza were not vaccinated. So we have to keep working to improve vaccination rates. But I keep saying that health care was correct, since the triage was done at the same time as throughout the year 2014: ten with twenty-two minutes in front of ten with eleven minutes in the past season; that is, in ten minutes we chose the patients who attend the Emergency. And they've put on the resources needed to pay attention and improve attention. In the first week, 84 beds were cleared, in the second 151, in the third 269 and in the fourth 265. And we made the additional necessary contracts to care for these patients: in the first week 170, in the second week 244, in the third week 277 and in the fourth week 240. And the patients were derived from the concert: 63 in the first week, 82 in the second, 124 in the third and 79 in the fourth. And I tell you, ladies and gentlemen, there is no bed closed in the hospital facilities of the Galician Health Service. And with regard to hepatitis C, I want to stress once again that Galicia meets the protocols and criteria established by the independent expert group convened by the Ministry of Health through the Spanish Medicines Agency. We do not decide the criteria, are collected and are common to the whole national health system. And this guarantees fairness – as I say – throughout the national health system. The Central Hepatitis C Commission is rapidly developing its work and reviewing one to one of the treatments prescribed by the optionals, therapies are authorised every week. In this way we also guarantee equity in the Galician Health Service. Optionals are prescribing in accordance with the criteria set out by the Central Commission, since 97% of applications for this committee are being positively reported. Hepatitis C drugs, both authorised in 2012 and 2014, are hospital use, unique and exclusively hospital use, so they cannot be bought in pharmacy, they are not available to patients in pharmacy. So you can't buy when there's money and you can't buy when there's no money. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-01-27-DSPG095.u140	Mrs. Prado!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-01-27-DSPG095.u141	We'll keep working with the Ministry... They're not available in the pharmacies, gentlemen. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Well... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-01-27-DSPG095.u142	Ma'am!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-01-27-DSPG095.u143	...we will continue to work with the Ministry of Health and other autonomous communities, because we understand that this is not just a problem of our Autonomous Community, it is not a problem of Galicia, and we need to find joint solutions for the whole national health system. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to highlight the extraordinary work that professionals are doing both in the emergency services at the continuing primary care points as well as in the emergency services, as well as professionals in the Department of Health Service, the Internal Medicine Service and all those who treat patients with hepatitis C. We know that our system is not perfect; however, it is at the best level in the Spanish and European environment. It has the capacity to overcome the difficulties, it has the capacity to solve the challenges, we have to do it among all of us. And we're going to continue working with the professionals to get these improvements; we're going to analyze the report of the citizens' defenders, just to see all those improvements that can be introduced. And, of course, we apologize again for the disorders caused by some patients in the emergency services. This is not the attention we want to give them, undoubtedly, in time, or in form. But we will continue to work and, of course, they know that the direct teams of the Council, both at central and peripheral levels, continue to work for and for patients. If you want to help, you know they're counting on us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-01-27-DSPG095.u144	Thank you very much. The agenda is run out, the session is up. Good afternoon.
