ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u1	Take your seats, please. Let's start the session with point 7, which is that of questions for oral answer by the President of the Galician Union, which will be substanceed, as stated yesterday, in a cumulative way. Ask Mr. President of the Galician Council of Da Carmen Iglesias Sueiro, of the G.P. Mixto, on the complaint lodged by a woman in relation to the President of the Provincial Parliament of Ourense He asked Mr. President of the Galician Council of Mr. José Luis Méndez Romeu of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the behaviour of the president of the Provincial Parliament of Ourense Ask Mr. President of the Galician Board of Da Yolanda Díaz Pérez, G.P. of the Gaga de Left Alternative, on the level of demand and commitment of the Government of Galicia to equality policies
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u2	You have the floor to Mrs. Churches.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u3	Good morning, ladies. Good morning, President. I am very sorry, Mr Alberto, that the last question that I ask as a parliamentarian in this Chamber to the President of the Council of Galicia is related to such an unpleasant matter as is the case of violence of machista in Ourense, Mr Feijóo, whose alleged culprit is Mr Baltar, President of the Parliament, President of the PP in the province of Ourense and prominent militant of the People's Party. I also find it regrettable that your statements criminalizing the alleged victim, so I hope that at the moment you will give us your apologies to the women, to the ordinary citizenship and to the Greek citizenship in general. The issue we are dealing with does not involve anyone's private life or privacy, because the alleged aggressor acts as president of the Deputy when he promises employment in the institution, supported by public funds, to a woman in exchange for certain favors, in this case sexual. All the presumption of innocence for Mr Baltar as to the criminal consequences arising from the sentence issued by a judge in the event of going ahead with the criminal trial for the alleged crime. Nor is it a matter of judging the sexual conduct of the alleged aggressor, but neither is that of the victim. We demand the political reprobation and immediate resignation of a political representative who shows his bad practices of abuse of power in recruiting staff in the Deputy and sexual harassment to a citizen in messages and recordings of which he does not refuse to be the author. The law of July, which covers the prevention and treatment of gender-based violence in its Article 2 (e) states: "Sexual harassment, which includes those conduct consistent with the request for sexual favors for itself or for a third person, by taking advantage of the active subject of a situation of job superiority, teacher or analogous, with the express announcement or tacit to the woman of causing an evil related to the expectations that the victim has in the field of that relationship or under the promise of a reward or reward in the field of it." And in the debate of the nation's state of 14th 2015, it was approved...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u4	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u5	...resolution No. 4, published in the Official Bulletin of Parliament, driven by this honourable Member: "The Galician Parliament expresses its firm condemnation of the violence of the masquerade and commits itself to refusing and acting politically to any form of action or declaration...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u6	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u7	...of any political leader who justifies, defends, provokes, encourages or devalues women and violence exercised against her, and urges the Union and the parties to act in the same way." Recorded conversations and whatsthis messages offer no doubt...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u8	Thank you very much, Mrs. Churches.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u9	...and they are not denied by the author. That's why I ask you: Do you think the president of the board of Galicia publicly condemns the president of the House of Ourense for violence...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u10	Thank you, Mrs Iglesias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u11	...and impose your responsibility...?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u12	Thank you, Mrs Iglesias. You have the word Don José Luis Méndez Romeo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u13	Mr. President, according to published documents, a woman allegedly asks for a job in Ourense to a high-ranking position of the People's Party. She's invited to an interview, not in the job office, but in Suite 505. He said by text that he didn't carry a resume, that he didn't have an ID, that he had enough decision to make. On the other side of the door, Mr. Feijóo, there is no court, there is the heir to the chacique of Ourense, famous throughout Spain, Mr. Baltar, both representatives of you and your group in the province of Ourense, both responsible for the massive recruitment of hundreds of P.P. public officials or of first-degree relatives. I have a nominal relationship of all those people here. You, Mr Feijóo, for twenty-five years – you and your group – supported, when they did not applaud these practices; twenty-five years systematically violenceting personnel selection processes, manipulating courts, establishing a deterrent effect because Ourense's Provincial Deputy was the private cut, the Baltar and PP's personal estate, and public employment was the exclusive boot. Mr. President, justice has to be blind; sometimes it's dumb and deaf as well. Even so, lately disabled one of Mr. Baltar's lords; a shot, of course, the dead dying. Now the interested person denies explanations by saying that it is a private matter, and denies as a public office any explanation when there is evidence of a alleged crime, with the support of his party, Mr Feijóo, that he can boycott the indispensable role of democratic control in the Provincial Deputy. That's right, they don't hesitate to spread a writing in which there is nothing less than 17 insults and disqualifications from the opposition, which dares to ask for democratic explanations. Zero explanation, zero honesty, maximum immunity, total sapphireity and, above all, you recreate yourself in the worst male stereotype; you hold the victim responsible for promoting the crime, inciting the banned one. How old, Mr. Feijóo! The exonerated stalker and the excreted victim. You, who must enforce the law, support the stalker and mistreat the victim, support not to explain. Where are the political responsibilities that you now want to confuse with criminal responsibilities? Uaetic? Mr. Feijóo, what do you owe Mr. Baltar to trample on the law, despise women and cover up a alleged crime of gender violence?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u14	Thank you, Mr. Méndez Romeo. Question by Mrs Díaz Pérez of the Parliamentary Group of the Alternative Galga de Left. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u15	Thank you, President. Good morning, Mr. Feijó. I'll tell you what Baltar said in that recording: Don't fuck it, Mr. Feijó. Don't fuck it up and stop Mr Baltar immediately; if he can't of the MP, at least of the People's Party. Don't fuck up, Mr. Feijó. Don't fuck it up because what you're doing, what you're transmitting with this headline, Mr. Feijóo: "It made him cry that Baltar in the delinquent because the complainant didn't get a job for sex"... Mr. Feijóo, that's grazy-sit-sit-sit-sit-sit-sit-sit-sit-sit-sit-sit-sit-sit-sit-sit-sit. Do you know what you're telling the women in this country? Do you know what you're telling the girls in this country? What Mr. Baltar did is normal, that nothing happens, that it's normal for women to be a commodity object, that it's normal a society in which a woman has to offer her sexuality for someone to offer her a job. That's what you're telling society, Mr. Feijóo. What you're saying to society, to my daughter – I know that this certainly doesn't matter to you, because you have no daughters, Mr. Feijóo – is that this society is normal, Mr. Feijóo. [[Murmurs.]] Look, Mr. Feijóo, do you know what just happened in the Madrid trials of gender-based violence this weekend when thousands of women show up? They all showed up with paintings calling us "feminazis." Do you know what's really going on, Mr. Feijóo? That 35 women have been murdered in Galicia since 2008, Mr. Feijóo. Can you imagine, Mr. Feijóo, what would happen if 35 men were killed by women's hands? That this country would stop, that there would be a permanent strike. But what results from that message that nothing happened because it didn't get to the job is that it doesn't matter, that it's normal for women to be murdered, aggravated, raped, because you tell us you didn't get the job. Mr Feijóo, this parliamentary group has brought this complaint to the European Union. We regret the shame we're going to have to go through. I'm telling you to answer here we know Directive 78/2000. In article 10 he speaks clearly and knows that the burden of proof is altered, he knows that what you have done at most responsible for this country is wrong, because whoever has to protect you is the victim, that woman who is desperate enough to offer the maximum of her body, which is sexuality, to get......yes, sexuality, to get a job. [[Murmurs.]] I don't want it for my daughter. We do not work in this Parliament for this disastrous society – it would say a fatter word –. So, Mr. Feijóo, if you know reality, please don't fuck it up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u16	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u17	Mr Baltar immediately quits and, if he can't do it from the Deputy, stop making the ridicule and at least throw it away from the People's Party. Otherwise...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u18	Thank you very much, Mrs. Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u19	...the message is clear: women of the world, you are merchandise and we can do with you whatever we want. Nothing more and thank you very much. Go on, Mr. Feijó.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u20	The President of the Board has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u21	Lots of bitches, Madam President. Your Honor, Mrs Iglesias, tell you this is the last question. I suppose it will be this session. We'll keep counting on you at the next sessions... right? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Yeah, I don't know. The questions are closed at this session for the president, but I am convinced that we will continue to count on yours at the following sessions. Ladies and gentlemen, there's a clear coincidence today. The whole opposition considers that Galicia's main issue and Galicia's main problem is what they have just described.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u22	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u23	Ladies and gentlemen...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u24	Ma'am!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u25	Ladies and gentlemen, it is up to you to select the questions, of course, and it is up to you to ask all the questions you consider appropriate... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u26	Ma'am!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u27	...even if they let me answer, I can answer them. It gives me the feeling that what you're answering doesn't interest these opposition groups, but I'm going to follow because I believe in democracy, I believe in the rule of law and in the German Parliament. [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, I say that for the opposition it is clear, reflected – for all opposition, even opposition – that this is the fundamental theme of Galicia. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Ladies and gentlemen, as President of the Self-Government, to me the fundamental problem of Galicia today is, of course, the 220,000 people who have no work. Although we were able to achieve, that we were able to achieve... [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u28	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u29	...that had reduced unemployment in more than 60,000 people...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u30	I'm sorry, president. President, excuse me for a moment.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u31	...and yet, ladies and gentlemen, today we have less unemployment than in October 2010. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] For this government the main problem of Galicia, in addition to working...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u32	I'm sorry, president. Mrs. Acuña, you have a call to order and Mrs. Díaz too. [[Murmurs.]] Well, don't make me have to put another one on him. Please, you've spoken and you'll have a chance to speak again. So, now he's talking to the president. Please do it! President, you can continue.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u33	I say that Galicia's main problem for this government is the multiplicity of people who remain unemployed and who have completed their benefits, and the main problem of this government is, without a doubt, that these people can find their work and have their personal recovery in economic recovery. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u34	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u35	Ladies and gentlemen...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u36	I'm sorry, president.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u37	Ladies and gentlemen, you will understand that it's very difficult...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u38	I'm sorry, president.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u39	...dialogue with people who don't want to talk.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u40	If they keep screaming, you can't hear it. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Quiet, please! I think there's six minutes and fifty seconds left so the president can keep talking. Please do it! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Murmurs.]] President, continue.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u41	Furthermore, as President of the Self-Government, which are the main concerns of this president... and also as ordinary representative of the State in Galicia, our main concern, no doubt, is what is happening with the state of autonomy......and how it affects Galicia at the moment. [[Interruptions.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] That's the Government's main concern. [[Interruptions.]] I'm sorry, ladies and gentlemen, that the Government can't even speak in the House, but it's a very surprising way of understanding democracy. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Ladies and gentlemen, of course, in relation to the questions that you pose, what I am most concerned about is to act with prudence and firmness, both of them; prudently, Your Honor, because today we are talking about a question, firstly, which is a written submission to the Prosecutor's Office; a letter, i.e., a complaint, there is no judicial pronouncement or judicial proceeding. We are talking, Your Honor, of a letter which on the part of the complaint is absolutely denied; and consequently, Your Honor, we are talking about a version of the denunciation and a denial of the complaint. We're talking, ladies... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u42	Mrs. Gallego, you have a call to order.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u43	We're talking, ladies and gentlemen, I think this House deserves a respect, and I think that this question also deserves a respect, and that's why we have to respect the opposition's questions and I think the Government's answers. [[Murmurs.]] [[Interruptions.]] [[Interruptions.]] We're talking, Your Honor, that any pronouncement at this procedural moment on this issue is a hasty pronouncement. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Interruptions.]] He knows exactly as I do, and therefore we would run a high risk of being unfair if we pronounce ourselves right now. [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Ladies and gentlemen, with due caution, I am not going to speak at this moment about this complaint because we are talking about a complaint in which there is no judicial pronouncement......there is no statement by the prosecution... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u44	But be quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u45	...and there's just a contradictory version between the parts... [[Interruptions.]] Your Honor, I refer to what I said, and I repeat it today: I will read literally. We're talking about a complaint, not a sentence, not even an indictment decision. There's no legal proceedings or any legal ruling; the prudent is to see how this complaint evolves and what the Prosecutor's decision is. And once we have information, form opinions and then transfer that opinion. "I'm following, with the interest you require, this kind of complaint," that's exactly what I said, and that's what I repeat to the House. Ladies and gentlemen, don't ask me to judge, to condemn and to condemn. And that's why I don't think, Mr. Méndez Romeo... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u46	Mrs. Gallego, you have a call to order; I think it's the second, and you know what the third means.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u47	...that you're accusing,...you're judging, you're pronouncing and condemning. [[Interruptions.]] And that's exactly what protects the parliamentary system, the democratic system and the rule of law. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] You've already passed the verdict, you've already pointed out a guilty person without even listening to that person and without even knowing if there's any kind of justice... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u48	Mrs. Quintas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u49	...indicating that it produces the beginning of a file...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u50	Mrs. Quintas!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u51	Ladies and gentlemen, I know you have a lot of measuring rods, I know you don't care, it depends on the person you're judging. I know you have in your party people who are not only reported but are investigated, who are charged, who have judgments. I know, Your Honor, that you have in your ranks mayors denounced by fellow government officials for this kind of crime. I know, Your Honor, that you have two yards to measure, but this government, to whom it affects... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u52	Mrs. Gallego...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u53	...have a measuring stick. Don't worry, Your Honor, that didn't shake me or shake my hand to decide things......when we consider that things deserve a decision. [[Interruptions.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Thank you very much, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u54	Thank you, President. Replica from Mrs. Iglesias Sueiro.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u55	Thank you, President. President of the Government of Galicia, answer your questions, don't break them. What a disappointment, President! Pacotilla Democrats, unscrupulous machists and consciences change their speech for democracy, for the dignity of the political class and also for the dignity of their party, the People's Party, for the democratic regeneration and the ethical code applied to the exercise of politics. Mr. Feijóo, responsibilities for you. How do you keep yourself in the People's Party and in charge of the President of the House of Ourenses an angry person, a miserable person, who no one tries to judge? We are not judges, we are citizens and we demand political representatives to assume their political responsibilities, which is what we are demanding of women and also of all citizenship. You've taken up your nine minutes stamping the answer, speaking of this and the other, of Catalonia, of unemployment... ; answer, Mr. President. I ask you, and I repeat to you, political responsibility! Criminal responsibilities will already be charged with justice; in this Parliament of Galicia this legislative body is what it elaborates and complies with the laws. And if you don't mind, I will repeat – if I have time – the law, the article of the law and the resolution adopted in plenary of the debate of the state of the nation last year in this Parliament of Galicia. Mr. Feijóo, don't be deaf!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u56	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u57	Answer me, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u58	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u59	It is essential for democratic cleansing.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u60	Thank you very much, Mrs. Churches.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u61	You're welcome!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u62	Mr. Méndez Romeo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u63	Mr. President, a castizo would say today that you've been "sowed." Six years of refusing to talk about unemployment and today you have to talk about unemployment because it bothers you with the problem of half the Greeks, which are women! [[Applause]] Mr. Feijóo, we are talking – if you have not yet found out – about alleged facts that constitute gender-based violence, as defined in the Greek law: sexual harassment in exchange for promises of favors. You voted that law and you don't want to make it happen. We are talking about your husband, supported by you, even supported by Members and Members in this House, supported for not giving explanations, supported for insulting those who ask for transparency, supported for contempt of any ethical principle, supported for sexual harassment, supported for immunity, supported, Mr President – see that it bothers me to say this – because you do not have minimally sustainable ethical principles. It's just that there's a lot going on, Mr. Feijóo; it's that there's already a lot of dangerous friends going on, that there's a lot of winners going on, that there's a lot going on hiding information. What else brings transparency rules here when then you don't support real accountability? Or don't you know what your response has just been to the city of Ourense? Suite 505, does it seem to you that this is the place to offer employment? Is that what I meant today by this appeal to the unemployment situation? A woman had to surrender, as in feudal times, to soon be ridiculed and then above all be denounced precisely by the president of the board publicly. Mr. Feijóo, how many more women are going to have to go through these caudina horcas? Do you know that in Galicia there are 5,000 complaints every year about gender-based violence? Do you know that there are 1,200 women in Greece with protection orders? You know that the public authorities...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u64	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u65	Do they have to lead the fight against discrimination and gender-based violence? And you, instead of liberal, were tacitly supporting. It's entrepreneurial, Mr. President!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u66	Well, since Mrs. Díaz is not present, you have the floor, president.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u67	Ladies and gentlemen, you seem to know what I said even though you've gone away... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] In any case, Your Honor, I repeat the statement in the first part, I suppose I won't need to repeat it again. For you the main problem of Galicia today is this, for me, the main problem of Galicia today is what I have just reported......both as Government, as President of the Government, as ordinary representative of the state in Galicia. [[Murmurs.]] I know, Your Honor, that you don't have that problem because you support non-compliance with the laws, including the Constitution. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Mr. Méndez Romeo – with all due respect – you appeal to ethical principles. I'm not going to tell you that you have less ethical principles than me, what I'm telling you is that you stay with yours that I'm staying with mine. In this and in any order from a political point of view and from a personal point of view. O you, Your Honor! [[Applause]] O you with those kinds of manifestations that you make! [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Look, Your Honor, you always have a double measuring stick; it's curious that measuring stick! The other day, his secretary-general was asked about the unrest and the political spook that is suffering from the Lugo Deputy. He, eight years old in the Deputation of Lugo and Secretary General – for now – of the Socialist Party in Galicia, said that he had to answer the President of the Deputy of Lugo, and now it turns out, Your Honor, that on the issues affecting the President of the Ourense Parliament is based on the control session in this Parliament and has to answer the President of the Government of Galicia. [[Murmurs.]] I know, Your Honor, that you have many yards to measure, as much as a mayor in Pontevedra province was denounced by a colleague – concelebrator – of the Socialist Group for sexual abuse...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u68	Mr. Val, you have no word.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u69	Your Honor, what have you done with him? Suspended by militancy. But the question is: Who is lying?, the companion of the Socialist Party, conceler of him, or him? And what will you do later? Because what they're suggesting now is that we throw him out of the party. Are you going to throw out of the party, whatever happens, there's a sentence in one way or another, that mayor, Your Honor? Yeah? Look, Mr. Méndez Romeo, with all due respect, I think that someone who should put a little order in the opposition should not pose these different measuring rods because that's all he does is denigrate political activity. Look, Your Honor, there are no defendants of different classes; the defendants of the Socialist Party have every right in the world to continue in their positions. We're not talking about a person here, not even a defendant, but a person indicted. Do you think it's right that we have to pronounce ourselves definitively before we know what the prosecutor's opinion is at least? Does it seem normal to you that in a rule of law, in the face of a complaint, the denouncing can say nothing, not even have the right to be heard and a government and a majority group in Galicia have no even the right to know how that complaint will result, what is the prosecutor's pronouncement and what is the pronouncement, if this is the case, of the judge? Mr. Méndez Romeo, I quote: "As far as it does not mean a conviction, nor even a trial, it should not be an obstacle," textual words of his secretary-general before his four charges. Reiterato, says his secretary-general, in relation to being a candidate for the presidency of the Chair of the United States, "to the extent that it means no condemnation, not even a trial, it shouldn't be an obstacle." Four counts! And now, before there's an accusation, do you think I have to pronounce it? I told you, Your Honor, that I will act with prudence and firmness. I think we know each other, you know how I act on these matters and any other, you know the decisions we have made, you know the decisions we have made by parliamentarians of this group and by senior officials of the Galician Union. You know, we always act like this. So, Your Honor, we're not going to let you down in any case, because it's not our way of understanding politics, your own, that of your parliamentary group, and that's why I think you have to respect women, and today you've been using women. [[Applause]] And I find it regrettable, ladies and gentlemen, that you are using any kind of consideration. Mr. Méndez Romeo, do not doubt that I shall act with prudence that demands the case and with the firmness that exaggerates the case in your case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u70	We continue with the development of the agenda, and as noted, with the change of the non-law proposal. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da María do Carme Adán Villamarín and Da María Montserrat Prado Cores, on the presentation by the Government of Galicia of a plan of sanitary uses for the tower of the old hospital of Vigo, as well as a proposal, in collaboration with the Town Hall, for the socio-economic revitalization of its surroundings
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u71	This motion for a non-legislative amendment was tabled by the Joint Parliamentary Group, the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia and the Parliamentary Group of the Alternative Glaga de Left.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u72	To formulate the non-law proposal, Mrs. Adán Villamarín has the floor. Please be quiet. Please speak to Mrs. Adán Villamarín. Quiet, please. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u73	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Until just a few minutes ago, I thought Baltar had to resign, now I think the president of the board has to do the same. [[Applause]] And I'm already going to the question, because I'm still surprised that the Group of the People's Party and the women of the People's Party didn't stand up today, I'm still surprised, but with regard to the people who accompany us, to debate this initiative, we're going to go to the issue. Thank you, President. "When a building comes into disuse, it becomes a phantom presence." With these words the architect Salvador Fraga realized what could happen with the old tower of Vigo hospital, called and known by all and by all as Pirulí. And we could think it was a more improvisation of the People's Party, which makes a hospital – the Alvaro Cunqueiro, of which I am not going to talk about today even though we would have to talk a lot, 'but a lot, of that hospital, and it's already talked a lot about it, and they weren't even going through their heads that after the new hospital was inaugurated, the old hospital would continue to exist, it would be in a central area of Vigo and it would have been thought of a use. But no, although the People's Party works at the stroke of improvisation and spasms many times, the fact is that by reviewing the Journal of Sessions, in February 2010 the advisor said at that time: "Once the new hospital was put into operation, in the field of specialized care, the high resolution centre would be located in the building of the current General Hospital." I repeat if they are not careful and attentive: "There will be a high-resolution centre in the building of the current General Hospital, which will be complemented by diagnostic structures to support primary care in the Morrazo high-resolution center. It is provided that health care is not used as part of the General Hospital, Rebullón Hospital and the Cies Hospital, which will be intended for other uses in the socio-health, administrative or complementary field." In the same appearance the advisor once again stated: "The new care area of Vigo will respond to a model that will dominate management effectiveness and will respond to health needs and demand that exist in the health area, and on the horizon 2014 the situation will be the new hospital as a general in maternal-child and as a single emergency port. In it will continue to collaborate, as I said, the Mexoeiro Hospital, as a reference to oncologic, surgical and minimal care, Nicolás Peña, psychiatric and palliative care, Povervisa, as a general hospital – always Povervisa – while the tower of General Hospital, Rebullón and General Hospital Cies will be dedicated to complementary aspects." In other words, in 2010 it was clear that there was a high resolution centre, socio-sanitary services and complementary services. Well, it's 2015, November 2015, and you don't know. Here we are now accompanied by a part of the commission created to be affected by the old hospital, which covers both neighbors and neighbors, as well as traders, as the people of Vigo city, concerned about what the future of this facility will be. We can see these days in the press itself, in the Lighthouse of Vigo, headlines as "The Piruli in the key chapter of his story." "100 possible lives for the Piruli." A debate in the city that already had to be resolved, that had to be running the high-resolution center and that there had to be a plan of socio-sanitary use. That's why today we are bringing an initiative that only picks up the feelings of the affected, and also a proposal that the Government should present a plan for socio-sanitary use. We know, indeed, that the building is the property of the General Social Security Treasury, which has been transferred for health use. We also know your situation in the PXOM, because it's a building over 60 years old and emblematic. We consider it necessary – necessary – for this building to be maintained. Because look, they remember a building we've also talked about on many occasions in this House, like the Toén Psychiatrics. These are some of the photos of your situation today. When a building actually falls into disuse, it's absolutely phantom, it's destroyed inside, it's broken all the doors, it's all full of paintings, it's exactly like this: like a spectrum. And in Vigo we know a lot about this, because the panifier is in this situation, it's a building in the center of Vigo absolutely phantom. The same thing as the asylum in the Barrio do Cura, absolutely phantom, and we're going to have another phantom building in the center of Vigo if you don't take care of it, because these photos that I teach are from the decay in almost three years, i.e., just over two years and the building completely delineated. This is full of paintings, a completely destroyed building. There is no possibility that if there are no uses, the building will be kept. The question is, are the Health Council and the Government waiting for the deterioration and building to collapse? Do you think what it means for the local traders, who already calculate a loss of employment of between 200 and 300 workers already at work? We're talking about small trade, coffee shops, kiosks, floristries, all over the world that existed around the old hospital, and at the moment they don't have any business plans on the table. By the way, I want to remind you that it's the lowest in all budgets, the one that's been down since 2009 and that at the moment it's down again in its games. That's why the proposal is very clear: a plan of use, and on the initiative we put health care, willing to trade socio-sanitary, into the tower of the old hospital, for everything that was the old hospital. There are a lot of socio-health needs in the city, and throughout the health area, and we also include the development of a business recovery plan, an economic recovery plan in collaboration with the Vigo Council, which has certainly already made an assessment of the impact on the loss of employment that entails the displacement of the old hospital. I think it's sad that they're still debating what the use of the hospital is going to be, when in 2010 from this Chamber, from this very rostrum, the counselor himself said it was necessary to give him socio-sanitary use. Five years later, in 2015, there are debates in the city to see if a library, if administrative services. Isn't that a health facility that worked, it won't be easier – and so they say it from associations like SOS Public Health – to social health services, since the facilities are ready for those services? We hope to achieve unanimity in this non-law proposal, because there are many people pending what will happen – citizenship – in order to make use of this emblematic building. The traders and neighbors of the area concerned about this situation. And, above all, how can it work since improvisation? How can a government today say nothing, nothing about the old hospital, and also other sanitary facilities?, how do they appear collected in some of the amendments. Nor do you know what the uses are going to be, but what's really at heart, I mean, is either a mismanagement or improvisation, or a look across the People's Party when you talk about Vigo. As I said, we expect us to reach a unanimous position, because there are many people – who today we know have made an effort to move from Vigo – pending that the old tower has a socio-sanitary use. If it closes, if a year passes, if two years go by, we'll be in front of another phantom building, and the guilt goes clearly to the Health Council, which from the beginning told us of a high-resolution center, and today we haven't even listened to what we had to say about this building and its future uses. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u74	Thank you very much, Mrs. Adam. Intervention of parliamentary groups. The Joint Parliamentary Group has the floor to Mrs Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u75	Thank you, President. I must begin by lamenting and expressing my shame for what has just happened in this House, with a president of a community that justifies sexual harassment for women, and therefore justifies gender violence.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u76	Mrs. Martínez. Mrs. Martínez
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u77	He doesn't deserve to be president, and the women of Greece have to know that their lives are not safe in the hands of Mr. Núñez Feijóo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u78	Mrs. Martínez, I don't have to remind you that the debates take place at every point, and that you had a representative of your group in your questions to the president. Please focus on the matter now.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u79	But my outrage as a woman has nothing to do with this group's spokesperson. The reports of the Galego Health Service, according to the manager of the health area of Vigo, Félix Ruibal, recommend the demolition of the General Hospital tower, I suppose it will be to speculate with them, since in the PXOM de Vigo the whole square of horses goes with towers of high-standard dwellings, and the best thing the People's Party wants is to build a tower of high-standard dwellings, but the Vigo Town Council says it must be preserved, and the population of Vigo wants it to be preserved. Your owner is General Social Security Treasury and has no plan for the tower. The launch of Álvaro Cunqueiro has emptied more than 83,000 square metres of public heritage in Vigo, distributed into 5 buildings: the General Hospital, the Cies Policlinic, the Coia and The Double Center and the Rebulón Psychiatric, which face an uncertain future waiting for the Administration to assign them new uses. The General opened in 1955 with the Frankish name of Admiral Vierna Residence. The General is an emblematic building, loaded with history and must not end up abandoned. The Cies, designed by architect Xose Bar Boo, and opened in 1967, is also an emblematic building in the city. The central location of the General and the Cies are great, however, for health use. Social use must be given to the building, never speculative. In Vigo's citizenship the debate is open, use it as a social health center, use it as a high resolution center, outpatient surgery... Other proposals value that installations, like Coia and La Doubleda centers, hardly need reforms to become homes for homeless people. Some people suggest that Coia's specialty center be destined for daycare facilities and General's tower at daytime. It is also proposed to resume the old idea of assigning Rebullon as a rehabilitation center for large spinal cord injuries. But the important thing is to decide as soon as possible the future public use of these public buildings to prevent its ruin and deterioration. The general district store collective calculates in 600 the jobs they generated and the 200 locations around the General Hospital, which are being forced to close after the transfer of the hospital tower's activity to the new Álvaro Cunqueiro Hospital. I will therefore vote in favour of this non-legislative proposal to which I tabled an amendment, since I consider it of the utmost importance in addition to the tower to decide what will be the fate of the other public buildings that have been left out of activity as a result of the inauguration of the Cunqueiro Álvaro. And I remember that Vigo's health area is deficient in many health and socio-sanitary services, we don't have any long-stay centers, there's no center in Galicia for the recovery of medullary injuries, having to go to Toledo. So there are very serious deficiencies in this community that can be covered today by these public, health-care buildings, equipped and structured for health care, which would need no reforms and which would respond to the city's most serious health and social problems with regard to health. So I am presenting an amendment to also present a plan of public use for the Cyes Polyclinic, Coia and Doublety Specialties Centers and Rebullon Psychiatric. I hope this amendment is accepted. Otherwise, I shall vote equally in favour of the non-law proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u80	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. Parliamentary Group of the Left Galician Alternative. Mrs. Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u81	Thank you, President. And it's just a shame if I'm called into question and order, I also have to say that I regret the disgusting spectacle that Mr. Feijó gave here today. I feel hurt not as a Member, as a woman. [[Applause]] And we have repeated on countless occasions the prejudices already faced by the health management of the People's Party, and in particular what has to do with Vigo's health and the new PFI hospital. We denounce multiple irregularities around a contract that should be called public-private collaboration and that speaks of a public work concession. We comment on non-compliance in financial matters, in delivery times and in the resulting qualities; and another of the serious non-compliances, the size and reduction of spaces: a hospital without laboratory, without sterilization. And by the way, it was thanks to the denunciation of political groups, social organizations, trade unions and citizenship that have just rectified precisely the process, that cycle of sterilization. But we have warned from here that, of course, that is not acceptable without the hospital being provided with a sterilization service. Having opened the hospital in these conditions is reckless and irresponsible and also has caused the cancellation of many surgical interventions or the modification of techniques in a rather serious way, as we know. Bed cutting is not confined only to the new Vigo hospital, from 1,239 planned to 845, but also affects the rest of the centers and the closure of many centres, such as the General Hospital. The Mexeiro loses 71 beds in that reorganization; Nicolás Peña loses 52 beds; the consultations from the center of Calvary are withdrawn; it also closes Coia, and also closes the General Hospital. Everything to keep doing business with the private. These days we are seeing the aggressive and massive publicity of Povervisa, which is worth that policy of the People's Party to ask people to return to their private center again. For this they made the Health Insurance Act and for that they cut the beds in Vigo's public health. And the plan for the General Hospital had, as Mrs. Adam said, a plan of intended uses, precisely. They removed from the functional plan that high resolution center that was designed to be implanted in the General Hospital, opened the new center closing the General without knowing the fate of it. That is the absence of health planning policy by the People's Party Government, total absence of planning. Absence of planning that does not lead only to the emptiness of the General Hospital, indeed – as Mrs. Adam said – we have a lot of public buildings and also health and social welfare samples that have ended up totally empty in our country. Not only Toén, but, for example, the General Hospital of Lugo, or, for example, the Provincial Hospital of Pontevedra. The truth is that it is a terrible management that public buildings – with the amount of social, health and all kinds of needs – are falling due to lack of capacity in this case of governments. We tabled an amendment asking that those services that were planned, such as primary care, primary care emergencies, which in theory would be moved from those on Bolivia Street, that family orientation center that now closes in Coia, those rehabilitation services, the high resolution center – which I have already named – and the outpatient surgery. As proposed by the Health Platform...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u82	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u83	...with the merchants themselves at some meeting. This depends not only on public health, on viability, not on private health, but on the life of many families who have made their lives and businesses around this center. We will vote in favour, even if the amendment is not accepted. We understand that these uses could be realized. And this afternoon there's a meeting of these and these merchants again. And we believe that it is mandatory for this government and public administration, regardless of ownership, to use public buildings; unless the interest is precisely that it deteriorates and the subsequent speculation with the lands where the hospital itself is. Something the People's Party obviously knows a lot. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u84	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. Socialist Group. Mr. Losada Álvarez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u85	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen. The moral size of the rulers marks not how they treat the powerful, but how they treat the weak and the vulnerable. And today, I try – and not always with me, probably – to be worthy of being here every day, I am ashamed to share this hemicycle with the President of the Council of Galicia. I feel radically ashamed to share this Chamber. [[Applause]] And I am very sorry that the Members of the People's Party had not taken advantage of reading the press when they were listening to Mr Feijóo's speech. [[Applause]] It was probably a way of concealing his shame. I want to greet the representatives of the citizens of the area of the old Vigo hospital that are here. The truth is that it is a metaphor for this transfer of improvisation with which the construction of the new hospital took place, and, of course, the transfer, as the spokesman for the Nationalist Block Galego said, was the chronicle of an announced socio-economic desertification, moving all users, that every day thousands of people were in that area. And indeed, we saw this hasty move, which corresponded strictly to the interests of the concessionary company, because it had enormous costs in terms of insecurity for users, in terms of quality of benefits. I think it's already said here, but I want to repeat it. I want to repeat – because I also asked for the audio – how that nurse counted in the Vigo Town Hall as in an operation – I'm not a doctor – they couldn't use – I don't know exactly, but in a brain operation – the usual machine to cut the bone and literally had it removed, so there's no reconstruction possible, so to speak. Finally, these minor unimportant details – which is what the People's Party says – are problems of temporary imbalances that are taking place in a complex transfer, because they have a lot of derived costs in many areas. And here we're undoubtedly talking about one of them, we're talking about an area where there's an important economic fabric that is undoubtedly affected by this transfer. The same happened in the Lugo hospital – I was told a moment ago by my companion Concepción Burgo – that, indeed, there was already a previous example of dismantling and utter abandonment. Well, they stumble on the same stone. The coordination of administrations, of course, shines by their absence and is not responding at all to the fact that since the Public Health Defence Platform and the board itself of staff and groups of traders, both a primary care centre and the hospital emergency service, a family centre, the high resolution centers, the Vigo one indeed. We must also remember the constant publicity of the Ten and the Morrazo, totally forgotten all of them. They write to us, advertisers, powerpoints, press rounds, and then in Parliament they vote against opposition initiatives. And the worst thing about all this is that they don't build them. And, indeed, it is essential to provide solutions and support this commercial and economic fabric in the area of Vigo General Hospital. I want to say that the efforts of the Galician Council in terms of trade support are very scarce. I mean, the reduction of the budget in function 751, of trade support, if you've been down by 63% since Mr Feijóo's rule. I have to say that even above the budget execution of that reduced budget has, let's say, not spent, not executed, 35 million euros. We have to say that the General Directorate of Commerce is absolutely missing. And we have tabled an amendment, we understand that there are actions from the Vigo Town Hall that are taking place. You tell me the merchants had a meeting with the concierge responsible for trade, which is a commitment to improve green areas, in the area of cleaning, which is urban development. And you tell me that commercial dynamization initiatives have to be presented by the usual procedure in the Vigo Town Hall, which is by the traders themselves or by trader associations. The Vigo Council has explicitly expressed this support and this is the fundamental reason why we present an amendment in which we want to differentiate the responsibilities of everyone.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u86	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u87	We understand that the Council of Galicia is not complying at all with trade policy in the whole of the Autonomous Community, nor in this case. And we understand that, of course, the Vigo Town Hall has the doors open to this collaboration. And by the way, we also mean a rather solemn thing, that the humanizations made in the Vigo Town Hall are a very clear support for commercial activity. It's very difficult to criticize humanization and say that we support the commercial fabric...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u88	Thank you very much, Mr. Losada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u89	...because we find ourselves, then, in an empty space which, of course, I don't understand. I'm going to ask for a point vote, and in case the Socialist Group is not accepted, it will abstain. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u90	Thank you very much. People's Group. Mr. Santalices.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u91	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning to all of you. I also greet those who are our guests in Vigo's health area. On the proposal presented today by the Galego Nationalist Block, through Mrs. Carmen Adam, I understand that it is a reasonable proposal, but I am obliged to make some considerations on this proposal. First, I think it's good that we address this matter not from the perspective of opening another confrontational front. After the transfer of the Álvaro Cunqueiro Hospital is over, we're going to let the Cunqueiro Alvaro work the way it should work. But let's not now turn this matter into another front of confrontation as someone wants, because in that sense I think we're going to go wrong, we're going to propose it from the perspective of being able to give a solution. Of course, you present in your proposal that we should talk about the tower. I think we should talk not only about the tower, we should talk about many more things; and I do it with knowledge of cause, which, as you know, I was manager of that hospital. There are many more buildings, they have already been commented here: the General, the Cíes, the Coia and the Doubleda. There's also Rebulón and Nicolás Peña. They are not the property of the Treasury, they are the property of Sergas, since there was a transfer process. One was transferred from the Vigo Town Hall and another was transferred from the Provincial Deputy. So, in the face of this process, the first thing we have to do right now, what we need to do, is a regression to the Treasurer of Social Security. The medical end that was being used in the tower must be traced back to the Social Security Treasury, because there is no health performance there at the moment. There is health action in the expansion that has been done, that, even though it is done in the soil of the Social Security Treasury, is done by today's Galician Health Service. So you can do sanitary purposes there. But made that regression that I mentioned earlier to the Social Security Treasury, there are three options that the treasury can fight: one is engineering, another can be renting and another can be sold in use. In the tower, as I say, many works were done as well. The master plan that was made when I was manager remodeled the 19 floors of the General Hospital, and expanded, as I said before, with these new buildings. Currently, four plants are used in the tower, namely 0, -1, -2, -3 and 4th, and there is a continuous, unified point of attention, which is that of Bolivia Street and Coia Street, in vitro fertilization, the family orientation center, rehabilitation and the Bolivia Street health center. Conventional radiology, the Doubleda health center and the mental health unit are also expected to be used. This is possibly during 2016. He commented here, and it's true, that there's been a lot of talk about what fate we can give the Piruli, which is how you know in Vigo. And there were many proposals, many proposals. I agree with some and some I disagree with. But there's one thing we have to do before we start suggesting to the treasury some proposals, and that's what the buildings are in. Because I've heard of everything. I heard the General Hospital, the tower, the Piruli, is sick, has aluminumosis. At the time I didn't have it, what I had was Cíi. So I don't know. The first thing I'd like to know is what the state these buildings are in, and once we know what the state is, we can come up with solutions. You're talking about a senior residence. I don't particularly share it. It's very vertical to locate a third-year-old residence. I don't think it's appropriate. It could be appropriate, and it could be a proposal, a consortium, an agreement where the three administrations, the State Administration, the Self-Government and the Town Hall, can jointly propose a solution. We shall not discard this possibility. And also...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u92	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u93	...and it's over, Madam President – we must look at another issue that no one is talking about, but that you, and I and the Vigo lords know. The Social Security Treasury has planned to build a new building in Vigo to locate its dependencies. No, no. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] You've been thinking about building...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u94	Finish it, Mr. Santalices.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u95	...where the metallurgical was. You've been thinking about building it. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] No, no, no! So I think this is a way where you can evaluate how all this is. I know that the councillor has already sent a letter to the affected, to the area of the merchants sent them letters. So...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u96	Thank you very much, Mr. Santalices.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u97	...it's a matter that we must reflect together, but perhaps from the three administrations. Nothing else, Madam President. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u98	Group author of the non-law proposal. Mrs. Adam Villamarín.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u99	Yes, thank you, President. We can also reflect from Parliament, or can Parliament only hear what we hear this morning, and we will also reflect from here, Mr Santalices. The incredible thing is, I don't know if it's improvisation anymore. It'll be bad faith rather than improvisation, because after five years, what you're thinking about now is that we'll start thinking about what will be done with a building that we've also known was designed for another General Social Security Treasury building... of course, this just goes a long way, which deteriorates the building and ends up, as you have more or less insinuated, tearing down this tower. That's the situation we seem to be talking to, and it's very good that there are people here who hear it in the first person, who listen to the People's Party who don't want to keep this building and keep it with socio-sanitary use. Because I'm not who, and I don't think that we are the Members and the Members who have to decide whether it's better to be a senior resident, whether it's a kind of health care. It will be the Government; the Government must put forward a plan of socio-sanitary uses with all the infrastructure it has to be able to design this plan of socio-sanitary use. Of course, I personally don't feel that our responsibility is to say what the use has to be, but if I demand that use, that socio-sanitary use. And it's sad enough that we found out that it was an improvisation for the interests, as Mr. Losada said, of the concessionary company, the transfer of the Cunqueiro Álvaro, and that in this transfer they didn't care, nor had they taken a minute to do with the old hospital, not a minute! And we just saw him. And with regard to the Directorate-General of Commerce, we haven't heard a word. What about the traders in the area? What do you tell them? There's no meeting with them, there's no explanation, there's no proposal, there's no alternative plan, it's closed and it's over. I mean, what are you going to do? We very much appreciate the amendments of the other groups that really want to make the problem manifest with all the needs of the health area, but this was an initiative that was agreed with the traders. We'd like you to receive your support too, we understand that you don't get it from all the groups, but we're going to maintain this initiative, we're going to vote on it as a whole and demand that the Government and the People's Party put on the pillars. Don't come here and tell us that we're going to think about the old Piruli. The city is... the people, not the city, that the city isn't the one that ponders, people are really worried about this building. Because we see that within a year we'll be here teaching pictures of their deterioration and within two he'll be planning to bring it down, and within five we'll just have the photos of what was Vigo's old hospital. And why? Because the People's Party was not interested in setting up the high-resolution center, and it was not interested in keeping a socio-sanitary area in the center, in the center itself, of the city.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u100	Thank you very much, Mrs. Adam.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u101	Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u102	Next proposal. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. People of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr. Agustín Baamonde Díaz and seven other Members, on the opening of a public library of the State in the city of Vigo
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u103	This non-law proposal has been amended by the Joint Group and the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block of Wales.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u104	Mr. Dorado Soto has the floor to formulate his proposal not of law.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u105	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, gentlemen. The political parties that we are represented here, in the four parliamentary groups, all have government responsibilities in various administrations that apply to the Greeks, all of them. And we all know the importance of working together, working together for infrastructure, improving public services and ultimately improving the quality of life of the Greeks. Well, what we are bringing to this House today, to this plenary, is precisely an initiative that needs the coordination, collaboration and cooperation of the public administrations in Galicia, some of them governed by different political forces. I think it's important we're up to your eyes. What we bring to this plenary is precisely the installation of a new state library in Galicia, specifically in the city of Vigo, which as everyone knows is the most populous city in Galicia. We believe that Vigo needs a public library of the State, just as all the capitals of the province of Spain and cities are also of important importance, such as Santiago de Compostela or other cities of Spain. We believe it's important because Vigo today, without going further, has 31,000 users and library users in the city. I live with a central library of dimensions that don't fit the needs of the city of Olivia, and don't adapt to the needs of the beams. And, therefore, as this is a historic claim by the citizens of the vigues, and also by the citizens of their area, I think it is interesting that today in this plenary, in this House, we can all push together that, after many years of claim, Vigo can count on in the coming years with a highly claimed and highly required facility. And we were talking about this need, among other things, because by 1996 it was considered that the Vigo library had to be a nodal library, a very important library. So this administrative denomination means two things: First of all, which points out that Vigo has, because of its extent, a special need with regard to libraries from which they may have other areas or other villages of Spain. And second, that the library that we have today at our disposal as a central library in Vigo is not a library that meets the circumstances at the infrastructure level of what Vigo needs. I used to say, I started by speaking about the need for cooperation and coordination between different public administrations. Well, I was saying that because what we are asking for here today is nothing other than the Vigo Town Hall and the Galician Board to begin negotiating the installation and request of that library. And why the Vigo Council and the Galician Union? For it's very easy, the Vigo Town Hall has to provide the State with land, so that the State can build and invest in the installation of this building. Therefore, the Vigo Town Hall has to make the State's land available, the State has to build this building and the Galician Union, as it belongs to it in the field of competence, it has to take care of the management of that library. So it's a three-mandated game, three-mandated game, and I think it's interesting that today's parliamentary term that can leave this House is a uniform mandate and a clear mandate for the benefit of the Vigees' interests. The Councillor for Education and Culture, as you know, has spent time investing in Vigo libraries. Specifically, the model that the central public library of Vigo has to manage, which, as I said before, is not a library that meets the needs of the beams, that public library already counts on the part of the Galician board with monthly investments in the improvement of collections, with personal investments by the Autonomic Administration, with investments in readout activities, etc. In total, in the last year, EUR 689,000 was invested in improving this infrastructure. Still, as you know, we're talking about patches, patches, because generally the space with which this library counts is not a suitable space for a larger library that should be the central library of Vigo. Just as the board makes a budgetary effort, the Vigo Town Hall also does, which is important, in the maintenance of the building, and also provides municipal staff. In any case, in view of the circumstances, in 2014 the Council of Education and Culture put a convention on the table, an agreement for the Vigo Council to sign and to work together for a new librarian facility in the city of olivic. Until today, and it's been almost two years, the Galician Union and the vicars have no answer from the Vigo Town Hall, and I think it's time, it's time that once and for all we can work together and stop putting obstacles in the way for Vigo's best infrastructure. Therefore, the deficiencies that I will list before, and which I can still reiterate, are that there is no exhibition room, there is no room suitable for the development of child activities, there is not enough space to collect the books they need, etc. So, I think it's fundamental that in the same way as all the capitals of the province of Spain, and that many important cities of Spain, they have a public library of the State, Vigo also counts with it. And this, I repeat once again, needs three commitments. On the one hand, the commitment of the Vigo Council to make the land available. On the other hand, the State's commitment, which has already been a commitment made in various budgets, in 2013, for example, where there was already a specific budget share for the construction of this library. But what was going on? Why couldn't this budget split be carried out? Well, it's very simple: because the Vigo Town Hall didn't make the land available to the state. And so, even today, we're still waiting for the Vigo Town Hall to put a solution on the table. In one case the auditorium was mentioned, in other cases it was mentioned about Navia, but never, there was never a firm proposal on the table. And without land, as it is evident, nothing can be built. We've seen this same problem with the City of Justice; it's not a new problem. We have already seen the lack of institutional collaboration in leaving functions of the mayor of Vigo not signing the Metropolitan Transport Plan. We've seen what it's like not to give up the ground to build a hospital, not to build the highways to the hospital, etc., etc. We've seen what it's like to boycott a law in the Vigo metropolitan area. We've seen all of this, and the result that all of this has been a clear prejudice to all the vicars and all the vicars. And we don't want this, which we consider a key to Vigo's development, to be a problem for Vigo's mayor. So I think today is the right time for a unanimous parliamentary agreement to leave this House in order for Vigo to have an infrastructure with which many cities already count, and that is why I believe in the text of the proposal that we raise today to this House and that I am going to read next and that is: "The Galician Parliament urges the Galician Union to carry out the appropriate managements before the Central Government to try to ensure that the opening of a public library of the State in Vigo can be a reality as soon as possible and, in particular, to demand that the Vigo Council make available a suitable location for this centre." We're not talking about deadlines, we're not talking about anything in particular, I think it's the minimum commitment that can be made to the Board, that can be demanded from the Council and that it can be demanded from the State, that is to cooperate, coordinate and work together for a fundamental infrastructure for Vigo that already have other cities and that until now Vigo has not had it because the Town Council has not made available those lands. So I ask you to vote in favour of Vigo having the public library of the state you need and already have many cities throughout Spain. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u106	Thank you, Mr. Dorado. Intervention of parliamentary groups. Joint Group. Mrs. Churches.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u107	Good day again. Thank you, President. I very much fear that this PNL of building a public library in Vigo will be the result of an electoral strategy of bipartisanism. Anyway, I want to make it clear that this Member is a firm defender of public libraries as centres of promotion, of creation, and therefore generators of educational, cultural and, like not, economic goods. With the premise that the librarian services remain revenue to the authors, it is pointed out that European and Spanish legislation is prejudicial to libraries which oblige holders to pay fees for the services of the loan, a legal imposition which confuses rights with interest and which has a toxic influence on the development of public services, to consider libraries as entities that economically harm creators, as it is unacceptable to overburden entities that provide public librarian services with rates that will lower their assumptions and that will prevent the proper fulfilment of their social, educational and cultural activities. Public libraries must not pay, they must not pay for their activity of promoting the creation and dynamizing the consumption of cultural products. Moreover, the promotion they carry out of works that house them implies greater knowledge of them and means a long way of use over time. The libraries organize presentations of works, hearings and cycles, recommend works in guides and centers of interest, coordinate reading clubs and other actions to promote reading and culture. They've never been asked to compensate publishers and authors for the promotion of their work. Libraries, free services that don't charge for their business, they don't have to pay for it either. In addition, the Spanish libraries do not have sufficient budgets, those affected by the canon – the public – each year have less budget for acquisition. At the moment, the only beneficiaries of the royal decree are the collectors, the copyright management societies, a royal decree passed without the necessary interlocution and which presents technical difficulties and a series of dispositors, inconsistencies in payment responsibilities. The royal decree exempts libraries from educational institutions, regardless of whether they are public or private, forgetting that the public library acts as a school and university library. The same treatment cannot be given to private centres as to the public, nor should the educational function of the public library be denied. It also makes it difficult to calculate fees, laborious work that the holders of public libraries must also quantify, as a job will be done for the private entities to whom the collection is granted. Moreover, inequality in the collection established. The approved legislation allows management societies to collect non-representative authors, so they would be getting illicit enrichment, because they get non-represented public money. Since the adoption of European legislation, the States of the Union have amended their intellectual property legislation on the basis of what they politically decided on by their governments. Because, if the directive affirms the right to remuneration to the authors for rent or loan, it also admits that it is the States that decide how certain provisions are determined –Article 6.1– and that certain provisions –Article 6.3– are exempted and even allowed to be legislated in this respect always and when a remuneration is established –Article 6.2–. The justification for the application of the canon is that Spain has to transpose European legislation into the state and therefore national law, and that it is therefore the European Parliament and the Council of the Union who are obliged to pay, truths to half a government that has always been in favour of regulating management societies. The European Regulation simply indicates that remuneration systems need to be sought, but it allows Member States to decide how they apply and to which they affect something logical, since library financing systems are different according to countries. If Spanish public libraries don't charge for their services, as in Europe, how will they pay for them? That's why I present this amendment, to suppress the librarian canon in all public libraries, because it's a legal imposition that confuses rights with interests and consolidates a disincentive that has a pernicious impact on the development of public services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u108	Thank you, Mrs Iglesias. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. Mrs. Adam.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u109	Thank you, President. We're talking about Vigo's library. The truth is, by preparing this initiative, I come to a conclusion: let the years pass quickly! 2007: "The Ministry of Culture will create a State library in Vigo", without location, because I explained earlier, speaking of Piruli, which will be for empty buildings in Vigo, uh!, there are buildings, and at that time was the Panifier. But in 2009, he said, "The State library would be located in García Barbon." Despaired panifier, which was a central site and, indeed, with many possibilities to be a library, could not, due to problems of expropriation – it would have to go more often. "The State library is moving away from Vigo," 2012; now the government delegate himself says the Panifier doesn't and we don't know where he's going to be. 2013, audience, Sea de Vigo – another possibility –, Junta sees the State library in the audience from far and wide; 2013, we know nothing. But if in 2013 we also know – since you talked about the central library, which I personally know a lot, I've spent a lot of hours, hours in this library – that the central library is the one that less resources it receives from Galicia, the Union and the State – if you want to take note of the commitments of the Government of Greece and the State with Vigo –. And we've reached this day and their initiative. I would like to read you an amendment to the State budgets which has been registered by the Olaya Fernández Davila and Rosana Pérez Fernández. It is Amendment 3428 to the budgets of the State of 2016, which is published in the Official Gazette of the General Courts, the Congress of Deputies and Deputies on 1 September 2015. This amendment is a discharge to Section 18, Service 11, of Program 337B, Article 62, for the project "public library of the State in Vigo". For your knowledge, Mr. Dorado, the Group of the People's Party voted against this amendment to state budgets. This is reality, so we are. The People's Party today brings an initiative with regard to the State library in Vigo that I think no one has to justify it, because it's already a project that takes many years and it really takes a lot, not just so that people can study, because the university is already begging for this with some of its open libraries and wide schedules, but to foster culture, love for book, for children and for children, and to really dynamize an important part of the culture in Vigo and throughout its region. But, frankly, Mr. Dorado, after you voted against this amendment, what is the real will to bring this project forward? What is the debate we are having today about the State library in Vigo? Know that we, without budgetary commitment, will not believe it. If there's no budgetary commitment to the State library, we can't believe it, we think it's literature, that it has to be part of that library, but it doesn't have to be part of political action. Because, at this point and after ten years of debate on the state public library in Vigo, of commitments from different ministries, now, if there is no budgetary commitment, we cannot vote in favour. That's why our amendment goes that way: budgetary commitment. And since you, in addition, have such a big complaint for dialogue, dialogue with the Vigo Council, because of course dialogue with the Vigo Council, look for the location that is necessary – it will be for buildings!, that's what's missing -. Actually, well, there was even a moment when the House of Arts itself was valued, if I don't miss my memory. It's not a building problem, Mr. Dorado, it's a political will problem. Do you want the People's Party to make the state library in Vigo? For four years in this legislation he didn't want and closed these budgets by voting against a BNG amendment to state budgets for this library. So compromises on the table and then we talk about the library. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u110	Thank you, Mrs. Adam. Parliamentary Group of the Left Galician Alternative. Mr. Ron.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u111	Well, good morning to all and all. The truth is... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Well, the fact is that this initiative is very good at showing contradictions and character, because in this case it's merely strategic, even electoralist, to harm different political options, with respect to the value that the People's Party gives to libraries all of a sudden. I'm just reading as a captatio benevolence and introduction: "The libraries are fundamental cultural institutions at the service of the community and play an essential role in ensuring access to free and equal citizens in training and knowledge of culture." All right, it's a basic right. However, the People's Party systematically, in committee, here in full, boycotted with its refusal how much initiative was aimed at improving the right saying. For example, here it has already been remembered, in particular, that the Left Galician Alternative had brought here one to derogate the librarian canon, to do everything possible and to create requirements for those institutions such as museums, archives, libraries, hemerotheques, phonographs, public-sector films or general-interested entities, of a cultural, scientific, non-profit educational nature, not to be penalized for precisely trying to guarantee that right of access to culture. We're in favour of that right of access, we're in favor of libraries, but you've systematically committed what we call bibliocide. Because you now bring this initiative, but in budgets, systematically, since the beginning of the legislation, you have cut off the Board of Galicia's how far away you should devote the library budget to it. The 60% cut since 2009, for example, was 1,250,000, up to 500,000 in 2012, just to put that first moment, and it continued to be cut, and then it's on the frozen plateau, on the plain. You have cut out in the acquisition of librarian funds, in publishing, in works on the library network, in the promotion of reading and book and in the promotion of reading. And I remind you that, with the library cannon, Anabad warned of the disastrous consequences that it would have. But now you're taking an initiative because you're worried because Vigo doesn't have a state library. We'd like there to be a state library, of course. But you're only doing it with clear, strategic intent, how they've been acting since the municipal elections. You're bringing local initiatives with a single strategic purpose, sectarian and partisan, and therefore in that game we're not going to fall from that point on. We are in favour of the defence of basic rights and access to culture, access to education. Access to information is one of them. That's why logically you should do everything you can to ensure that these entities are not penalized and have to face the payment of the librarian canon. That's a first step. And a second step, canceling those orders that exactly make the libraries of big cities even cut in their rights. So, you have every chance to make it in the 2016 budgets, now that we are going to discuss precisely the amendments, both the whole and the partial ones, accept all those initiatives that are designed precisely to improve the functioning of libraries throughout Galicia. You prove that you are in favour of the public service, of law, of access, of guaranteeing the right to access to culture, of the right to education, because these entities are precisely the ones that allow us to access that and access to information. If you do that, then later they bring this initiative back and we may agree, but while we will not fall into your game, in that strategic game, sectarian, partyist, which only wants to undermine the alternatives that have been created in the legitimate and democratic game in the municipal elections, and therefore we in that, Alternative Left Gaga, will not fall. We are in favour of culture, for the right to culture, for education, for information, but not so. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u112	Thank you, Mr. Ron. Socialist Parliamentary Group. Mr. Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u113	Thank you, President. Good morning to all of you. I thought today and was convinced that I was going to have a good day, for personal matters of mine I thought it would be a great day. But really, after listening to the President's speech, goodbye to the day. [[Laughter]] Really, I'm sorry, and I'm thinking up high. I want us all to consider whether it is useful to make laws and approve laws here, if it is useful to debate something that we are discussing specifically yesterday – see what happens yesterday – which was the whole debate of the Transparency and Good Government Bill. [[Applause]] I think not, I think we're wrong, we're turning our backs on citizens and citizens and, above all, women. The President's speech today, the answers he gave are entrepreneurship, entrepreneurship... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u114	Mr. Gallego, on the matter.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u115	No, call me in order, but I'm going to the debate...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u116	No, no.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u117	He hasn't been in the debate and told us about unemployment when he never talks about unemployment, and he's been talking about unemployment.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u118	That's the question, Mr. Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u119	So there's no question about it. I'll talk about what I want to talk about...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u120	Mr. Gallego, on the matter.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u121	...because I think and I'm convinced that if we keep going that way, it's better that we all go home.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u122	No, no. Mr. Gallego, please go...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u123	You can't afford to...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u124	...the question.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u125	...the President's intervention today.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u126	Mr. Galician... silence, please. [[Murmurs.]] I'm talking to Mr. Gallego. I'm begging you to get to the point, Mr. Gallego. Let's do it!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u127	You can't afford it. And as a Member I really say, I say it from the heart.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u128	Mr. Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u129	And here we were not judging anyone, we were saying that I had made political decisions...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u130	On this issue, Mr. Gallego, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u131	...who would make political decisions...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u132	The question is...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u133	...and that no one was judged.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u134	Mr. Gallego, it's been two minutes, eh!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u135	It's a shame what happened here today. I think, really, if we go on like this...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u136	Mr. Gallego, on the matter.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u137	...that if we go on like this...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u138	No, no, Mr. Gallego, I call you by order.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u139	...it's better if we all go home.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u140	Mr. Gallego, I call you by order. [[Interruptions.]] That's the question, Mr. Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u141	To the point. I really think they're still...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u142	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u143	...the People's Party is still unaware of nothing that's going on in Vigo, and they don't learn, and they follow and want to rule from Galician Union or from Parliament the Vigo Council. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Mr. Dorado, what's going on? What's the next candidate going to be? Because lately what they don't do in the Vigo Town Hall, they don't do anything, nothing, nothing, nothing, come here. Do you think it's credible that you're bringing here today an initiative on Vigo's public library? Do you think...? They've been ruling in Madrid for four years, and what have they done so far? All the amendments that we submit to budgets every year, and BNG, too, have always voted against, always. And you come here today with the cynicism they're using lately, and you bring an initiative for what? If the Government is in office and the Government and Mr. Rajoy will not rule Spain again! [[Applause]] But who do they want to make fools? Do you want to take our hair? Do you want to take your hair, once more, to the beams and to the beams? No, the vicars and the vicars don't let themselves be deceived. They won't be fooled and they won't be fooled. And they don't learn. And I'm going to tell them: as they do, they're going to disappear in Vigo, because they don't rule Vigo. In Vigo there is a democratically elected government, elected a few months ago, with seventeen concellers, and you come here, and you speak of coordination. But if the library in Vigo until last year was paid by the entire Vigo Town Hall, which wasn't his competence, and you didn't count twenty thousand times on initiatives to... and nothing was done. And now there's... and they bring in one more occurrence from the library. Look, the beams and the beams, you know what they want? Let the hospital be public. Let the parking be free. [[Applause]] That's what the beams and the beams want. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And have a lab. And they don't want... to leave it to the government, to manage the library. And do you know why it's changed two or three times location and, above all, the last one? Because a mayor of the People's Party re-qualified the Panifier. The Panifier has reclassified it, the land. And of course, now you have to expropriate them, now you have to expropriate them. But look...! You have to have a little sentinel, a little sentinel, and that's why you're paralyzed, because you have to pay to the promoter, who the mayor raised the land, Mrs. Porro. And I really don't think they really don't know each other and they don't want to know each other, they don't know each other and they don't want to know each other, and, as they do, I'm going to repeat it again, in Vigo they're going to disappear. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u144	Thank you, Mr. Gallego. Group author of the non-law proposal. Mr. Golden.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u145	Thank you very much, President. Well, first of all, thank you for the work of the amendments of the Joint Group and the Nationalist Block of Galicia. Only one of the four opposition groups was worthy of speaking of Vigo's public library, in this case Mrs. Adam. The rest haven't talked about Vigo's public library, they're not interested in anything, they're not interested in anything. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u146	Quiet, Mrs. Thursdays, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u147	Mrs. Iglesias spoke of the librarian canon. There will be another initiative, if you consider it appropriate, but this is an initiative for a public library of the State in Vigo. I was talking about the Galician Nationalist Block of an amendment that they present to the general government budgets, but I'm telling you, Mrs. Adam, that the current government has already set up a budget game for several exercises for the public library in Vigo. What's the matter? That cannot be executed while there are no grounds. So, as it says in English, step by step, step by step. And, step by step, we'll first have to have land to invest money; if we have money but we don't have land, what's it worth? because we won't be able to execute it. So first the land, step by step. Mr. Ron – who is not, from what I see, in the House – well, to say that talking about the public library of the State of Vigo is a strategic, sectarian and partisan game, I think it's an offense to all the vigues. Because this library is something that people are demanding, that they deserve the vigues, just as all citizens of the cities of Spain deserve it, and therefore it is not sectarian to talk about it in Vigo; they already have it in other parts, in other parts of Spain. And, by the way, Mr. Gallego, I will inform you. A government comes into function when elections are held, and until elections are held the Government is in full power. No, you just said the government is in office. He would like you, Mr. Gallego, to let the Government stop ruling... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u148	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u149	...but, fortunately, Spain has a government that will never cease to rule until the last day. And when we talk about ruling until the last day, we also talk about defending Vigo's interests until the last day. [[Applause]] We will defend Vigo's interests until the last day, in Spain, in Galicia, in Pontevedra and where it is necessary, despite the constant obstacles that the mayor of Vigo places so that this is not done. I don't know, Mr. Gallego, whose face you're going to come to Vigo tomorrow to tell the vigues who voted against the opening of a public library in Vigo. What are you going to teach the vigues to vote against Vigo's inclusion in the Metropolitan Transport Plan? With what face will he tell the vicars that they don't stop torpedoing day after day fundamental infrastructures for our city? With what face, Mr. Gallego? Look, you'll talk... you'll talk constantly... [[Mr. Gallego Lomba pronounces words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u150	Quiet, Mr. Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u151	...of the municipal results in May, but I'm going to give you some advice, Mr. Gallego: there are a lot of people who die of success, and lately the Socialist Party dies, I don't know if it's successful, but it's dying. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u152	Thank you very much, Mr. Dorado. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. People of Galicia, at the initiative of Da Rosa Oubina Solla and seven other Members, on the development by the Government of Galicia of a new decree establishing the requirements and procedures for the recognition, modification and conditions of operation of information centres for women
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u153	This motion for a non-law amendment was tabled by the Joint Parliamentary Group, the Socialist Parliamentary Group and the Parliamentary Group of the Glaga Alternative of the Left.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u154	For the defense of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Oubina has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u155	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning to all and all, good day to all the boys who accompany us today from the rostrum. From the People's Party today we bring here a non-law proposal to request the drafting of a new decree for women's information centres. As you know, August 4, 2004 published in the Official Journal of Galicia the decree regulating information centres to women, which we all know by CIM, the decree in which the requirements are laid down for both their recognition and their functioning. We believe that, after more than ten years, we consider it necessary to carry out your review, in order to update it, in order to adapt it to the new times and also to the current new circumstances. In this sense, and given the important work done up to the date by the CIMs, it requires the Administration to give a new impetus to both the continuity of this service and the improvement of the work being done in them. It is known to everyone that the Galician Union, through the General Secretariat of Equality, also in collaboration with local entities, has a network of women's care centres distributed throughout the territory of Galicia, through which, as you know, actions are developed, particularly of a preventive and awareness-raising nature, which are used as a resource for providing information on all, to facilitate guidance, diversion and follow-up to women who suffer from gender-based violence. I mean, this information and care network for women works, as you know, in close collaboration, because both with social services and with health services and school guidance, as well as with emergency and citizen security services. According to the latest data provided by the General Secretariat of Equality in this year 2014, Galicia currently has 80 information centres for women, 28 distributed in the province of Coruña, 11 in the province of Lugo, 14 in Ourense and 27 in the province of Pontevedra. They cared for about 20,000 people, and they also conducted 68,000 consultations. Most of these consultations, in areas of psychological care, in the legal area, and also, as I said before, attention to victims of gender-based violence. To them the Government of the Galician Union budgeted more than EUR 3.440 million last year 2014. This data reveals the need and magnitude of this service since its inception by a Government of the People's Party, to which we have to add that in this last year 2014 the General Secretariat of Equality has provided these information centres to women with a new IT tool to manage, in order to ensure greater data security, as well as to facilitate the handling of files. As for the order in the last call of the council order for 2015, to which the Socialist Party submits an amendment and intends to cancel, an amount of more than EUR 4,660,000 is allocated, which means an increase of 36.46 % more than it has been perceived in 2014. Its purpose is to continue to cooperate economically with the local entities of Galicia, in promoting and carrying out actions aimed at promoting the conditions necessary to make the principle of equality between women and men effective, through programmes such as the information centres support programme, such as the Conciliation Promotion Programme, which has increased by 64% more than the year 2014, or also the comprehensive prevention and treatment of gender violence programme, which has been increased by 26% more than in 2014. The maximum amount of these aids, as you know, is up to EUR 45,000, in individual applications cases, and up to EUR 120,000 if the application is combined or shared by several municipalities, i.e. EUR 20,000 more than last year, and these local entities can also, as a very important measure, have in the form of advance up to 75% of the grant granted, a measure also established by this government as support for the municipalities to promote and continue working on equality policies. In relation to what we present today, why the need for a new decree? From the People's Group we propose the amendment of the regulation and accreditation regulations for information centres to women, which depend, as I said before, on local entities, because they must therefore address new actions as may be, for example, the updating of the accreditation requirements for CIMs, gathering aspects because they were not covered by the previous decree of 2004, or because these we say they are not appropriate to the current reality of the CIMs, as they may therefore be the possibility to believe the CIS dependents of city councils that so they freely decide to set up themselves with the object of grouping services and also to be able to reduce costs. The current decree, as you know, only provides for the possibility of believing centres that depend either on a municipality or on a community. It also establishes areas of influence for the presentation of this service, as it is evident from the object that CIMs provide this service to women living in neighbouring municipalities and that they lack a centre of these characteristics, as well as to update because the training requirements of the staff of the centres; that is, in the current decree there is a requirement for specific training in the area of equality, but not specifically because a number of hours or a type of specific training. Secondly, we also call for adaptation to the requirements of the European Commission, since this service, as it is also known, is co-financed with the European Social Fund, and it should be taken into account, for example, to guide the activities carried out in the CIMs because of the priorities set by the European Commission, such as information and guidance to improve the employability of women or also attention to women belonging to vulnerable groups, and also the need to meet information requirements, i.e. indicators of results for women at the centre. Thirdly – I think it is also very important – the possibility of introducing reference measures in relation to the necessary attention to the people of the LGTBI collective. We think it's important to keep it in mind, too. That is why, and to finish – because I am already running out of time – we hope to count on the support of this House's groups. We are bringing here today this non-law proposal, which says: "The Council of Galicia is going to draw up a new decree establishing the requirements and procedures for the recognition, modification and conditions of operation of information centres to women." For now nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u156	Thank you, Mrs. Oubina. Intervention of parliamentary groups. Joint Group. Mrs. Churches.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u157	Thank you, President. Decree 182/2004 of 22 July 2004, which you wish to reform with this initiative, sets out in Article 4(8) "Functions": specific attention to women victims of gender violence, making available, facilitating or reporting on access to existing resources in the Autonomous Community through urgent management with appropriate police, health, psychological, judicial and social services. I wonder what the attention would be given to a victim of the masculine violence in the form of sexual harassment at work in a reformed CIM and managed by a government and a party, the People's Party, who not only does not publicly condemn and does not take political action towards their responsibilities as a public prosecutor, the president of the House of Ourense, who, through recordings and messages that demonstrate corrupt practices and sexual harassment in the adjudication of public squares of the U.S. Deputy of Ourense, but, at the mouth of the President of the Council and the Galician PP, criminalizes the alleged victim in declaration to the media, a government that, on the other hand, has applied brutal cuts in equality policies. With these background, ladies and gentlemen, it's impossible to believe in your political will to achieve a society in equality for all, citizens and citizens, treated as subjects by one of your high positions while you're doing such a job or looking elsewhere. A society that develops new family models and new living spaces but also a society where masculine violence is increasing day by day, as we're checking with the latest data. Violence that, sustained and fueled by the most misogynistic stereotypes of the heteropatriarchy, makes us cohesive to women, sinking into the gap of the most unjust and irrational inequality. I share the need for reform of the CIS. In fact, she presented to the committee a GNP amending the CIS which was unanimously adopted on one of its points and published in the Official Journal of the Galician Parliament, which says: "The Galician Parliament urges the Union to expressly subsidize programmes for the care and training of the CIS". I have this amendment, which I hope will be accepted, because, while I agree, the resolution text seems incomplete to me. As they are their policies, it seems to me essential that, in order to achieve social consensus and to meet women's demands – which you have to collect the demands of women – consensus is essential and that it be done with the feminist movement in Galicia. You want us to approve a text for the reform of the CIS which says nothing, nothing at all, which aspects want to change, with which human and budgetary resources will count – after the cuts applied in equality policies, they understand our fear – if they will agree with the feminist groups, the trade union groups and the other social agents involved, that programs will develop. That is why I am presenting this amendment, Mr Oubina, that new project of the CIS which has already agreed with the feminist social movements and other bodies involved in the fight against masculine violence and equality policies, with particular attention to older women and rural women. In addition, budgets and human resources will be approached to address the new challenges of equality and co-responsibility according to the needs and demands of women's groups of the 21st century. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u158	Thank you, Mrs Iglesias. Parliamentary Group of the Left Galician Alternative. You have the word to Mrs. Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u159	Thank you, President. Well, it'll be a coincidence, but the truth is it's at least shocking to have to debate this initiative here now. The truth is that I haven't even rejected what we've just lived through, I say honestly, and I don't mean it, because it's okay, and I repeat it before: I repudiate the situation that has lived in this House and that even today we have to suffer this kind of aggravating of women, not only those we are in this House, but any woman, on the part of whom they say represent all the Greeks and Greeks, as it has been said here. It's not true. This gentleman doesn't represent me, but not just because I'm another political organization, he doesn't represent me as a woman, and I feel deep contempt for an individual...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u160	Mrs. Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u161	Tell me, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u162	Let's focus on the question and...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u163	This is the question, macho violence. You did not demand the President of the Government to focus on the matter.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u164	Mrs. Solla, this subject, this subject, sorry, this subject has already been debated. So, I...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u165	I'm indifferent, I'm indifferent.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u166	Time is passing. If you won't let me talk...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u167	It doesn't matter, no, no.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u168	I'm gonna stop the time. I just want to say that this matter has already been taken up. I'm not stopping you from making any reference at a given time, but another thing is dedicating the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u169	I think it's serious enough and you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u170	And besides – I haven't finished yet, if they leave me, I haven't finished yet – what I'm not going to tolerate are direct accusations against the honour and dignity of no Member.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u171	Well, don't tolerate it either to the President, don't tolerate it to the President, Madam President. And as a woman, you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u172	So I'm going to drop the charges, Mrs. Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u173	No, no, I'm not taking them off.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u174	But I'll take them back and call her in order.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u175	You, as a woman, should feel equally indignant. Moreover, I don't think the ladies of the People's Party would like to hear what Mr. President said. Because I do believe that there are worthy women also in the rest of political groups and parties and that they have to suffer from macho attitudes like the ones we saw today by the president, and I am indifferent to you calling me to the matter or order and taking my words away from me. It's okay. [[Applause]] Madam Oubina, regarding the initiative, frankly and before what we have just seen and for all the samples and budget cuts in the field of gender equality, we also believe that the decree governing the CIS should be amended, but I doubt that you can do so in condition. There are nine months left of this government, and frankly, I don't understand that's what they intend to do with that regulation. We have established or tabled an amendment which is largely based on the intervention of the directors and workers of the CIS in this Equality Commission of the Galician Parliament. We understand that it should serve something, and they gave us a number of recommendations; in fact, some of them we took virtually literally. We believe it is more important to support the work they are doing, and for that it is necessary to establish a protocol and coordination between the professional schools of counseling and the legal advice of the CIS in order to promote compliance with the right to comprehensive social assistance. That was legally requested by them, specifically by the CIM of the Crown, and they denounced the administrative and legal obstacles women have to gain access to their right to legal protection and all the "passes" – between comments and colloquially – that they had to give themselves to request, in many cases, aid that would theoretically protect the law. That's why we also call for coordination between the CIS and the legal agents and the Corps and Security Forces for a formative plan on violence from the perspective of gender, not from anything else. Because they also complained in the commission that unfortunately many of the people who had to attend their complaints in police stations, etc., questioned the truth of the testimonies of many of them they were going to report, and therefore we understand that that is where to work. And, of course, there's one point that's very important. You call on the Central Government to remove regulations that limit public procurement by facilitating recruitment and employment stability in the CIS. In the CISG there are precarious, temporary contracts, wage contracts – the truth is, the comrades who came to the commission were already telling us – quite embarrassing. And the Local Administration's Law of Rationalization and Sustainability, as at 27/2013, limits public procurement and may even withdraw the powers that the municipalities have in this area. The Istanbul Convention therefore demanded the promotion of equality, also cooperating with local, regional and central authorities. In order for there to be stability in the CIM and to be able to work in the right conditions, it must also be easier for them to have enough staff and in coordination, of course, with the rest of the public resources to fight against gender violence. I don't think they're going to accept this amendment, honestly, but I don't think, either, even though, of course, it's necessary to update this decree, that this Government, with which we have just seen and with which we have seen all the legislation, is able to do this.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u176	Thank you very much, Mrs. Solla. Socialist Group, Mrs Acuña do Campo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u177	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, on this day I am so close to equality. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, after the lack of respect, of the lack of commitment, of the demonstration of the most intolerable machismo that the President, Mr Feijóo, has just made, come here with an initiative on the CIS, the information centres for women. Those centers that are doing a vital job in caring for women's problems, and that most of them are under-reliefed. Ladies and gentlemen, this is where we would have to take, where we would have to report, Mr Baltar's attitude and Mr Feijó's. [[Applause]] In the study commission that on gender violence is taking place in this House, we heard the testimony of four women responsible for CIM from three different provinces, and none of them – none of them, I repeat – demanded a new decree. The problems of the CIS have been very clearly placed on us, and in addition to all of them, in insufficient resources, both economic and human; in the absolute lack of coordination of these centres with the General Secretariat of Equality and many of the other entities involved in women's problems. They signaled the daily efforts that they have to make many councils to keep these CIMs, counting on annual grants, which fosters the eventuality of the professionals and the centers. They also talked about the difficulties of paying adequate attention to part-time professionals. They've talked about how few are and how few are distributed in our territory. But I insist that none of them requested a new decree. Unfortunately, the People's Party, instead of dealing with these shortcomings and solving them, comes here asking for a decree. No, not a new decree, asking for a blank check, because in your proposal you don't put anything on how that decree would be drawn up. And look, Madam, in my group, every reform in the area of equality that comes from the People's Party arrests all our alarms, knowing their ideology, seeing their attitude and how Mr. President, the leader of their party, thinks. That's why we're not going to support your proposal for reform, unless we implement it, let's shield it a little. Because look, if what you want is to improve things, you'll have to accept our amendment. Otherwise, it'll be proven that what you're trying to do is to end up with the women's information centres as well. By the way, and talking about CIM, you know, PP ladies and gentlemen, the mess, the mess! that you have assembled with the 8th October Resolution, by which do you regulate the bases for this year's grants for these centres? I ask you, please, to visit the CIS in your respective territories and to check the horrendous rejection. Look, in every CISG we consult in our group, we make sure it's an unrealistic, impossible-to-be resolution, and it also compromises confidentiality. You ask them to cover, in the attention of each woman, a thousand forms, and in those forms they want to include the name, the surnames, the DNI, the address, the signature of the woman and the reason for the consultation. But what are they going on about? Do you want to make those women a police record? Is that what you're after? Look, from our group we've asked for the immediate withdrawal of this unfortunate resolution. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, we are tired of being used by the People's Party to obtain European funds, as in this case of what we are talking about; to regain electoral support from the worst sectors, to change the law of abortion, and to use us even to satisfy the sexual desires of jackals such as Mr Baltar, and all the welcome of the group, as we have been able to see today, and the support of the President. Women are tired, as the massive mobilization in Madrid has shown.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u178	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u179	... –Finished – where we were all, all except the ladies of the People's Party, who didn't see them there. Neither they nor the citizens' ones, I imagine they mount so much. If they want to amend the decree, be it to ensure the staffing of the ISCs of the necessary personnel, in number and in training; and both to care for women and to care for the minor victims; with stable labour ties and fair and sufficient wages for those professionals, economically supported, directly by the Autonomic Administration. And, of course, once that damn resolution has been withdrawn, and from that reform of the local administration, everything that could compromise attention. That is precisely what our amendment contains, which we hope and hope that, in order to eliminate a little of the President's attitude, will be accepted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u180	Thank you very much, Mrs. Acuña. Nationalist Block Galego. Mrs. Adam Villamarín.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u181	Thank you, President. Good day again. Let me begin this intervention with a little anecdote. On Saturday morning I gave a talk about feminicide and, at the end of the day, a 20-year-old girl approached me to comment that she had done her final career work on sexual harassment at work, and that she had never really thought that sexual harassment had been characterized as a modality of macho violence, but that she had been very listening to him why they were. And I started to explain that perception that all women probably have -- that's why PP's women also lower their heads -- that when you're young, classmates, when you start your work life, bosses, the environment around you -- sexually harassed women. Something this girl used to explain to me very well, as then she doesn't complain because the unions also, sometimes, the men you get understand the practices, there's no data. The workmates, if you denounce them, don't talk to you again, or if you report them, then you're victimized and total ridicule in the workplace... even they put your name in them, they don't speak to you again. That's the reality of women in general, and they're many. Surely all of us here know girls and women who suffered sexual harassment from people who had power, and who actually martyred them their lives. It's a central issue, so today there's no debate more important than that debate, because it's on the basis of men's domination over women. I remembered a classic book – it's a shame you don't have here! – of Kate Millett's Sexual Policy, written more than forty years ago, which literally says "that those relationships that are thought to be given in the field of privacy and private are political relationships based on a political category such as the domination of one group over another, which clearly uses the configuration of sexuality as the domination of the male over the female." I know that this debate may seem overly theoretical to you, but that's why I, at least today, rose out of my seat. Because we're tired, and we're tired, that if you treat all the women as possible... No, I won't say it, I won't say it because I have a written article with the title of how I think many men understand that we can use women. That's why you bring here a question of equality today. I, frankly, did not amend it, nor do I intend to introduce it, because it seems to me today to talk about changing the decree of the CIMs with the Christ that they've mounted, with all the women's information centres workers looking forward to facing the Secretary-General of Equality, which, by the way, is changing? Did you hear her talk about sexual harassment? I didn't hear her. I didn't hear her. It's changing, yes. [[Murmurs.]] The Secretary General of Equality has nothing to say about sexual harassment. Well, it's something that's important. Mrs. Oubina, you know they have a problem. They want to subsidise the CIS with the European Social Fund, and the European Social Fund no longer subsidizes equality actions, only women's vulnerability actions. Oh, look for your own funds! If you reduce a department of equality, apart from being dumb, not having funds and not doing what you have to do, being almost useless, not visible, not present, then you want to transfer this to the information centers to women? Read the annex – which you probably know – where it is modified, through a unique additional provision, such as women who have to participate in equality programs, and are now women in a vulnerable situation. Of course, but these are not the women that exist, women who are vulnerable to poverty, energy poverty, for many reasons. But are women in a vulnerable situation victims of gender-based violence? Well, I don't think so. I don't think that's the name we have to give him. Or that of domestic violence, which, by the way, is present here again, domestic violence, in its resolution. You move us through a debate about the need for another way of having a network of information to women, which we agree with, and that you're a part to dismantle with the equality offices, to cover up an administrative problem, which they don't know how to solve this resolution where they start to modify what women's information centres have to do with.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u182	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u183	How can CIMs not make equality plans? Like they can't make equality plans? Are not actions against gender-based violence in equality plans? I am because Mr. Feijóo already sees him as dismissed, for me, since today, if not, he would have no need for an equality plan, an intensive course of equality. And yet, we'd see! Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u184	Thank you very much, Mrs. Adam. Group author of the non-law proposal. You have the floor to Mrs. Oubina.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u185	Thank you, Madam President. Today several groups of this Parliament have tabled amendments. I'm going to refer to Mrs. Adam, who was the one who spoke last and who did not present amends because, of course, Mrs. Adam came here to talk about another subject, I didn't come here to talk about the decrees of the CIS. More importantly, remember, when you were Secretary General of Equality, you didn't want the CIM, Mrs. Adam, so now it's bad for you. [[Murmurs.]] I wanted to close them, yes ma'am, yes ma'am. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] They had another network; you had another network. [[Murmurs.]] As for the amendments tabled, Mrs. Acuña, by the Socialist Party...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u186	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u187	...which contain several points... If you let me finish, because I have little time, to tell you that what you want in one of your amendments is to cancel the local entity help bases by this 2015. The truth is that this seems to me to be irresponsible and, above all, not serious, Mrs. Acuña. [[Murmurs.]] What you ask is to leave the Town Councils without the help... [[Madam Acuña do Campo speaks words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u188	Hide
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u189	...for women's information centres.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u190	Ma'am, do me a favor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u191	We don't share that demand.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u192	I'll call her in order.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u193	I wonder, Mrs. Acuña, if you think of the councils, especially of the Socialist Party, that you want to leave them without the subsidy for the maintenance of the CIS. As far as staff is concerned, you know that CIMs have to comply with a minimum of the established staff, and in addition, these staff are already specific to the functions they have assigned. As far as Mrs Solla is concerned, she has spoken of something else as well, but as for the amendments that speak of coordination, the information centres for women are fully coordinated with the social health centres, emergency services and with the State Corps and Security Forces. Yes, Mrs. Solla, take a look at this. Who else spoke of this matter was Mrs. Churches. He's talking about older people and also about rural women. Tell her that these are already served at the women's information centres. But I would like to say, in conclusion, that the commitment of the People's Party to the defense of women's equality, and especially women who are victims of gender-based violence, is beyond doubt, gentlemen. We have maintained the wage for freedom and we are one of the only two autonomous communities that we have been able to keep during a time of crisis; more than that, we have been able to increase the number of CIMs since 2009. And for all this, I as a woman, committed to gender equality, militarized in the People's Party, so I defend and support my group this initiative. So we're not going to admit your amendments and continue with this initiative as drafted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u194	Thank you very much, Mrs. Oubina. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Alternative Galga de Left, at the initiative of Da Eva Solla Fernández and D. Ramón Vázquez Díaz, on the actions to be carried out by Cunta de Galicia to avoid interference of the interests of the large pharmaceutical industries and laboratories in the public health of Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u195	This motion for a non-law amendment was tabled by the Joint Parliamentary Group and the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u196	To formulate the proposal has the floor to Mrs Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u197	Thank you. The 18th National Psychiatry Congress –24, 25 and 26 September – in Santiago de Compostela was sponsored by thirteen pharmacists, including Janssen – that of hepatitis C drugs, Pfizer, GlaxoSmith, Rovi, Sanofi, Ferrer..., and thus to complete the thirteen, in an activity – as we defined in the text – accredited as continuing training by the National Health System, with its corresponding credits, at the cost of between 771 and 950 euros. Actually, by the time you come in, you should be shocked that this was something public, but it seems that this situation is more than normal. We're used and used to this situation being normal. The pharmaceutical and business lobbyists of private health camp their broads in the state health system, also in Galicia, we've been discussing it on one occasion. And the speech precisely about the use of generic drugs – which I might agree – remains in a falsity, a lie, when budgets are observed like what we have, not only this year, but the previous ones, in which the pharmacy goes down on the street – that is, the primary care pharmacy – for the compensations and the drugs that came out of the catalogue, that is, that the spending has moved to the private pocket, and yet it continues to rise the budget cost of the hospital pharmacy in the budgets, without the Government having the ability to argue what is the reason. It is a fallacy, when Mr. Alonso, the Minister of Health, had left the pharmaceutical business tied and well tied just a few days ago – indecent!, just before finishing the legislation, shortly before, they left hanging from a thread the sustainability of the public health system –, PharmaIndustry, the pharmaceutical lobby, to guarantee business and benefit, guaranteeing the pharmaceutical expense by linking it to the raw internal product. It appeared on November 4 through the back door, and almost no one heard about it. It is an agreement that – not only do we say it, the schools of doctors, which tend to be conservative – mortgages the sustainability of the health system. A government that trades with our public health and binds health spending to the benefit of the great pharmaceuticals. I'm surprised, as if health were yours! Health is citizenship. Did they ask for advice?, did they ask for permission?, did they comment on the autonomous communities, which we have competences in the health system? Well, no. And, of course, that will be conditional, because by linking it to the expense of the gross domestic product, it makes it even more difficult to meet the fiscal stability objectives that the Government itself requires to meet. And, therefore, most likely this agreement can mean new "adjustments" – between quotes – i.e. health cuts, in order to be able to comply with that agreement. Yes, autonomous communities do not seem to have consulted them. They just hypothesized, once again – and probably one of the finals – the viability of our health if these measures continue to proceed. A new privatisation step, giving it up to the pharmaceutical industry, which has already, according to the European Transparency Register, sent – we say on the initiative – EUR 40 million to influence the European Commission. In what? By convincing them to accept the conditions of the free trade treaties, the TTIP, which we have on the table and which will condition all public systems and all legislation on health regulation in our country and in the rest of the European Union. That same treaty that we called for precisely in the resolutions of the debate of the nation which is limited, which we voted against, that we have stood before this new deregulation of health conditions and many other things - in the field of work, etc. - and that the major parties voted against this House. That's what he's giving money to the big pharmaceutical industry, to buy the European Commission itself, just like they do to governments. But of course, you probably find it normal because we've seen other examples. We have the Deputy Director General for Medicines of the Ministry itself, Carlos Lens, who is a lecturer and collaborator of two pharmacy lobbies: Cofares and Fuinsa. Even here in Galicia – because we've been debating it on other occasions and you seemed normal, little to call me... well, alarmist... the usual – Mr. Ares Rico, who is general director of Health Care, participates in the lobby of Sedisa, companies defending private health. Mr. Marcos Santos, a manager within the management area of the Health Council itself, participates with the lobby AECOC, where Nestlé, the English Court, Johnsons. Or the manager of the Chuvi, Mr. Mario González – not much appreciated in Vigo – has just arrived at the Quiron Group, who, curiously, only four days away, bought the Domínguez Hospital in Pontevedra, which is constantly diverted patients from public health to promote the private business. With this initiative, in addition to continuing to denounce the shame that this rotating door situation is normalized throughout the National Health System and here in Galicia too, and even in Europe – as we have just seen – we want to open the debate on what has been going on considering many normal years and decades. Even if visitors and medical visitors can influence pharmaceutical prescriptions. It's not a new thing, right? It's a long time ago in the National Health System, also in Galicia. We therefore call for the prohibition of pharmaceutical marketing activity carried out in public health centres and hospitals, especially during the working day of health professionals and in hours of care for patients. Already the Health Council should be monitoring whether in any case drugs are prescribed for some pressure or recommendation – let us lower the tone in that sense – from some laboratories. But in addition, it should not allow that commercial activity in public centres. We request that the Greek Health Administration be disengaged from the organization, financing or collaboration of all those congresses, symposia or activities that are intended or contained in its programming the promotion of certain pharmaceutical, health or orthopedic products. We're not sales branches, we're talking about the health of the Greeks and the Greeks, and we can't condition it to the pharmaceutical business or any other private company. These gentlemen have their ability to do their private business – up there, well, very well – but not with our health; and, of course, not with public resources. We call for a sufficient training offer to be guaranteed, and here we quote the Galaga School of Health Administration, and we know very well – we are discussing it in our own budgets – of the creation of the Galician Knowledge Agency, providing it with the necessary resources and funds to enable it to carry out its own functions, including continuing training and evaluation of new health technologies, health research and scientific dissemination. We can't depend on research, development and innovation, we can't depend on the sustainability of the public system, private companies. So tell me where the independence is that the administration should have. The administration in this way is obviously totally conditioned by companies, and that represents a very fine red line with the rotational doors and favors within the administration, and we've already seen in cases of corruption as they end. The problem is that this is probably not punishable because it's normalized. And this has to start undressing, this has to start denouncing it, this is not normal, and public health systems cannot depend on the pressure of big pharmaceuticals because we are lost and lost, because they and they are the ones that condition the tests that they do, the drugs that we take, how, and why. So we understand that we have to start working to disengage ourselves from the big private lobbies. We understand that they are quite complex and quite profound points, but there can be nothing else because, at least from this group, we're going to continue to denounce a situation that we don't find normal and that we know is normalized within the Health Council, which is precisely the relationship with the big business lobbyies. Nothing else for now.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u198	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. For the Mixed Group, Mrs. Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u199	Thank you, President. Most pharmaceutical companies are international in nature and are present in many countries through subsidiaries. Globalization allowed them to maximize their profits, since they buy raw materials in countries where they are cheap, install factories where wages are lower and sell products where the population has greater purchasing power; a round business. The pharmaceutical industry is one of the world's most important economic sectors. The Fortune 2002 list, which collected the world's 500 largest companies, showed that the profits of the ten largest pharmaceutical companies exceeded the profits accumulated by the other 490 companies. The pharmaceutical market exceeds profits from arms sales or telecommunications. For every dollar invested in manufacturing a drug, you get $1,000 profit. The pharmaceutical sector is characterized by oligopolistic competition, in which twenty-five companies control 50% of the world market. Competitive capacity is based on R & D, the appropriation of earnings through the patent system and the control of marketing chains. These patent systems make the prices that they set very high, so many last-generation drugs are inaccessible to a large part of the population, such as the treatment of hepatitis C and how it happens, in many parts of the world, with many drugs needed for life. More indecent is the system of drug patents if we bear in mind that governments and consumers finance 84% of the research, while laboratories finance only 12%. They reduce the research into diseases that mainly affect poor countries because they are not profitable, while they concentrate on the problems of populations with greater purchasing power, although they are not disease. So, we can check how it proliferates, for example, anti-aging medication. According to the U.S. FDA, an agency that authorizes the sale of drugs, only 20% of the investment in research was to stop products that provide a remarkable improvement in disease. 90% of the pharmaceutical budget for new medicines for R & D is allocated to 10% of the diseases in the world. Its oligopoly power is jeopardizing the sustainability of public health systems and access to medicines for the majority of the population. The pharmaceutical industry, in addition, has generated very serious health problems, such as thalidomide, which came out of the Spanish state for free. The profit margin of these industries is very important, reaching between 70% and 90%, with a profit rate of 20%, which exceeds 15.8 of commercial banks. The increase in costs is not related to investment in research and development, but to costs associated with marketing and product promotion. While in research and development drugs receive 13% of the budget, marketing costs exceed 30% and 35% of the budget. Less than 25% of the new medicines are innovative. The European Agency for the Evaluation of Medicinal Products is funded by a total of 80% by multinational pharmaceuticals. Until recently it was common for large pharmaceutical companies to pay bribes to doctors for prescriptions. This is proven, said AGE's voicer, and I've seen it personally. There are, therefore, things that cannot be denied. With the increase of controls, which have been done, the laboratories are developing other strategies to support economically, organizing congresses and meetings with sick organizations and doctors, to seek support from them and to pressure them to prescribe their brand, the brand of their laboratory. So I'm going to vote in favour of this non-law proposal that presents AGE even if I don't accept the amendment I tabled, because the pharmaceutical industry has turned disease into a business. They're the ones who decide which diseases and those who are sick deserve cures. In the Spanish state, there's a shortage of 170 drugs, whose supply doesn't secure for pharmaceuticals because they have a low price. My amendment asks me to add a point 4 that says: "deroll public research, guiding it towards the main health problems and developing public patents that allow for dealing with private patents, preposing the right to health to the business benefits of the pharmaceutical industry." Because only with public patents will public health be guaranteed. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u200	For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, for your defense, Mrs Acuña do Campo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u201	Thank you, President. Good day again, ladies and gentlemen, on this day I am so close to equality. In fact, from the Socialist Parliamentary Group we tabled a replacement amendment to the second point of this initiative. We believe that, as the proposal is drafted, it could be deduced that it is intended to prohibit the existence of medical visits delegates. We therefore propose, for this point, an alternative wording, calling for the management of public hospitals and primary care centres to take the necessary organisational measures to ensure that the information activity of the pharmaceutical industry takes place at a time other than that specifically reserved for patients and patients. With regard to the first point of the initiative, to say that it is no longer required to comply with the Law on the Guarantees and Rational Use of Medicinal Products and Medicinal Products, applicable law, and that in Article 4, entitled Guarantees of Independence, it reads as follows: "Point 1. The clinical exercise of medicine, dentistry, veterinary medicine, as well as other health professions with the power to prescribe or indicate the dispensation of medicinal products will be incompatible with any kind of direct economic interests arising from the manufacture, manufacture, distribution, brokering and marketing of medicinal products and health products." Law in point 4 states: "The membership of the Committees of the Spanish Medicines and Sanitary Products Agency, the Ethics Committees for Clinical Research or the Committees, advisory bodies or advisory bodies established by the health administrations of the autonomous communities shall be incompatible, lordships, incompatible!, with any kind of interest derived from the manufacture and sale of medicinal products and health products". Law in paragraph 6 states: "In order to ensure the independence of decisions relating to the prescription, dispensation and administration of medicinal products in respect of commercial interests, the direct or indirect offer of any type of incentive, bonus, discounts, premiums or gifts by those who have direct or indirect interest in the production, manufacture, marketing of medicinal products, both to health professionals involved in the prescription-dispensation cycle and to the Administration, as well as to their relatives or persons of coexistence shall be prohibited." That's why nothing to object to being complied with by law, like, by the way, I'm sure that many of our health professionals and our health professionals already do. We are not so sure, in the Socialist Parliamentary Group and the Socialist Party, that the Self-Government would buy it. As far as the third point of this initiative is concerned, there is nothing to object either. This is not the first time since the Socialist Parliamentary Group to denounce the cuts applied to Fegas and the drift that Mr Feijóo gave to this Galaga School of Health Training. Now most courses are managed and reserved for executive positions, i.e. for managers designated to finger. Ladies and gentlemen, it is true that it is still the pharmaceutical industry that almost exclusively assumes information about therapeutic novelties, something that we understand that we have to move slowly. But it's also true that we cannot suddenly ban the existence of the delegates and the delegates of the medical visit. No, ladies and gentlemen, but I do – and I am very much looking for an honest collaboration with the pharmaceutical industry to advance health with all the independence that medical science needs. We hope, therefore, that our amendment will be taken into account, and if we do not, in any case, call for a point vote. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u202	For the group of the Nationalist Block Galego to Mrs. Prado Colors.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u203	Good morning. A public, universal and quality health we believe in the Galician Nationalist Block that is incompatible with the pursuit of converting health into business. It's compatible with the utmost concern and the commitment that day and day too, they're putting the different governments into turning that target into reality as quickly as possible, and favoring as business as possible. The failure to exercise the responsibilities of governments and public administrations in such fundamental matters as research, as fundamental as the formation of their own human resources, of their own professionals, not by chance, is not due to lack of the capacity of the public system to carry out these functions, it is not because of lack of resources, but because it is the result of a conscious decision. If the public authorities don't push, encourage and have as a priority to invest in proper research and R & D, we will depend on private research and depend on private training if the administration itself leaves its own responsibilities. Research and training that the pharmaceutical industry does not carry out by altruism, not by social interest, does not aim to contribute to better health, to better people's health, but rather that the interest of the pharmaceutical industry is clearly profit and business. It is clear from the initiative that the penetration of the pharmaceutical industry into health has formed a complex and powerful entrenchment of interests and conferences that interact continuously with the entire health sector. The industry funds the training of professionals with courses, congresses, travels, rapporteurs, lunches, all at zero cost. This is how the culture of sponsorship is generated, which clearly affects the autonomy of professionals and the rationality and independence of prescription. The pharmaceutical industry uses powerful mechanisms to impose its interests above the interests of citizenship: lobbyists, corporate pressure on governments, pressure on politicians, opinion leaders. Conflicts of interest, rotational doors are generated; cases that illustrate these issues are multiple and public, such as lobbies act. It was mentioned here how the interest and fundamental commitment at the moment in negotiations on the Free Trade Treaty, that treaty that wants to take a step far further in considering health as one more commodity, as an element of trade, where industries themselves declare an investment of more than 40 million euros to that objective of exerting pressure on those who have to make decisions. The rotational doors, indeed, of ministers, of advisers, of high office, which, after their cessation, have become fixed by pharmaceuticals. Or on the other hand, the pharmaceuticals themselves, the pharmaceutical industry itself, which places people of their total confidence in prominent decision-making places. Much of the scientific and medical societies are funded by the pharmaceutical industry. The European Medicines Agency itself is financed by more than 60% of funds from the pharmaceutical industry itself. It is clear that at least this raises doubts about the ability, and even will, to act independently. That the European Medicines Agency itself, surprisingly, is part of the European Union's Enterprise and Industry Commission, rather than being part of what the Committee on Health and Consumers would be, it seems clear what the objective is. Casualty? In the BNG we believe that no, that better what he obeys is his own objective. Of course, the deprotection of the population against the power of the pharmaceutical industry is very worrying. BNG is very concerned that there is no longer any responsibility on the part of the public authorities so that then the pharmaceutical industry had the pan for the mango and it is the one that decides how, when, at what price, how to distribute and how much to pay for the drugs. And, of course, the interests of the pharmaceutical industry and the people don't match, we're convinced in the BNG. We are convinced that it is necessary to regulate, that such regulation is effective and that the interests of the pharmaceutical industry are not harmed by the interests of the majority of the population. It has to be compatible with a society that needs drugs to cure the health with which this need does not become the benefit and business at any price of that pharmaceutical industry. That is why we are going to support this initiative. I am sure the People's Party will not support it, but we believe it is important to reflect and debate at parliamentary headquarters on which are the owners of our health and, of course, the interests that endanger health, in this case, of the Greeks and the Greeks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u204	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. For the People's Parliamentary Group Mr. Núñez Centeno.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u205	Thank you, President. Good morning. Ladies and gentlemen, after listening to them, I can only start by reading an article, Medical Writing October 25th: What's the value of Pharmaindustry? "His members criticize the poor influence of the employer in Health. Several members of the employer have expressed to Medical Drafting their dissatisfaction and discomfort with the poor results of the employer's initiatives on public administrations." No more comments. From the celebration of the National Psychiatry Congress, the Eighteenth Congress, the AGE Group brings to this plenary a non-law proposal with hardly justifiable arguments. They speak of the patronage of pharmaceutical companies, which has been, and will be an important milestone in holding such events and which is perfect and clearly regulated in the Code of Good Practices of the pharmaceutical industry, approved and signed by most of these companies. You're also talking about the price of Congress on your initiative, which was established by scientific society and by the organizing committee, and in which the Galician Union has no kind of intervention. Scientific societies mostly run by professionals in the public health system. And they make it extremely difficult to hold two satellite symposia organized by industry within the framework of the aforementioned congress. And I have to tell you that it wasn't two, that it was three, that two of them were the same day and at the same time. In the context of hundreds of scientific activities, we seem to be somewhat over-exaggerated by Members and Members of this group. The Congress program has 259 pages of all kinds of activities: conferences, round tables, workshops, communications, 41 symposia, posters and only three-and-a-half-hour activities, at a three-day event, but you look like a reason enough to demonize the congress. It then refers, in the text of your proposal, to former medical technical informers, formerly called medical visitors. These professionals, in their vast majority, are undergraduates or university graduates in different careers. They perform their informative work – as you say – at the various public health centers or hospitals, but also in private clinics and hospitals. Its mission is the reminder of the pharmaceutical products of its companies, as well as the presentation of pharmacological news, clinical trials and new indications of products already existing in the pharmacopoeia. Of course, in my personal experience and in the centers I know, the visit of these workers to consultations is carried out in hours that do not interfere with clinical practice, either before the consultation starts or after it is completed. It is clear that this group cannot accept its point 2, which asks to prohibit the pharmaceutical marketing activity carried out in public health centres and hospitals through those known as medical visitors. And not just because we think they have their role within the health system as news and progress informers, but because they're supposed to send unemployment to more than a thousand people with a job in the Autonomous Community of Galicia. I don't know what those professionals and their families will think of their proposal. Of course, if we agree that your work is done on schedules that do not interfere with the clinical activity of health professionals and prevent user and user harassment. Of course, we also agree that it is an irrevocable obligation of the Greek Government to safeguard the health of the Greeks and the Greeks, and that is, to separate the interests of large businesses and laboratories from the needs of the patients. Examples of the policies of the Feijóo Government and the PP governments are the drug catalog, the reference prices, the increase in the prescription of generics, the centralized purchase and a whole series of rules aimed at controlling pharmaceutical spending, making it possible to sustain our health system. I've already read you the medical essay. In short, and ending up, Madam President, we think that the Greek administration should collaborate in health congresses, although I can say that the Health Council does not bring a single euro to the conference organization. And it must collaborate on a double aspect: the training of its professionals and also on the important promotion of tourism and the economic return it represents to the city where a health congress is held, usually with a very high participation of professionals. In the case of the Santiago Psychiatry Congress, over 2,000 psychiatrists, psychologists, psychiatric nursing personnel and forensic doctors, with an estimated impact of more than one and a half million euros on the city's shops and hostels. I suppose you will have introduced this motion to the Town Hall of Santiago, because if Sergas and the University were collaborators, the Town Hall of Santiago was a special collaborator of this event. I don't know what Dr. Martiño Noriega will think about the matter – who, by the way, didn't turn to the opening or closing events – but the entrepreneurs and traders in this city won't agree with you or the mayor's position. Are you going to declare Santiago, Coruña and Ferrol cities free of medical congress? Mayors of their political colour will see what they do, whether or not they will support these events, and what they will think of citizenship if they don't cooperate. And on point 3, we think that the Fegas has been and has played a very important role in the training of health professionals. As the liver is extinguishing, the point is obsolete. It will be replaced by the Galician Agency for knowledge management. In any case, if you consult the 2015 Fegas Training Activity Guide, you will be able to check the number of courses and activities you have organized. With regard to the amendment of the Joint Group, to point out that patents have already been developing with public participation in the Galician Health Service since 2010, before, in fact, it was not done, since the arrival of the Government of the People's Party. And today there are more than 25 ongoing innovations involving Sergas. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u206	Group author of the non-law proposal. You have the word to Mrs. Solla. Give a voice to Mrs. Solla's chair.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u207	Thank you. First, thank you for the support of the Joint Group and the BNG. In the case of the amendment of the Joint Group, we are going to accept it, because even though with the initiative we were trying to propose specific themes for starting work, it is clear that since Alternative Left Galicia we have already worked on the subject of pharmacy on other occasions as well; among them, we are proposing the creation, through amendments in budgets, of a public laboratory. Amendments that were not only rejected by the People's Party, that they didn't even refer to them in the debate last year, and their lordships know that there are drugs that are already produced in public hospitals because they have no patent, and they know their lordships that we could start by producing generic drugs, but they have no interest in this subject at all. Obviously, the interesting thing is to continue favoring the business of Pharmaindustry. With regard to the PSdeg amendment, we're not going to accept it. We will accept that vote by points, but it is not that we want the assistance activity not to be disrupted, that of course, we consider that public workers, doctors, doctors, nursing personnel, should not be pressured by the pharmaceutical industry. We understand that if you want to be informed – it seems incredible to me that you have been called here to inform visitors – professionals have sufficient capacity to resort to studies and literature without having to be pressured by commercials from large multinational companies. The pharmacy is doing more business, Mr. Spokesman, than the arms trade or telecommunications itself around the world, and nine out of every ten pharmaceutical companies invest more precisely in marketing than in research. And we're not talking here about the existence of free trade, because I was talking about the interest that you have in approving this Free Trade Treaty and the 40 million that the big pharmaceutical industry is investing in to pressure the European Commission, which is very little free because it is precisely an oligopoly sector in which 25 companies control 50% of the market. But of course, if you are guided by some articles and that's your only reference, and what comes here is to establish a dialogue – the truth, rather ridiculous – about our approach to the pharmacy talking about employment – when you were concerned about the use of the municipalities that are governed by the Tide itself? – it shows that you have no argument whatsoever. It is clear that the People's Party is the only interest it has to continue to promote the involvement of business lobbyists in public health, which obviously live in budgeting. I understand that the Health Administration and the Public Administration...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u208	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u209	...which is the one that supports the pharmaceutical business with more reason than the one that supports your business, you should have criteria to limit your influence within the health system. But you're for the only thing you're doing is to facilitate the business of big companies at the expense of the public health of all Greeks and Greeks.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u210	Thank you very much, Mrs. Solla. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of Da María Soledad Soneira Tajes and two other Members, on the actions to be carried out in Galician Union to ensure the stay of the Galego Centre in Bos Aires as a hospital, cultural and social representative of the Galician citizenship resident in the Republic of Argentina, as well as its presence in the political representation bodies of OSPAIN
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u211	No amendments have been tabled to this non-law proposal. Mrs. Soneira has the floor to make it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u212	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. He said Arenal's conception that dignity is the respect a person has for himself, and whoever has it can't do anything that despises her in his eyes. In the same sense, sculptor Eduardo Chillida, at the worst moment of terrorist pressure in Euskadi, said a man must always have the level of dignity above the level of fear. This has to do with the debate on this initiative and with the political debate that has taken place in this house not long ago, because it has to be the fear that the dignity of the office will be questioned in the end and even the personal dignity of those with whom it is held. You will remember that here, in the last debate of the state of autonomy, the president of the Union was moved from that very atrial speaking of Galicia, of homeland, of principles, and I do not question the emotions or feelings. According to the dictionary, homeland is the native or adoptive land to which human beings feel connected by legal, historical or emotional bonds, and I would even say that emotional. And patriotism is the quality of the person who loves his country. Well, I, ladies and gentlemen, modestly want to call on the country to participate in this debate. In 1879 the first embryo from a Greek center came into existence in the Argentine Republic, and its interim directive commission writes in its founding letter: "The Greeks who live away from it" - referring to Galicia and the homeland - "and that for it we sigh, we want not to put an end to the rigours with which we are mistreated by the misfortune. The Greek center calls on its co-provincials, aspires that in the arms of recreation, if they mitigate the sorrows that ostracism generates. That one doesn't reach the beaches of this republic without finding instantly the family between us. And in the end, the anguish of Galicia is never indifferent to her bosom." This said – basically – by men, in many cases illiterate or semi-alphabet, that it was difficult for them to express the feeling in printed letters, in written letters. This is the country scattered throughout the world. Years later, on May 2, 1907, they met, and said to their foundational letter: "In Buenos Aires, capital of the Argentine Republic, on the two days of May 1907, a regular group of fellow enthusiasts, guided to whom more than a strong affection for the Galician region, agreed to establish a Galician centre in Buenos Aires, so that, like other congenres established in various American and European capitals, they can fill the needs that our collective is completely lacking, so they undertake to form themselves as protagonists in the early realization of this patriotic enterprise and sign this document as proof of their more acrysole patriotism." Ladies and gentlemen, some for years, some even because of the culture of our country, which in recent times has forgotten this important part of our history, perhaps they do not know it, but the Galician Center in Bos Aires was the patriotic response to loneliness, hopelessness, longing, the failure of body and soul health, inculturation and the defense of labour rights, because at the Galician Center the immigrants were literate, they were told their rights as citizens, they were given shelter, they were in love there, their families were in love, their families were born in their hospital, their wives were born and their children and there they were taught to keep their ties to their homeland. We can talk about all the wealth you have there, and we'd probably get short. There are recorded the voices of people in Galicia's history who are not in Galicia those voices, that heritage, preserved, and who, if they had said here what they said, would go into jail. There they published the texts in English, and they were published from the Centre Galego, with economic and technical support, texts that, if tried to publish here, would end up in jail. There they welcomed, even until the hour of their death, those who here we honor as fathers of the country, and yet, throughout history, up to this moment no president of the Union and no Government of the Union renounce this part of our history as important to our identity as any of the symbols we have in Galicia by such symbols of our identity. I also want to call here a Greek born in Argentina, linked to the Galego Center, which now writes in Spanish, and which has sent a letter to Mr. President of the Board from which I shall read the last paragraph: "Mr. President – by the way, the president did not object to it – as we all know and is clearly expressed in the reproduction and at the beginning of this letter of what the president of OSPAIN has said in due course – I tell you that it is OSPAIN – this social work was created to serve as an economic support to the Centre Gallego. Attending the diversion of such a goal is extremely painful for those who truly love the house who for over a century sheltered so many of our countrymen, providing them with health and emotional care. But you know that – I am quoting because this is the literal transcription of what appears not equivalent to the Official Gazette of the State of the Argentine Republic, and transcribes this person – "the new drafting of the aforementioned body of legislation of OSPAIN is based on the proposals submitted by the Government of Spain and the Council of Galicia – remain with this collection, whose approach consists essentially in the incorporation of people of the health insurance of the mutual Spanish immigrants and their descendants in Argentina, created in order to supplement the absence of the Galician Centre of Buenos Aires, cultural mutuality and social association, and for the purpose of electing the representatives of the Government of Spain and the United States of Galicia to occupy positions in the governing bodies and control of the social work." The quotes for the publication of the Official Gazette of Argentina are closed. And tell this person and end: "This represents a real disappointment, since we will never understand that our Government is asking to harm the Gallego Centre in Buenos Aires. Finally, Mr. Alberto Núñez Feijóo, I have been waiting for no help from his Administration for our Center, but I never imagined his foot to be one of those who tried to pin the stone on the greatest work of mutualism created by the Galician diaspora." End of the letter of this Greek citizen, of Spanish nationality, who is part of the Galego Center and who is a person of culture, a person who has a radio program that reaches the Galician community, in Greek and who broadcasts Galician news. This person is disappointed, but his parents, his family, those of the pre-teritian generation who have the center of Wales as an important part of their lives are not disappointed, they are terrified because no one dares so much – no Albor, no Fraga, no Laxe, no Touriño – and it was this president, who from here is excited about the country. But, ladies and gentlemen, the country is the people who want it, who feel it wherever they are; these are in Argentina and the president sold them, put a foot on them. [[Applause]] And to make sure, in addition, he had planned to travel to Argentina to give this felony a good visa – because he has no other name – but it turns out that he was then scared to see the reaction and sent Mr. Rueda, and Mr. Rueda came delighted to the eighth anniversary of OSPAIN to certify – I insist – a felony difficult to understand in a Galician president who is also called patriot. I'm not saying anymore.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u213	Thank you very much, Mrs. Soneira. Intervention of parliamentary groups. Joint Group, Mrs Iglesias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u214	Thank you, President. This GNP that we are debating in this plenary has already been discussed in the Committee on Culture on 22 October last month and rejected by the People's Party. But the relevance for us to the identity and history of the Bos Aires Galego Center makes it necessary and justifies the insistence of the PSdEG-PSOE. The Galego Center in Bos Aires was born from the initiative of a group of Welsh migrants inspired by the act to the memory of Pascual Veiga, author of Alborada Galaga, October 31, 1906, and arranged by an article by journalist Lence in the Spanish newspaper about the exciting tribute. That's why it's said that the Galego Center in Bos Aires is born of a song. There were times when the people of Greece emigrated massively to America under conditions that nothing has to do with the new migratory phenomenon that we are experiencing again in Galicia. Many of those emigrants, many and many, came with body and soul diseases, poor, disorientated and also illiterate. The spirit that inspired the promoters and creators of the Center was to create a place of welcome and support for the sisters of the earth. Over time, the Centre met the expectations it had created: it assisted in the resolution of administrative and bureaucratic procedures to which they arrived, delivered literacy courses, created a work and emigration office and, in short, provided medical assistance and health care. We will support with our vote an initiative aimed at preserving the hospital, cultural, social and identity heritage of the Centre Galego de Bos Aires. A center that, as already said and is known, has a heritage that contains the works of Welsh authors in exile, an important library and phonoteca, and a recognized hospital where our beloved Castelao has finished. With the government of the PP, the board decides to remove the Galician Centre of Management of OSPAIN to replace it with a private mutual, so it collects a resolution that the Argentine Government makes and was brought to the House by Mrs. Soneira – and that corrects me if I am wrong –. Two of the representatives of this mutual statement are: Alejandro Dobarro, president of the PP in Argentina and vice-president of OSPAIN, and Santiago Camba, current employment and social security adviser of the Embassy of Spain in Bos Aires. I think there's nothing else to say about the Cambalache that he made to Galician Union, with the government of the PP, with the centre of Bos Aires. These two people, with strong ties to the People's Party, are the main beneficiaries of the dark and suspicious operation. Policies that we are accustomed to by the government party according to the particular interests of our business. Thank you, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u215	Thank you very much. For the Galician Nationalist Block, Mrs. Paz Franco has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u216	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, new people who accompany us from the guest gallery. Since the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, we will vote in favour of this initiative of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Of course, in this whole of what we have talked about as much transparency, we would like to see that in this Parliament and in this country we could really know what has happened to the Galego Centre in Bos Aires, especially in terms of health care provision for Greek immigrants in Bos Aires in recent years. Because, in fact, during the past legislation, we have already been asked for explanations by the various opposition groups that have never been given to us in respect of three or four tapes that have occurred in relation to the Galician Centre and the health service: First, when he started to run the Galego Center – fundamentally derived from the health benefit – into a difficult economic situation when it was decided to create that entity, OSPAIN, which theoretically was born as a "social work of Spanish immigrants and their descendants in the Republic of Argentina" and which, if you look at its website, makes it a non-profit organization. But of course I, who are from Ourense and also know a non-profit foundation called the San Rosendo Foundation, I'm beginning to doubt which is the true encouragement of this OSPAIN organization. At that time, explanations were requested from the opposition groups on which were the prospects for future maintenance of the Centre Galego and the maintenance of health care from the Centre Galego hospital to migrants. Since then, when the Galician Board decided to participate in OSPAIN through the Galician Health Foundation, the decisions that were taken at that time in connection with this matter, such as the decision taken in 2009 to privatize the management of the Galician Centre hospital by company 3A Recoletas for a price of 37.2 million euros of canon... a company that, of course, in July 2010 has already renounced this management and then the Galician Health Foundation instructs Deloitte to conduct an audit of which we do not know exactly either, but it has cost a lot of public money and has never known in this Parliament what was the result of this audit. So what we can say almost six years ago with total roundness is three things: First of all, that the Galician Union was never interested in ensuring the future of the Galician Centre, mainly in regard to health benefits for immigrants. Secondly, as a result of this lack of interest, there was no planning by the Galician Board for the actions that had to be carried out both in order to financialize the Galician Centre as would be the participation of the Galician Union. Therefore, all the measurements that were taken must have been fruited by the improvisation and occurrence that existed at every moment. Finally, after six years, what is seen is that, in addition to improvisation and disinterest, there was a clear interest in privatizing this healthcare for immigrants and migrants in Argentina, mainly in Bos Aires. Because, indeed, from that moment on, several things happened: there was a judicial intervention in Argentina of the center of Wales; there was also a competition of creditors, also here, of the Galicia Health Foundation – which has not been properly explained to us as it entered into the contest of creditors, how many public moneys we end up burying there and, of course, with the law of transparency that will be approved, as of the things of the past we cannot ask for information, because surely we will never know – and, of course, the latest news – which also explained very well Mrs Soneira – that it is the Board of Galicia and the Spanish State that propose the release of OSPAIN from the center of Galicia, and that this leads directly to the fact that a mutual is the one that takes care, we believe that, of course, it ends by closing the circle of what was already albiscaked in 2009, which we are faced with a possible dismantling and privatization of this center. Of course we, like the Socialist Group, are betting because since the Government of the Galician Union emigration is worth us for something more than to make rhetoric from the rostrum of this Parliament and because it really takes care of the immigrants...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u217	Thank you very much, Mrs. Paz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u218	...about everything in a necessity as important as health care. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u219	Parliamentary Group of the Left-Galga Alternative, Mr Ron has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u220	Very good again to all and to all. This initiative, in fact, was dealt with in committee too, and there we said that the Galician Union is doing, logically, to apply its strategy of dismantling absolutely everything that our diaspora has put on its feet with great effort. Because you only use migrants with clear electoral ends, but don't worry about respecting their dignity. The effort of our diaspora to stand up the Galego Center in Bos Aires, to maintain our identity as a people, to defend our Greek language, to defend republican memory when the long night of stone was stretched here, all that was possible because our people's efforts allowed it. But the People's Party is afraid of wanting to dismantle all this, and it is because you clearly have an end. Yes, there's planning, Mrs. BNG's voicer, but it's a planning that doesn't want to defend the rights of the Greeks and the Greeks in Bos Aires, but only a planning and strategy that doesn't hide that you want to privatize what with the effort of so many Greeks and Greeks has set up. Because it's already said here: there's a different privatization that's been given since 2009; that is, it's also a privatization that's been paralysed, but it was then supposed that the Galician Board would put four or five times more money than the private company itself 3A Recoletas. Of course, it was already a good business for that private company and a bad business for public money, but logically that doesn't concern you, you're the only one who wants to do it is to dismantle our memory as a people. And there's September 2nd the Official Gazette of the Argentine Republic, where the agreement between the Government of the State and the Council of Galicia in which the people of the Galego Center of Bos Aires agree to move away from OSPAIN's management. It's clearly an anti-democratic journey, an interference, and it shows that what they're after is perhaps speculating, maybe selling, maybe crawling with that building set up by the effort of our Welsh and Welsh people. Let's remember that this building has 34,000 square meters – the Social Sanatorium – six plants, two basements, which can handle 370 patients internally, which has six surgeries and 60 external consultants. From a cultural point of view, there's the best of our memory: a library with more than 20,000 volumes, we have the Castelao Theatre and we have the Díaz Pardo Art Room. Of course, there were management problems, but problems also caused by you because they only wanted to go to Argentina or other Greek centers to try to have a voter with which to win electoral processes, but they never worried about managing, planning, structuring things well, and so they came to an intervention situation by Argentina's justice, this situation where you wash your hands and clearly have the strategy of privatizing the stand by the Greeks and the Greeks. In that process of privatization, of course, the Alternative Left Galega will not participate. We want to keep our memory as a people, we want them to keep themselves and respect the rights of the Greeks and the Greeks who are in the diaspora, because they deserve it. And, of course, our support for not succeeding what you have in your neoliberal roadmap, which is to absolutely get rid of our memory and our rights. That's why you don't count on the Alternative Left-Galga.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u221	Thank you, Mr. Ron. Popular Group, Mrs Prado del Río.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u222	Thank you very much, Madam President. Well, ladies and gentlemen, there are two ways of knowing that we are in elections: one, that elections are called, and another, that Mrs. Soneira is bringing immigration initiatives to the House. Because, of course, we've been here for a month now, Mrs Soneira, that you do your job, this one has brought it back to the Commission and now it's brought it back to plenary. I understand that you have to do merits in that decomposition PSOE, which are pulling all a little bit to see if Mr. Besteiro falls into the precipice of resignation, and you're in that career. But, well, we're going to talk about the initiative you bring to plenary. You hide information from the Chamber – and you know it – and you lie – and you know it – and then I'm going to tell the truth here. And the truth is, Mrs. Soneira, is that, in fact, the OSPAIN Social Work has started so that the children of Galicians go to the Galician Center and increase the number of partners, and you know they don't go because they're young people, because they have a working relationship and therefore they go to the social work and they don't go to OSPAIN. And so, OSPAIN wasn't the profitable Mr. Touriño and Mrs. Maria José Rubio when they were there in 2007, and you know it. You speak of the Galicia Health Foundation. The Galicia Health Foundation is made up of the Union and the Centre Galego, these are the two patterns of the foundation. Do you know how much the Galicia Health Foundation debt has been raised in the Bipartite? I'm telling you because Mrs. Peace says there's no transparency, I don't know if it was you who didn't inform the other side of the government when they were ruling together. But, look, the Galicia Health Foundation started with you, with the Bipartite, with a debt of 7 million euros and then, when you left the Government, you had 21 million euros of debt; that is, they tripled the debt in your mandate, Mrs. Soneira. Maybe she didn't give all the information to the Galician Nationalist Block and that's why Mrs. Paz comes here now to ask for transparency data, give them to you that I'm sure she knows them well. Look, do you know why, among other things? Because you, the Socialist Party, didn't pay the employee's social charges. That's an indignity, Mrs. Soneira, that's an indignity. You who come here filled your mouth with talking about employment, talking about the situation of the unemployed and talking about these things, you didn't pay for the social burdens of the employees, and that had to be paid, that had to be paid. Do you know who paid for it? Not you. Yes, the Galician Group of the People's Party, Mrs. Díaz, you're not in the debate and if you don't let him speak in your group, I'm not to blame. [[Mrs. Díaz Pérez speaks words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u223	Don't talk, please. Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u224	Tell them to let him talk. They agree, because Mrs. Soneira says the board doesn't put money and Mr. Ron says he's putting money but not putting enough, that there are others who put more. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] You too, man, if you'd let him talk, maybe he didn't talk from the scene and he was talking from here. Look, the Foundation's statutes oblige the Galician Centre to have negative results if in two consecutive years or in three alternates for five years, it has to leave the state. You know that, don't you, Mrs. Soneira? Say it here too. But, look, Mrs Iglesias said we'd fix it if she didn't tell the truth. Look, Mrs Iglesias – which is not, well, the truth is that the Galician Union does not throw OSPAIN from the Galician Center, not its boot. I'm going to read a news from Galicia outside of 2011, when Mr. Oldo, chairman of the Galician Centre directive, who is not suspected of being of the People's Party and you know it, Mrs. Soneira, right? Because you said that the other candidate was what was so close to the People's Party, did you find the Socialist Party closer to Mr. Old. For Mr. Vello, chairman of the Gallego Centre directive, says in 2011 – he read it in Spanish, because you also read something in Spanish and this is in Spanish – "With the end of the agreement with OSPAIN we have been freed from a lot of expenses." –2011, Mrs. Soneira – "Old stressed that the conclusion of this contract of OSPAIN and Centro Gallego did not mean a significant loss of partners for the institution: "Automatedly came out of the register 2,200 people belonging to the Celeste and Celeste plus plans, which were tremendously deficient for the Centre Gallego because their contributions were very low and represent less than the third part of the share paid by the partners. It was a letter that we had to get off top because in recent years it meant a very big economic downturn for the entity." Don't lie, ladies and gentlemen, you've thrown out the most needy people, the people who received non-contributory pensions, the people who didn't provide what they thought they were going to contribute, and who needed more powerful partners, Mrs. Soneira. You have thrown out of social protection 2,200 people with a lot of needs, you don't blame the Galician Union, you have proof here, Mr. Oldo – who is close to the Socialist Party and you know – that's what these words said, the People's Party didn't say...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u225	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u226	...and you know it wasn't Galician. Look, OSPAIN doesn't receive funds from the board, and you know it, your balances are public. You ask at the point three audit your accounts, those accounts are public and are also audited by the Argentine Government. With all this, with which you know and do not count in this rostrum, abandon, Your Honor, the ceremony of confusion...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u227	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u228	...and respond to those letters that sent him with the truth and stop acting like an orna patriot. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u229	Thank you very much. Parliamentary group which is the author of the non-law proposal, has the floor of Mrs. Soneira Tajes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u230	Thank you, Madam President. I want to start by thanking the position of the opposition groups. I want to congratulate Mrs Paula first because she has already done enough merit to go to the Senate – if the electors, of course – you, who also know me and know that there are certain issues with which here, because, well, sometimes we have to play a certain role, you know that there are Members on certain issues, among those you find, – and I don't talk about this in particular – who don't play any role, who live it, who feel it. I'm going to tell you one thing, first of all, to let you know. And for all of your lordships, OSPAIN comes to be the equivalent of a health company in Spain – you can imagine, I know, as well as the best known, Mapfre – who hires policies with citizens and then hires medical services with those hospitals – as can be The Rosaleda or any of these we know here – who provide you with the best service. And what did OSPAIN do with the Galego Center in Bos Aires despite its creation precisely to give it cover? The Galego Center sent the old people with lifelong pathologies – and, moreover, at the price they put them – and that they were not partners, because the partners of the Galego Center... You misinformed Mr. Santiago Camba and Mr. Dobarro because they're the other thing, ensuring a vital position at the OSPAIN Board of Directors, do you understand? Because with the Argentine law and how they made the change, tomorrow the president of the board is another and he can't change them, you know? Of course they didn't tell him. Mr. Santiago Camba's been a little scattered lately through Bos Aires, you're something else, you understand? You need to secure a little place there, okay? So what does the Galician Center say? You don't send me patients, and in addition to this price, you also send me those who are twenty years old and who pay more, who are sending them to the Italian hospital. Well, let me, Paula, tell you that I know a little bit more than you do. [[Mr Prado del Río speaks words that are not perceived.]] I'm telling the truth and nothing but the truth, so that we can make it clear. [[Mr Prado del Río speaks words that are not perceived.]] Secondly, it is not true that Mr Feijóo and the Galician Union had no interest in the Galician Centre. [[Murmurs.]] The headline of the newspaper La Prensa, of Bos Aires, while Feijóo was there to say that he felt this thing: "The president of the Galician Union commits a millionaire aid to the hospital of the Centre Gallego". Sure, when it's over and the relationship's broken? From there it is not seen, but if it is true, this is the sign of the President of the Union with the candidate, because there were democratic elections in the center of Wales – that this is a weapon of mass destruction, the polls! – and it turns out that the candidate who leads from appendice to Feijóo loses; at that moment...,
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u231	Finish it, Mrs. Soneira, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u232	...Mr. Santiago Camba said, "The relationship is over." [[Murmurs.]] And by the way, don't confuse the Galicia Health Foundation with OSPAIN and nothing like that. The Galicia Health Foundation is dissolved, not the goal in this circus, and also dissolves it unilaterally and not by calling the president of the Galician Center who was the partner, the democratically elected, but by calling the other person who was there because it seems to be closer to President Feijóo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u233	Thank you very much, Mrs. Soneira.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u234	Look, salon patriotism, not Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u235	Thank you very much. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Mr Daniel Rodas Chapela, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece to ensure the survival of the activity and the maintenance of the employment of the fleet of the fence
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u236	This motion for a non-legislative amendment was tabled by the Joint Parliamentary Group and the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u237	You have the floor to formulate the proposal, Mr. Rhodes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u238	Good morning, ladies. We also welcome the shipowners of the siege fleet who are accompanying us today and who will have the opportunity to attend this debate. Shipowners and sailors who have been camping in front of San Caetano for 23 days, claiming that the Greek Government is ruining them and forcing them to engage in illegal activity. And it's not for 32 days, but they've been complaining for two years that the People's Party, once again, betrays them and collaborates with the criteria imposed from Brussels and Madrid, which are nothing more than forcing our fleet to be wasted. They have since 2013 with the agreement adopted on 20 December, which basically establishes a division based on a supposed historical rights, which allows for the distribution in the case of the yard, which establishes 70% of the alleged historical rights and 30% of the socio-economic criteria. Which means 153 Greek ships account for 25 of the total quota, while 59 Basque ships correspond to 50% of the total. Or that in the continent arts those ships that are of small characteristics, for a Greek boat fishing next to a Basque boat of the same conditions it turns out that for every kilo of yard that fishes a Greek boat, a Basque boat can fish nothing more and nothing less than four kilos. Or that in the case of the jury, the main species of our siege, if we continue to admit that division between the Atlantic and the Cantabrian, as if Galicia was not a single country, or it is agreed that the gulf of Cadiz in the jury increased its participation from 10% to 30% of the total quota. The second problem is the individual division they're imposing, which means dividing and confronting the fleet; for it's intolerable, totally intolerable, that in the VIIIc 73 Aggerga ships that share their quotas have 1,400 tons, while 28 individual management ships have 1,500 tons. Two main species, he said, the garden and the jury, that when applying the individual division, they condemn most of the fleet to a few irritant quotas. There are ships in our country with 15,000 kilograms of garden and 20,000 or 30,000 kilograms of interest; when two years ago they could fish 7,000 and 6,000 kilograms every day. This is the reality, while other ships of similar characteristics have more than 100,000 kilograms that can fish. Tell me, gentlemen, how you can survive and keep families with a fishing right of 15,000 kilos. How can those seven or eight people who are part of the crew survive? To this drama, ladies and gentlemen, we must add the loss of the right to be able to catch a mouth in the IXa. They were deceived by the former Secretary General of Fisheries and now we are equal to 1.14%, that is, of the 4,168 tonnes that corresponded this year, Galicia corresponds to the poverty of 56 tons. But we must also denounce the application of the norm of sardine management, where the criterion of historical captures is again used: 70% for Portugal and 30% for the Spanish State. And what day today we cannot fish sardine, while other fleets unpunished accumulate rights and fish all they can. This is the drama, who has the most regulated, who has decided to fish for one day less, who has decided to lower the daily amounts of catches by establishing biological stops and who is most affected? The governments of the People's Party bring ruin to our country and dominate the most fished, to those who have not regulated, to those who have the largest ships, to those who sweep the sea, to the detriment of those who have made a better management; we fish less and set regulatory measures like the present three-day rest. This is the drama, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Feijóo and Rosa Quintana apply measures to destroy the Galician fleet and prevent our sailors from living with the dignity of their work. They're the ones who are canonizing our fleet, a fleet that develops regulatory measures and they're applying coercive measures, such as this individual and unfair division, or the supposed historical rights that force our fleet to abandon its activity and, above all, force the path of waste. Who can manage a boat in these conditions? This is the drama of a government and a president who doesn't care who promised support to win the election. I'll remind you of the meetings before you were president of the board. I remind you of the meals with the sector, and now that you need them to be ashamed of them and let them go. He used us, and when they have problems, he doesn't have a face. The fleet, like Galicia, needs to change this situation, needs to face this drama, it needs women and men committed to defending a Catalan quota and distributing it here in our country on equal terms; to defend in front of the state that a Greek ship is exactly equal to a Basque or a cantabrian; to demand that in the management criteria the least fished, the most regulated and the best management of the barn should be what has the greatest fishing right, and not the contrary. You must refuse to pay the fine for overfishing in 2009 and 2010, that you pay the one who caught it, not the Welsh fleet, who didn't catch it. We must defend a division depending on the number of vessels and employment, because we are the majority fleet and the most employment it generates. [[Applause]] Brussels must be called upon to nullify the so-called principle of relative stability and a new model based on responsible fishing, which generates a greater number of jobs and carries out a greater share of its activity, not the one imposed by the countries of the north, based on industrial fisheries. That's why it's been exactly what we've been claiming our fleet for two years: a fair deal for all of us, to keep employment and activity going. 23 days have been camped claiming dignity, being able to work with fair quotas so that they don't have to steal, fake or escape. Fair quotas, equal distribution for all and responsible fishing that allow them to live with dignity and fish in our own waters, as we came...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u239	It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u240	...doing all life. And here we have them in front of you, putting them in the way of this unanimous complaint from the sector. But if they do not agree to change the model, we are willing to chimple them on the edge, to throw this president [...], this advisor, this People's Party responsible for the sinking of our fleet. [[(By order of the President and in accordance with Rule 106(3) of the Rules of Procedure, this expression is withdrawn from the Journal of Sessions.)]] [[(By order of the President and in accordance with Rule 106(3) of the Rules of Procedure, this expression is withdrawn from the Journal of Sessions.)]] Today they have an opportunity here to vote in favour of this initiative and demand a division where the majority socio-economic criteria are put. They have a chance, take advantage of it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u241	Mr. Rhodes, I've told you that I'm not going to tolerate direct accusations or direct disqualifications, so I ask you to withdraw the charges from the advisor and the president. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Well, those expressions are withdrawn. Intervention of parliamentary groups. First of all, amending groups. Joint Group, Mrs. Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u242	Thank you, President. Greeting the members of the fleet of the siege, the shipowners present and expressing my solidarity with his fair struggle. The rounding fleet has been talking in this Parliament for more than a year by asking questions, questionings and the corresponding motions and non-law proposals. The amendments I have submitted seek to maintain the same argumental line, which I think is appropriate for the situation of the fleet in the siege and point out multiple causes, including the one in the debate. The spinal axes of the position I've been defending in this House are the following: First, the fleet problem is a problem of the entire fleet of the siege. And I say everything! Second, a TAC that's a misery. The TACs assigned to the Galician fleet in these last two years for species like garden or jure are a misery, and misery has a bad deal. The problem, therefore, is that the Government of the People's Party in the State and Galicia cannot lead to negotiations with the European Union. Third, the price of the sale. The problem with the price of the original fish is something that the Government of Wales should be ashamed of. Let me give you examples, a 14-kilometer large jure box doesn't go from an average price of 7 euros to a box. The small jury, which we know as chincho, has a maximum price of 4 euros per box. The yard between EUR 1.10 and EUR 0.60. The sardine does not pass from 25 euros to 14 kilograms, except on Saint John's Eve, but only one day a year. The price of the mouthpiece has fallen from the biological stops that have been established for fisheries recovery more than 50% in all sizes. The causes: the imports and that all the elaborate is the width of the Cantabria. And so we would continue with all species, but the problem is that this sector, like the dairy sector, is a primary sector which also directly attacks distribution, and that is why it requires concrete measures such as those proposed in my amendment. Fourth, the harassment of the fleet with the irrationality of control measures. The warning times for discharges over 10,000 kilos, the possibility on the same day of having 5 different administration inspections. Speaking of jokes, we're already talking in the sector of a receptionist square on board to attend the Civil Guard of the Sea, the board inspectors, state inspectors, labour inspectors... finally, living in the continuing threat of the infringement. Finally, we must defend the entire Greek fleet of the siege, because the problems of all are common. I will not fall into the confrontation of the parties, because the reality of the sector is the same, because the 40 ships that make individual exploitation do not have much left to them either. Who's to blame for the prices? What I'm sure is that the fleet of the fence doesn't have it. That's why the substitution amendment I present is trying to defend the Welsh fleet of the siege, not telling the People's Party that you listen, because we know you don't listen; not telling the People's Party to take account of the demands of the sector, because it's not been heedless of the sector for two years, but asking for specific things: how to claim a plan to increase fishing capacity that benefits the entire Galician fleet, promoting the right of all shipowners and sailors apart from it, ensuring greater economic profitability. That any system of distribution of TACs granted to the Spanish State, as regards the North Cantabrian and 8C and 9A zones, take into account the circumstances of dedication to different campaigns of the entire Greek fleet of the siege and not only of one part of it, taking into account the different species and times in which their activity develops. To submit to Parliament, by the Fisheries Council, within 15 days, reports on the situation of consumption in 2015 of all vessels in the Greek siege, both of vessels with individual management and of vessels with joint management. And to promote and make available to the Greek boroughs a system of withdrawal prices that ends with the scarce profitability of the fishery, as well as the low prices caused by exogenous causes of the sector, defending the interests of the Welsh fleet that it makes in the northern cantabria. Let's hope the amendment is accepted, because the People's Party will, as always, be out of their ranks and the fleet of the siege will continue to suffer the misery that is currently suffering. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u243	Thank you very much. Popular Group, Mr. Balseiro Orol.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u244	Thank you very much, Madam President. We also welcome the representatives who accompany us in the Greek fishing sector. And just as today we are accompanied by representatives of the Greek fishing sector, to put ourselves where we have to be from, and that is what I want to explain here today in the gallery of this Parliament. As all of your lordships know, and the representatives of the sector know much better than no one, in these alleys – of which we speak here today in the gallery of Parliament – used to practice Olympic fishing, i.e. without limit, until we exhaust our quota. I mean, there was no control, there was no management in these barns, which resulted in important sanctions for overfishing, whose consequences we are suffering today, and it is true that this Government and the Government of Madrid have improved them. And it's true that many Greek ships couldn't fish because when the target species reached Galician waters, the fishing opportunities were exhausted. It is true that with this Government we have improved the marketing system, driven by an agreement with the sector itself. The sector here today will remember that we have improved this, and all of this has changed it with more than obvious positive results. The data is public, the data, as its lords will understand, is neither invented by the Government of Galicia nor invented by the majority group of this House. We achieved exponential increases in the discharge numbers in the ports of Greece, which happened in 2014. As far as we've been here since 2015, the sector knows that, because it's here, only in the discharges made in Galicia do we charge 17% more than the average of the last two years. We went from a billing in Galicia from 30.8 million euros to 35.7 million euros. What we've been doing this year, and the sector knows because there's representatives here in the sector, we've been billing in more than eight months than in the whole year before. This is the data, but it's true that this doesn't mean we can't study improvement lines, it's just missing!The Government of Galicia and the majority group of this Parliament, which supports the Government's action, would only be lacking if I didn't want the best for our sailors, I didn't want the best for our fleet. And that doesn't mean that we can't study those lines of improvement, that we can't handle them, that we can't, of course we have to deal with the discomfort that exists in a part of the fleet of the Greek siege sector. Of course we do, as we're not going to have to! And for that it is necessary, ladies and gentlemen, a global solution, a global solution applied to the whole siege of Galicia, a global solution applied to the whole siege of Galicia, and to study well the consequences of what we want to change, of course yes! And on that line is the amendment that the People's Group tabled, which I'm going to tell you, I'm going to tell you, because I see them coming, and as I see them coming, I'm going to put them forward, that the People's Group has tabled an amendment because it wants today in this House that there is a consensus of all political forces. If that consensus is not possible, this amendment will be converted into a non-legislative proposal and we will bring it to the next debate in this Parliament, either in committee or in plenary, as we are. And it is also necessary, ladies and gentlemen, that we speak seriously and speak with rigour. Seriously when we talk about tie. There's a Greek siege, and the representatives of the sector know why they're here today, who practice a different management, who have similar quotas to the ships of Avenger and they're still working. And what we can't do here is tell the others what should be the model of insertion that each association should apply. Everyone, as you know, in the sector is older and there's no need to tell them that. Seriously, ladies and gentlemen, when we talk about immobilism. They tell you there's a lack of conversation. In the last fifteen months, eight meetings have been held with representatives of the Greek siege - and he knows that the agreements have been reached at the request of the sector itself - to get Europe to authorize 10% more quota from 2016 onwards. Fishing possibilities have been transferred from the area near France to the Cantabrian wharf, which has benefited the Galician fleet. And seriously, ladies and gentlemen, when we talk about quotas; seriously, when we talk about quotas. Cannot be shamelessly speaking about clippings on this topic. Since 2009 the quotas in the target species of the siege, the yard, the jury and the width have risen by 52%. And I'm telling you again, it's not data that the People's Party tells you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u245	Finish it, Mr. Balsairo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u246	...are the data they are. That's right, but you didn't tell those around. We agree, sirs in the siege, representatives of the sector, we agree that quotas are insufficient. This parliamentary group is tired of debating in this House, and what these opposition gentlemen didn't tell them is that a few days ago – at the plenary session of this Parliament, in the Commission – we brought a non-law proposal to increase quotas, which are necessary...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u247	Finish it, Mr. Balsairo, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u248	The People's Party is the first, do you know that the three opposition groups voted? On the contrary, don't be deceived. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u249	Thank you very much. Parliamentary Group of the Left Galician Alternative. Mr. Fajardo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u250	Good morning to all of you. It is sad for me to intervene after the day, possibly more regrettable than the last history of this Parliament, when a [...] president of a nation like this is capable of defending the indefensible and saying that it is not a problem of gender-based violence. [[(By order of the President and in accordance with Rule 106(3) of the Rules of Procedure, this expression is withdrawn from the Journal of Sessions.)]] I hope, though it will be difficult, that since the president marches to Madrid take him as far as possible with her, because from then on this country would be winning. I hope that doesn't mean that the current President of the House is replaced by Mr. Balsairo – who is also in the Bureau – because then he also ends up with the House, and at least lets some of us escape. Because Mr. Balsairo comes here today to say what he said is unworthy. To plan that the fishing rights of our fleet have increased exponentially, when it has 130 companies camped in front of the board, is it because they want to? are they for whimsical? Who's trying to fool you? And above all, as always, throwing balloons out and saying that ultimately the blame will be for the opposition, which did not vote a proposal in the commission. This opposition is not going to be an accomplice to the hypocrisy of the People's Party, who legislates and does everything he can against our sailors, and also the siege, and then tries to wash his face, to wash his face! Because I should explain to the Galician People's Party how it's possible that whenever we have to negotiate divisions, the Welsh fleet will always be damaged. If we have to negotiate divisions for the siege, we choose the historical criterion, which is the worst for our fleet. When you choose the wheel, you choose another one, which is also the worst for our fleet. I mean, always the worst for our fleet. And are they a bunch of useless people in the People's Party? I don't believe it, I don't believe it. The problem is that they defend other interests, and the interests that the People's Party defends are not those of our fleet or those of our sailors. They defend other interests that it's time for them to say what they are. How can it be that when you talk about quota shares in the Spanish state you always win Andalusia or the Basque Country?, how is it possible? Perhaps they have rulers responsible for their people and not like those here, who don't know what interests they defend, probably not those of the fleet. And from this group we've been saying a question, the People's Party is a clock bomb in our marine sector, a bomb that wants to end our sea, because it's thought and planned another way of how our sea is used. He wants to drive our people out of the sea, he's 1,500 people from the fence fleet who will be expelled by the policies of the People's Party, just like the thousands and thousands of seafarers who also worked in this country. Why? Because the People's Party wants to use our backs and our waters for another model of production, which is not aquaculture, which is not misleading; it does not confuse aquaculture with fish farming, which is what the People's Party wants, to close the circle and that big industries come to produce Galicia, and that's why our people in the sea are left. They explain, if not, how there's four times more investment in fish farming than fishing in budgets. They explain, if not, how they visited Canada, Norway and Japan last year, three multinationals, three companies, three places where the most important companies in this sector exist. What's the goal? The goal is that we end up in a situation like, for example, the sector is also [...]. Do you know which House is the country, the third country, which is most important to Europe? Chad, who has no sea. That's the goal of the People's Party, and that's what they want. So let's not be fooled, and we'll defend what this proposal puts, which is something fair, which is consistent, even, with the Community fisheries policy that violates the People's Party itself, because here we are in a problem of sharing and how PP is unable to press in Madrid for the distribution to be, at least, fair with our fleet. And we defend that there will have to be a division that means giving more jobs, and feeding more people, not accumulation of capital, which is what the current distribution of the People's Party does. And you say after that there is a group of shipowners in the siege of this country who, if they can manage and have results...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u251	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u252	But is that collective, which is just 20 of the 150's ships, accumulating 50% of the quota, but what is this person talking to us about? Are you trying to fool us? Are you kidding us? Honestly, I think in this country we have to make a decision, there's a bomb in the sea sector, we have to cut one of the two cables, or blue or purple to survive. Cut the blue, that's what you want to do with you all at once, cut the blue wire that tries to end our marine sector. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u253	Thank you very much, Mr. Fajardo. Mr. Fajardo, you know what's going on, that although I make a lot of effort not to tell you anything, it's impossible for me. I didn't say anything to him yesterday, but today I won't consent to either "trap" or anything. I have already told you here more than once that there are Members and Members who are democratically elected, and I will not tolerate any qualifications directed at anyone, nor will the President. So today you don't get rid of it, you have a call to order, and I take these expressions from you. [[Mr. Beiras Torrado quotes words that are not perceived.]] You weren't here and you don't know what Mr. Fajardo said. Well, you don't have the floor and I'm talking to Mr. Fajardo. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Would you like me to call you in order, Mr. Beers? Please sit down. [[Murmurs.]] [[Mr. Beiras Torrado pronounces words that are not perceived.]] You don't have the floor. You have a call to order, and please sit down. You have a call to order. Socialist Group. Mr. Val Alonso has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u254	Good morning to all of you. Also to the representatives of the field of siege that accompany us today. Well, today again we speak in the plenary session of the Galician Parliament...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u255	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u256	I'm in no hurry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u257	Excuse me a moment, Mr. Val. Excuse me a moment. Quiet, please. [[Interruptions.]] [[Murmurs.]] What's the matter, here we're like at school? Please do it! Mr. Val, continue.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u258	I'm in no hurry...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u259	No, but I do.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u260	He said we're talking again about the fence sector in the plenary session of the Parliament of Galicia once again, and there's a lot going on during this legislation about an unfairly treated or very ill-treated sector by the governments of the People's Party, both in the state and in the Council of Galicia. And about this the Socialist Parliamentary Group has already been alerting to the difficult situation that it has been going through for a long time, and at all that time if something hasn't changed it was the intransient position of the People's Party, clearly positioned from minute one. That is, more than two years ago, it's against promoting a change in the model of distribution; that is, against promoting a change in the model and breaking with the current model in force where historical fishing rights have a relative weight of 70%. A model that is producing, as has already been said here, serious differentiations within the own Galician fleet, where only twenty ships almost accumulate 50% of fishing opportunities. And even more serious are the differences with respect to the fleets of other autonomous communities. We have several examples of this, some of which have already been said here, we have less than 25% of the fishing opportunities of the Basque Country, which with 50 boats, that is, with 100 vessels less than Galicia, accumulates 50% of the fishing opportunities of this species. Or the mouthpiece itself in zone IXa, where the Greek ships have the poor amount of 1.14 % of the fishing opportunities, in front of the Andalusian ships, which account for 98.86 % of the fishing opportunities. In front of all this, the People's Party, in two and a half years, has done absolutely nothing. He remained impassable, no matter that almost 80% of the Welsh fleet had no options of profitability, and no matter what they manifested themselves, that they had been camped in front of San Caetano for 23 days, and that they had to dock at the port to their vessels since mid-October, when it was still more than two months before the end of the year. Even the counselor himself agreed that Minister Tejerina would tell the affected that they were camped in front of San Caetano that they were there well, that they were tied up in the port, because during this year they had already earned enough. The truth is, it's outrageous, Mr. Balsairo. Or also that the Secretary General of the Sea himself, now Director of Fisheries, Mr. Maneiro, accused them of lack of professionalism and mismanagement. See to believe! Indeed, it is regrettable what these public representatives of the People's Party say! And it is also regrettable that Mr Balsairo today, in Parliament's rostrum, blames the opposition to the situation that is going through the siege fleet, when they have been ruling in Madrid for four years and on the board of Galicia for seven years. And what is most serious about all of this is what has happened in this Parliament today. Indeed, it is noted that we are in the electoral campaign. Today Mr Balsairo and the People's Group take one more step, after two years of immobilisation and not doing anything at all, to reject in Parliament all and each of the initiatives that the opposition groups have brought to this House to promote a change in the model of distribution, today Mr Balsairo says that, indeed, we must promote that change of model of sharing. That is to say, last Friday, the Madam Counsellor and the Secretary General for Fisheries of the Ministry were gathered together with the representatives of the sector and they did not make any progress beyond a quota exchange, which is a patch and which is useless, and to tell them that they will sit at the end of the year, without making absolutely any progress on whether this change will be promoted, and today Mr Balsairo comes here to tell the representatives of the sector that they will not be and that they will promote that change; then, I say, two and a half years of rejection in this House, in the Commission and in the plenary of Parliament, many initiatives that have just promoted that. The truth is that one sometimes feels ashamed, ashamed of how the People's Party tries to manipulate a sector in which more than 1,200 people are affected. And what I ask you, Mr. Balsairo, is a little respect and dignity to defend a sector that is vital for the economy of Galicia, a sector that gives jobs to many people. What I ask you to do is that, when you come to Parliament's gallery, you stop doing theatre, and that if you really want to solve the problem in the search sector, what you have to do is first to sit next to the German Government and take your claims right where you have to go, that place where the fishing opportunities are distributed, which is in the Ministry's General Fisheries Secretariat. The rest, the theater that's useless. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u261	Thank you, Mr. Val. Parliamentary group which is the author of the non-legislation proposal. Mr. Rodas Chapel has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u262	Obviously, we're not going to accept any of the amendments. The first one, because it brings absolutely nothing and all it does is scatter the problem. And the second, because it's shameful that the People's Party, again, tries to fool the sector again. This time he comes with a lot of literature, but at the bottom of it, all he's trying to do is do a study to see the possibilities of a new division. They don't seem to remember that they've been seven years, seven years with the same advisor!, thirty years ruling this country!, and they still have to account? But then they're real useless, they're absolutely not worth anything! Because if at this point you have to study what are the best conditions for negotiating fishing quotas for Galicia...! [[Applause]] Please! Let's get paid and let's go, man, and let's get another one to the place! Because then, of course, the fleet is going to peak! How come you're not going to pick up with these patterns? Please! [[Murmurs.]] But then it's absolutely false. There are two problems. The first problem is a country problem. The quota is Galician, not from the shipowners, and this country must distribute the quota according to its needs. It can't be that, for example, in places about fish and that here we have the fleet totally tied up. And the second problem is also of a political nature, which is how we deal with the division. It's from the stupid genre that you use in the distributions the criteria that most prejudice you, that's what happens, for example, in the yard. And you say well, we've increased sales. But how could we not increase sales? Before we could catch the garden we had to go to the Basque Country, and now we're clear! We don't need to go to the Basque Country. We wait for the fish to come here, fish it, and sell it here. Come on, we have to applaud them for the great management they've done! Really, management is a purely depurpose. First of all, because they don't have the ability to manage the Galician quota, and all they do is divide and confront the sector, which is what they're doing is 120 on one side and 30 on the other. Then, secondly, they are unable to defend. But neither in front of Madrid nor in front of Portugal nor in front of any place, give us poles up, down and in the middle! The only thing they do is literature or, at most, propaganda, and that's the result of the odds that you've had every year. Look, actually, in the jury this year we have a great improvement, we've increased by 27%, which is the same thing we lost last year. In the sardine, because you've made 19,000 tons for everyone, you're going to give 1,600 tons, which the state corresponds to 480. And in the mouth, the ridiculous 56 tons. That's his great management.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u263	Thank you very much, Mr. Rhodes. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Alternative Glaga de Left, at the initiative of Da Yolanda Díaz Pérez and Da Eva Solla Fernández, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece and the demands to be made to the central government in relation to the destruction of indefinite employment reflecting the surveys of EPA
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u264	This motion for a non-law amendment by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia was tabled.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u265	You have the floor, to formulate the non-law proposition, Mrs. Yolanda Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u266	Madam President, it would be good if I had a little bit of the plenary and called the president of the Galician Union, because now we're going to talk about what concerns him most in the whole country, which are the stops and the stops. I'm absolutely serious about this. I'd like you to be here because, after the lesson you've shown us in the morning, in which it seems that the violation of fundamental rights in which it reaches half the population – which we are women – does not matter, because it would be very good for you now to listen to what we have to say about the stops and the stops. But I also want to take some of this time to reflect on what Mr. Feijóo did in the morning. What Mr. Feijó did in the morning with his statements was to generate even more violence against the women of this country, in case that violence wasn't enough. It is true that he did it with the complicity of the men on the bench of the People's Party, but the most serious – you will allow me, I am feminist – of the women of the People's Party, who applauded the barbarity that he was saying his boss in line.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u267	Mrs. Díaz, please join us.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u268	Yes, Madam President, everybody here... No, Madam President, you had the opportunity to tell Mr. President that the matter had been settled...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u269	I'm sorry, I'm sorry,
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u270	...and he didn't tell her. And as I'm going to talk about economic violence of stopped women, I'm going to take the time I want, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u271	No, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u272	Yes, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u273	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u274	Just like the absent president.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u275	Mrs. Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u276	No, Madam President, I'll finish my speech.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u277	I think it's very nice, but he has a second call to the issue and he doesn't want to have to take his microphone off.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u278	If you will, I am expelled from the plenary, but I am today, like my comrades and the women of this country, and the allies we have on this bench, men, we feel hurt, Madam President, thank you! That's why we abandoned the hemicycle, Madam President. Because you have allowed them to do with us whatever it is, Madam President. [[Applause]] So I'm going to finish giving data, that data that you don't seem to know and that you just published the European Union, Madam President. Look, one third, one out of three European women, we suffer sexual assault and violence by men; women over the age of 15. I'll give you more information, Madam President. Those things that don't matter to the People's Party and much less to Mr. Baltar. 42% of pregnant women are sexually assaulted. That's a little thing. If I were men, as I said in the morning, I would stop the country! But let's continue with data, Madam President. Every eight hours in the Spanish state there is sexual assault. This is the reality. They're not numbers, they're realities. We are women, we are human beings, and we would like this president, in the face of that barbarity of the absent president of the Council of Galicia, to defend dignity. We didn't have that kind of luck, Madam President. We didn't have that kind of luck.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u279	No, and he has a second call to the question.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u280	Well, very well, Madam President. I'm very proud of you, very proud!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u281	The next one I take the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u282	I don't want my daughter to live this barbarity. They're going to throw us into poverty, but also because they're macho, of course! They're gonna throw us out for that. [[Murmurs.]] Having said what, and talking about violence, we're going to talk about those numbers that worry the People's Party so much about the stops and the stops. Let's talk about the last EPA, the third quarter of the third quarter of the EPA. Look, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, thanks to the management of the ineffable absentee – politically speaking – president of the Galician Union, since you rule, we have 117,200 people less occupied in Galicia. Since you rule, according to the third quarter of the EPA, we have 137,000 less full-time people. We have 32,000 underemployed people more – life chances! – and we have 97,000 less people affiliated to social security. And as you know, as you know – and Mr. Feijóo is also very concerned – we have 100,000 new people who have had to leave our country in exile because they have no future. As you know, the third trimester of the EPA is pointing out to us a data that we've been reporting Alternative Left Galeg since we've been here, and is that this is being produced which is called "the economy of slavery" and which is changing the social model that they've been concited. And exactly this last EPA tells us that jobs with indefinite contracts have been destroyed, exactly 18,900, while they are replaced by garbage contracts or precarious contracts or contracts that force us to become poor. The workers and the workers, those who care so much about the People's Party and the absent president, are being wounded in death. But we also have powerful data in Galicia, so powerful that only one in three people has social protection. Exactly, out of the 5 million people who are unemployed in the Spanish state as a whole, 3.7 are without any kind of protection. Of course, it's data, but we're talking about human beings. And of course, the question we can ask ourselves is whether this is avoidable, and of course it is avoidable! So in our initiative, in the resolution part, we ask for two things, two things we believe to be at the heart of the matter. And the point of the matter is to override the rules that allow us to replace quality work by precarious work. The rules that allow you to fire today are not almost free, but it's there. The rules that allow the payoff. The rules that have completely changed the face of labour law, and today we can say that collective bargaining does not exist. That's why in our initiative we asked for the derogation of two laws: a law made by the Socialist Party, Law 3/2012, of February 10th. We have to say that this rule has sparked a general strike by class unions. And also Law 10/2010, of June 16, in which, in fact, it ended up squandering the right to work as we have conceived in our country. But also the first, because these rules allow, for example, such dazzling things as the workers and the dismissed workers have to themselves, through the Fire, to suffer part of their dismissal. Things you'll see, which we never think we have in our country! That's why a general strike was sparked. Or even if collective agreements were useless because that clause – as you know – was incorporated into the so-called payoff clause. So let's actually go to the issue, and let's go, above all, to what it allows us to do today. We know the layoff is free. Now what you're trying to do is almost turn it into authentically free, and they're almost getting it. But we understand that to change this reality – as many voices are being asked from the left – there is nothing left but to derogate those two standards, to avoid the calvary that today is suffering from the working classes; and, no doubt, the massive impoverishment of the popular classes in our country. For our own sake, that's all. Madam President, I would like to be a woman, especially because you also send messages to society, which in the morning was high and, of course, a message of dignity was sent to this country and, above all, to the men who are attacking women, so that we felt at least with certain coverage. You weren't up to it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u283	Well, thank you very much, Mrs. Díaz. Intervention of parliamentary groups. [[Pause.]] Socialist Group. Mrs. Quintas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u284	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning. We're talking about unemployment again. There's nothing the People's Party was all happy because with the unemployment data it seemed to have increased employment. That had to do with, obviously – we all knew – these precarious jobs of July and August, with those jobs that start to be normal not only in the summer months, but they start to be normal in Galicia. But the latest data confronts reality, a reality we've seen in recent years: unemployment increases, social security membership decreases, recruitment is absolutely precarious. Moreover, that increase in unemployment is greater than in the Spanish State and that precariousness in Galicia is even greater; which leads to the number of young men and girls leaving Galicia and not even register in the unemployment offices. The number of contracts has been reduced, and the recruitments are absolutely precarious. This precariousness of the labour market is close to 93%. This so-called economic recovery is an economic recovery which can be in macro numbers, but which, of course, has absolutely nothing to do with and does not directly affect families and family economies. On the other hand, wage depreciation year after year drowns families and drowns people, but above all, it generates poverty in Galicia. The data from the active population survey, if we analyze them a little bit, they surprise us, because there are about 70,000 workers who are just receiving about 351 gross euros a month. Of course, that makes it possible to live with absolute difficulty and to place us practically at the threshold of poverty. Another group of important workers – 83,500 workers – throws a wage in the 700 euros. So both groups are not only at the threshold of poverty, but are under the threshold of poverty, and they add something more than 153,000 people. Twenty percent of the total workers in Greece suffer from work poverty, and this is something the Socialist Group does not say, says the International Labour Organization, which literally says that most Spanish workers "don't know what decent work is." And this, I say, doesn't tell the Socialist Group, that tells ILO. We have recently seen how President Feijóo made a change of advisors and introduced himself here and we don't know very well if a whole amendment to himself, if an investment speech. But what's clear is that policies don't change. They changed people, some people, but they didn't change employment policies. It is regrettable that Mr Feijóo, apart from appointing new advisors, from changing advisors and sharing... – which is in his competence, of course – does not have a little more sensitivity to the Greek men and women who are below the threshold of poverty, and especially that he does not have a little more sensitivity to people, specifically to women. What we're attending today morning, which Mr. President used to talk about jobs, when every Wednesday he's asked about employment and he talks to us about the employment of Andalusia, he tells us about the job I don't know where less about Galicia's job, which is his competence... it seems that for the People's Party, when a question is asked to the president, it's the president who asks the opposition. It was absolutely outrageous and shameful – I am an oransian – what happened today in this House. I...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u285	It's over, Mrs. Quintas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u286	...–I will finish – I just want to ask one question: what do President Feijóo owe you, who owes you the People's Party of Galicia, to the Baltars?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u287	Thank you very much, Mrs. Quintas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u288	What do the Baltars have in their notebooks for Mr. President to say what he said here today?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u289	Mrs. Quintas, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u290	In twenty-four hours Mr. President of Galicia and the PP...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u291	Mrs. Quintas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u292	...he didn't say "he has to explain"...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u293	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u294	...to remind us of Eva's apple.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u295	Thank you very much, Mrs. Quintas. It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u296	Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u297	Joint Group. Mrs. Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u298	Today we feel offended as citizens, as women and as workers. A day of real offense to the social majority of this country. But, speaking of employment, EPA's data, what they say is that the Government of the People's Party is totally incompetent and useless in favor of job creation, and much less if we start talking about quality employment. So Mr. Núñez Feijóo's data and his wonderful management left us in October 222,092 more unemployed people; 6,355 more than in September, when 2,500 jobs had already been lost. In total, in two months, Galicia has risen to 8,855 more unemployment. In addition, it has increased in all the regions of Galicia. It increased by 2.95 percent, compared to an average state of 2.01 percent, so if the state goes wrong, Galicia is still worse. The active population has declined since 2009 in 57,200 people; 143,000 jobs have been destroyed, 37,000 in the industry; long-term unemployment has increased from 45,000 to 154,000; only 20% of the unemployed and unemployed in Greece earn unemployment benefits; 51% do not have any official income; and 29% receive allowances for those who have exhausted the benefits, which in no case, of all whom I have appointed, exceed 426 euros a month. I'm glad you're coming, Industry Counsellor, because we're talking about those working conditions that you've been defending in the Commission and in this plenary many times. Official statistics show that about 200,000 unemployed people in Greece live with their family members or with care services for people at risk of exclusion. More than 62,000 people in Greece survive with 426 euros a month. In total, there are 106,539 beneficiaries and beneficiaries of benefits and subsidies; that is, 49% of the population of Galicia lives on subsidies. What a political achievement for these years of the People's Party's Government! Wage depreciation is fostered by job reform and the increase in part-time employment, which is a real shame. Data from the active population survey show that there are 70,000 workers on account of an annual salary of less than 5,000 euros; which, divided into fourteen payments, results in a monthly wage of 351 euros gross, below the minimum wage. There are also 83,500 employees with a salary that doesn't reach 700 euros. In total, 153,000 people in Galicia survive under the poverty line; 31% have a payroll that doesn't reach the 950 euros gross; that is, 1 out of every 3 people working in Galicia does not reach the millionaire. The most determining factor for low wages is part-time employment, and 100,000 Greeks work part-time because they don't find a full-time job. 92 percent of the people with lower wages work part-time, and most of them are women, and they have to add the wage gap to them. Precautionary work focuses, above all, on the sectors of employees and household workers, in the inn, in commerce and in the cleaning and surveillance services...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u299	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u300	...which represents 62%; just the sectors where the Union is based on the Greek economy. Therefore – it is over – to make allusion to that as the population of Galicia drops, the population of Greece grows in the diaspora, which has increased, and is now in 493,970 members; it has grown in the last six years in 108,371 people. I mean, the only action they've done so far was to help destroy jobs and impoverish the working class in Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u301	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u302	They change their policies, and they start to foster active policies instead of looking at the air. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u303	Thank you. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. You have the floor to Mrs. Prado Cores.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u304	It's obvious that in politics it's not all, and it's clear that trying to derive the spotlights does not always work. The People's Party believes it can always, under lots of propaganda and distortion of reality, hide its real face. He stood here today in evidence that he didn't, that they spontaneously had their real priorities. Unfortunately, I don't know if Nuñez Feijóo is concerned about unemployment in Galicia. Of course, taking a job doesn't take care of it. Because the two main problems that continue to have the Galician society, the Greeks and the Greeks, continue to be unemployment and emigration, as much as the declarations of the People's Party, starting with Nuñez Feijóo, are a real spook. It's a real spooky thing that thousands of men and women in our country face a reality, and listening to these statements only increases this discredit in their political representatives. Of course, the situation in Galicia of unemployment is not a biblical curse that happens because there is no more remedy, but it is a consequence of decisions made by governments that are at the service of interest, in most cases, to our realities here in Galicia. They are the result of a structural problem, of the role that the European Union and the Spanish State have given to Galicia, that role of periphery, that role of colony; and neither the governments of Madrid nor the People's Party in the Greek Government have done anything to change that situation. Economic decisions are responsible, and successive labour reforms that have been taken in the Spanish Government over the past thirty years, either by the Socialist Party or by the People's Party, have always responded to the criterion of simplifying the labour market, simplifying contract formulas, facilitating temporality, facilitating redundancies, and always in the direction of giving employers more and more unilateral power to set working conditions in businesses and modifying them freely. The reality of the legacy of the Feijóo era, of the age of the People's Party since its return to the Government of Unity in 2009, of course it seems to nothing like that triumphalist reality, those triumphalist declarations, even much less. Since 2009, the population between 16 and 29 years of age has been reduced to Galicia much more than 11 points, which is the lower of the new population. The unemployed over 45 years of age have multiplied by four; that's the reality of the labor market in Galicia. The reality is that people are left every day in the bucket. There are still over 70,000 families with all their members on unemployment, and there are still over 30,000 homes in Galicia where none of their members work. They look like statistics, but they're family dramas, everyday dramas. Those dramas have names, they have faces, they have the faces of many children and children who live in those homes where none of their members work or where no income comes in at the end of the month. The reality is that in Galicia we still have the lowest wages in the Spanish state. The reality is that in Galicia people who charged 500 euros in 2008 now charge 400. The reality is that those who charge 900 now charge 800 and those who charge 1,100 now charge...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u305	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u306	...1000 euros. I mean, those milleurists, who seemed a contempt to charge a thousand euros, today is a real luxury. And the reality is that in Galicia, the women's salary gap, which we charge women, is the highest in the state, is the highest in the European Union. The reality is that in Galicia there are fewer busy people, and the reality is that in Galicia there is a loss of population; on the one hand, by aging, but on the other hand, also by the constant decline of the active population. The reality is that there's impoverishment of the working class, the reality is that there's a worse job, a worse job paid, worse working conditions, and there's less rights. That is the fruit of economic decisions and the fruit of these disastrous labour reforms that the BNG has asked for here on many occasions for its derogation.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u307	Thank you, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u308	Today we are going to support this initiative because when such issues are passed, they are not letters on paper, they are decisions that then have consequences. And the consequence is, after these work reforms...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u309	Thank you very much, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u310	...the labour market in Galicia is much worse and much more precarious.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u311	People's Group. Mr. Tellado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u312	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Díaz, this is the Galician Parliament. This isn't La Sexta Noche. I'm telling you about that over-acting. There is no doubt that employment is the priority of the Government of the People's Party of Galicia. Employment and equality between men and women. Those are our priorities, and that's what we do every day of the year. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Applause]] And speaking of the EPA, the EPA of the third quarter of 2015, what I can tell you, Mrs. Díaz, is that if we compare the data to the same quarter of the previous year, the only thing is that unemployment in Galicia has dropped by 13.7% in the past 12 months. That's the only reality you haven't talked about. Today there are 35,000 unemployed less than a year ago. You see everything wrong, it's all fatal, it's all negative, and I have to tell you that in the last year the number of homes where all your members are in a state of unemployment has been reduced to 16.7%. And I don't say it, tell EPA, and we're going to follow that trend, Mrs. Díaz. Youth unemployment has also been reduced in the last year to 7% in Galicia. Today 17,000 young people working a year ago were in a state of unemployment. If we look at unemployment since the beginning of this legislation, since December 2012, what I have to tell you is that today there are 63,000 people who were previously stopped and are working today. In short, we are on the path of recovery, and so they say not only unemployment data, but also gross domestic product, their evolution in 2015 and future prospects for 2016. Therefore, recovery is a verifiable and verifiable reality. You were talking about temporary contracts, of indefinite contracts. I have to tell you that according to EPA, 72.5 percent of the Greek employees have an indefinite contract; only 27.5% have temporary contracts. They were talking and criticizing labour reform. From the Socialist Party, too, they criticized Mr Zapatero's work reform. I have to tell you that it was precisely the job reform that allowed this recovery from the labour market. A work reform that enabled the templates to be flexible, which allowed them to make the days more flexible, to avoid dismissals and closures. A labour reform that allowed the number of ERE to be reduced by 42% from 2012 to 2014. A labour reform that allowed a 42% reduction in the number of ERE-affected workers in that period. This work reform that has been so disenfranchised by you has allowed unemployment in our country as a whole to be reduced by 350,000 people in the last year; to increase the number of people in social security to 530,000, who are working today and who a year ago are in a state of unemployment. So, Mrs. Díaz, that job reform that you so criticize doesn't, in any case, defend the free and free dismissal of what you were talking about, it's not true. And what I have to denounce is that double moral with regard to labour reform; double moral with the parties on the left. I'm sorry you guys kept that double speech, that speech of "do what I say, and not what I do." That's why let me read a number of press headlines about job reform and their behavior. Socialist Party. "The ERE of the PSOE will affect 180 workers." Nationalist Block Galego. A news from 2013. "BNG fires half its staff and leaves wages in 940 euros." Left United. This is August of this year, Mrs. Díaz. "One Left fires all its workers in Madrid and it's thirsty." So you practice doing what I say and not what I do. You use labour reform to fire your workers, and then you censor the government, who defends a job reform that has allowed employment. That's called cynicism and double morals, and we, of course, don't share their ideas. So I have to criticise them for using a job reform for their own benefit, denying that job reform to the rest of the workers as a tool to prevent the closure of businesses. You'd rather come here and ride circuses. Well, I have to say that you have very surprised me by the socialist amendment, Mrs. Quintas. A lot of surprise...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u313	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u314	...for the People's Party, because its proposal says, "Insulting the Galician Union to establish a strategy to combat unemployment agreed with the other administrations and with social and economic agents, which prioritizes long-term unemployed people and youth unemployment." Mrs. Quintas, what you are asking for is a social dialogue agreement signed by the Government of Galicia and social agents, employers, workers' committees and UXT on January 14, 2015. I understand that you are very busy with the purges of the Socialist Party...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u315	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u316	...in the province of Ourense and therefore they don't know what you've been asking for in your amendment for a year. That's the sad reality. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u317	Finish, Mr. Tellado. Quiet, please. [[Murmurs.]] Mr. Tellado, stop, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u318	Finally, we're going to continue working from the government...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u319	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u320	Yes, yes, you purge, you purge. You purge Mr. Besteiro in his province, you know that. [[Protests.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u321	Mr. Tellado, stop.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u322	Quiet. Finally, the Government of Galicia will continue to work to generate the conditions that allow them to create jobs, as has been done in recent years. And, of course, EPA proves that...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u323	Thank you very much, Mr. Tellado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u324	...we walk in the right direction. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u325	Group author of the non-law proposal. You have the word Mrs. Yolanda Díaz. Give Mrs. Díaz a voice, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u326	I feel sad, Mr. Tellado, honestly. You quoted Juan Diego Botto with the Mirador Room yesterday, and you really turned this into a theater. Frivolize as you have just done, Mr. Tellado, right now, with regard to data that are dramatic in this country, and after listening to the absent president, I would deserve a reprobation by the head of your group, Mr. Puy; a reprobation, Mr. Tellado. And I'll give you data, Mr. Tellado. Play whatever you want with the statistics. The data they give you is from the INE, it's from the INE and the EPA. Ever since you got here, they've been some job destroyers. They were destroyers, and I quote you again literally: read the Banco de España report, which I don't say. You know what the Banco de España says? That the goal of the People's Party's counter-reform was not to create jobs, it was to lower wages; euphemistically called "wage devaluation". You have to read a little, Mr. Tellado, a little bit. And look, Mr. Tellado, the dismissal in this country is free, it's always been free. What you're after is that it's free, it's almost done. And I'll tell you something else. If you want, I suppose you study something, I suppose you come here to study something, because Members and Members have an obligation to know something. You know, Mr. Tellado? You can review all labour law experts, and you can look at what they say about the latest work counter-reforms, Mr. Tellado. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Madam President, if you will, let him speak. I give you my time.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u327	Do the favor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u328	I'll give you my time back.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u329	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u330	I'll give you my time back. I'm a Democrat, Mr. Tellado, you're not. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Madam President, I'll give you time, if you like. I have no drawback. How he exercises the leadership of this House so equanimously, for at last.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u331	But you don't dialogue and please finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u332	But how about not dialogue, if I'm talking and you're interrupting this gentleman, Madam President? Please, man! [[Murmurs.]] But what is this?Oh, my God! Is that what it is? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Is that what it is? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] You're very nervous, Mrs. Red, you're very nervous, aren't you? Today the skating was strong. [[Murmurs.]] They're too nervous, too nervous. Very nervous. Because, finally... Ladran, then we ride. Mr. Tellado, I'm glad the new Employment Counsellor is here. The initiative has two parts. The first is that we vote to rectify the policies that you have been developing at this time, which are the cause of the situation we have today. That's what he's talking And the second, to derogate from the labour rules. If you want to be given texts by authors, by university professors, by right, read what they say about your work reform, Mr. Tellado. What they say about their job reform.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u333	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u334	So, Mr. Tellado, come here a little prepared, and don't worry...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u335	Finish it, Mrs. Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u336	...both for the misery of other political organizations. Yes, that's their level.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u337	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u338	That's your level.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u339	Quiet, please. Mr. Tellado!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u340	Mrs. Quintas, on our side, as you know, we would accept the amendment, which would help improve it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u341	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u342	And one last date. You're also frivolous with the amendment...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u343	Mrs. Díaz, stop it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u344	I'll finish if you leave me, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u345	It's just that it's been a long time.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u346	You're very busy... Can I talk about the amendment? Yeah? Mrs. Quintas speaks of the Youth Employment Plan. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I'll give you a date, Tellado, who doesn't know about these things. Look, 99% of the contracts you signed are training contracts. Shall I tell you what I am, Mr. Tellado?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u347	Thank you very much, Mrs. Díaz. # No time #
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u348	Can I tell you what I'm like? Misery, misery, Mr. Tellado. That's his model, misery. And thanks to the groups for their intervention. [[Applause]] Voting of non-legislative proposals
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u349	Thank you very much. We move on to the vote on non-legislative proposals. We started with the proposal of the Galician Socialists Parliamentary Group, at the initiative of Mrs Gallego Calvar, who said that he did not accept the amendment of the People's Group. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da María Carmen Gallego Calvar and six other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in relation to the investment of European funds for the construction of the Centre for the Interpretation of Natural Parks of Galicia, as well as the restoration and conservation of the area on the shore of the Mine in which it is located. [[Votation.]] [[Pause.]] The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. This proposal is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u350	We are voting on the proposal from the Galician People's Parliamentary Group on the initiative of Mr Dorado, who does not accept the amendments tabled. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. People of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr. Agustín Baamonde Díaz and seven other Members, on the opening of a public library of the State in the city of Vigo. [[Votation.]] [[Pause.]] The voting resulted in the following: votes in favour, 38; votes against, 24 with 9 abstentions. The voting is positive. This initiative is therefore approved.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u351	We are voting on the proposal from the Galician People's Parliamentary Group, at the initiative of Mrs Oubiña, which does not accept the amendments tabled. Voting of the motion for a non-law of the People's Party of Galicia, at the initiative of Da Rosa Oubiña Solla and seven other Members, on the elaboration by the Government of Greece of a new decree establishing the requirements and procedures for the recognition, modification and conditions of operation of the information centres to women. [[Votation.]] [[Pause.]] The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 38; votes against, 32; abstentions, 1. The voting is positive. This proposal is therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u352	We voted in favour of the Parliamentary Group of the Gaga de Left Alternative, on the initiative of Mrs Solla, who said that she accepted the amendment of the Joint Group and rejected the amendment of the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u353	I'm sorry, but I didn't have anything. That's why I went to vote... It's a proposal by the Parliamentary Group of the Gaga de Left Alternative... do you accept to put it to the vote by points? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Did we separate the three points or two anything else? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Let us first vote on point 1 and 3. In fact, the amendment of the Joint Group is accepted and the amendment of the Socialist Group is rejected, and, in turn, they call for a vote on points of the initiative. So, if you think about it, I don't care, we vote, firstly, points 1 and 3, and then otherwise point 2. Of course, with the amendment, in your case, accepted. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Points 1 and 3 and the amendment of the Joint Group. But I gave it of course. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Vote for the transactioned text of points 1 and 3 of the G.P. Non-Law Proposition. of the Alternative Galga de Left, at the initiative of Da Eva Solla Fernández and D. Ramón Vázquez Díaz, on the actions that must be carried out in Galicia to prevent the interference of the interests of the large pharmaceutical industries and laboratories in the public health of Galicia. [[Votation.]] [[Pause.]] The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. These points are therefore rejected. Vote for the transactioned text of point 2 of the G.P. Non-Law Proposition. of the Alternative Galga de Left, at the initiative of Da Eva Solla Fernández and D. Ramón Vázquez Díaz, on the actions that must be carried out in Galicia to prevent the interference of the interests of the large pharmaceutical industries and laboratories in the public health of Galicia. [[Votation.]] [[Pause.]] The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 16; against, 38; abstentions, 17. The result of the vote is negative. This proposal is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u354	We voted on the proposal by the Parliamentary Group on the Nationalist Block Galego at the initiative of Mrs Adán Villamarín, who said that he rejected all amendments and called for the joint vote on the initiative. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da María do Carme Adán Villamarín and Da María Montserrat Prado Cores, on the presentation by the Government of Galicia of a plan of sanitary uses for the tower of the old hospital of Vigo, as well as a proposal, in collaboration with the Town Hall, for the socio-economic revitalization of its surroundings. [[Votation.]] (Pause.) The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 16; against, 38; abstentions, 17. The result of the vote is negative. This proposal is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u355	We voted on the proposal by the Socialist Parliamentary Group, at the initiative of Mrs Tajes, to which no amendments have been tabled. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of Da María Soledad Soneira Tajes and two other Members, on the actions to be carried out in Galician Union to ensure the stay of the Galego Center in Bos Aires as a hospital, cultural and social representative of the Galician citizenship resident in the Argentine Republic, as well as its presence in the political representation bodies of OSPAIN. [[Votation.]] (Pause.) The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. This proposal is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u356	We voted in favour of the Parliamentary Group on the Galego Nationalist Block on the initiative of Mr Rodas Chapela, who said that he did not accept the amendments tabled. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Mr Daniel Rodas Chapela, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece to ensure the survival of the activity and the maintenance of the employment of the fleet of the siege. [[Votation.]] (Pause.) The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 37. The result of the vote is negative. This proposal is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u357	Finally, at the initiative of Mrs Díaz Pérez, I understand... I don't know if he finally said whether or not he accepted the socialist amendment, Mrs Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u358	As an addition.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u359	As an addition. They don't accept. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Good. So, if it seems to you, we are voting on the initiative of the Parliamentary Group of the Gaga de Left Alternative. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. of the Alternative Galga de Left, at the initiative of Da Yolanda Díaz Pérez and Da Eva Solla Fernández, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece and the demands to be made to the central government in relation to the destruction of indefinite employment that reflect the surveys of the EPA. [[Votation.]] (Pause.) The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 16; against, 38; abstentions, 17. The result of the vote is negative. This proposal is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u360	At the end of the vote, we are going to introduce the first of the appeals, as agreed, even if it is a little late, because that is how we agreed and made us wait. Da María Consuelo Martínez García, from G.P. Mixed on the socio-work situation in Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u361	We started with the Joint Parliamentary Group. Mrs. Martínez, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u362	I present this questioning about something very similar to what we have just tried now, in the last non-law proposal presented by AGE, which are the working conditions that are given in Galicia. Data from INE – as we have already said – reveal that in the Galician community only 36.4% of the population, that is, just over a third; in the state as a whole it is 38%. Before the start of the crisis, in 2007, the percentage of the population employed reached 44.5%, eight more points. Galicia now has 987,500 occupied and 2.7 million inhabitants. In terms of employment, he's been back a little over a decade. In Galicia there are more and more people who depend on the system, but it has diminished the number of people who contribute to their funding. According to the Social Security series, while in the Spanish state there are 1.8 contributors for each pensioner, in Galicia there are 1.2 contributors for each pensioner and downgrading. The EPA and INE data also show that the job being generated is of very low quality. Where before there was a full-time busy person, now there are two half-occupied people who often fail to complete the day. Nearly 200,000 unemployed people in Greece live in their families or in social services. More than 62,000 survive with 426 euros. I want to stop here because really, Counselor, and I ask you to answer me, do you think anyone can survive with 426 euros a month? Even if I don't have a family, who can live with 426 euros a month today? Data from the active population survey show that there are 70,000 workers on account of an annual salary of less than 5,000 euros – I said in the previous intervention – which gives, divided into 14 pay, 351 euros gross per month. People who are working, who go to a company, who fulfills a schedule, who does their job for 350 euros a month. How do you qualify for that, Counselor? Is that the job Mr. Tellado was bragging about now? Is that the job you're creating in Galicia and what the PP is getting from talking about the job you're creating in Galicia? 20% of workers and workers on the other hand suffer from work poverty. 92% of the lowest-wage earners have part-time contracts, and the wage gap between men and women is higher in Galicia than in the state. In the state it was 24%, while in Galicia it was 24.17%. Part-time recruitment, and the wage gap, condemn women to live in poverty, but today we see the contempt you feel for women, which I understand they continue to maintain these discriminations. The wage gap between men and women is unfair, unjustifiable and unacceptable, but its consequences accumulate throughout their professional life and result in a more significant gap in pensions, which is 39% lower than those of men. This reality of job insecurity also explains why social security earns taxpayers but is rising to less, and up to a third of all contracts signed in one month in Galicia have a duration of less than seven days. What a wonderful job you're creating! In Galicia, the increase in part-time employment was 26% between 2007 and 2013, of which 76% are women. In 2008, 75 percent of Galicia's contracts were full-time. In 2014, from 75% to 63%, which indicates that the job being destroyed is full-time employment. In the same year 2008, 24% of contracts signed were part-time, compared to 37% in 2014. As for the terms of contract, contracts of a temporary nature are becoming more and more important. Only 7.8% of the contracts made in 2014 in Galicia were full-time, only 7.8%! It doesn't help to improve this situation by disinteresting the Union for the quality of life of the working class and for women's rights, starting with the precarious employment imposed on the employees of the Government of Galicia, which comes to indecency in the case of Seaga staff, who only relies on the guarantees of the Staff Regulations, by denying them the application of the V Single Labour Convention of the Union. The combination of demographic crisis, job destruction for seven years and evolution towards the work model based on precarious work, is also exacerbating Galicia's dependence on the Social Security box. Treasury data show that in 2014 pension spending was 14.1% higher than before the crisis began. Meanwhile, the income generated by the Greek quotes in the same period is 17% less than before the economic recession began. The latest data on living conditions for households for the year 2013, published by the IGE during the month of June, show again that the gap between the Atlantic Galicia and the inner Galicia is growing. More than a third of families, 35.3%, depend on public benefits and not on income from work, six points more than before the crisis. The percentage of households living in public money is much higher in the provinces of Lugo and Ourense than in the provinces of Coruña and Pontevedra. The ESC's report, of what we have already talked about in this plenary and in the Commission, draws a dramatic situation that you constantly deny but that you cannot overlap with data or official reports, because, as we said in the previous non-legislative proposal, from the Banco de España, INE, the IGE, the ILO, from all national, state and international bodies, what you are saying is that what is happening in the Spanish State is a destruction of quality employment to create precarious jobs and that labour reform has only managed to reduce wages and further reduce redundancies. Now we just had the brilliant idea that the single contract is being launched, so that all workers and workers would be without rights. That's the way you're going, that's the way you're going, not the recovery of the working class or your rights. So I ask you some specific questions: what action is it taking to bring together the Union to improve the Greek wages? Have you taken any initiative?, have you called the employer?, have you called a meeting between trade unions, employers and administration to talk about how you can improve the Greek wages and the Greek recruitment? When does Junta intend to improve the precarious working and wage conditions of workers and public workers by returning them their rights? When are you planning to apply the V Single Workers' Convention, Seaga's staff? When will the Board promote an agreement between the employer and the unions to advance wage equality between men and women? Do you have any plans to recover and fix population in rural areas? What does Joina offer to the young people of Greece to establish their future in our country? Beyond the usual tax measures, such as those presented in these budgets, with reference to the reduction in IRPF taxes, which will punish the middle classes and favour those who earn the most and the great capital – that is what they are looking for with that reform – apart from these tax measures, do you have any political initiative to improve their birth rate and fight against the aging of the population? And, by the way, what future message does the Galician Union have for all long-term unemployed Welsh people who no longer receive any public benefit and live in poverty depending on welfare? I hope you answer each of these specific questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u363	Thank you very much, Mrs. Martínez. The Councilman of Economy, Employment and Industry, Mr. Francisco Conde López, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u364	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mrs Martínez, the truth is that I sincerely thank you for bringing this initiative here, because indeed the Government shares that desire to work to strengthen our productive fabric, our economic fabric and, of course, our social fabric. We've been doing this since we assumed the mandate of the Greeks to go out in 2008, we're renewing it in 2012 and, as you know, they've been and are very difficult times, we're managing the worst economic crisis in democratic history, but logically we're doing it with concrete measures and always looking for the general interest. However, Your Honor, I cannot share is your diagnosis, and I cannot share it, first of all, because the data and interpretations you have just made are, with all my respect, biased and little strict, but especially because even though the steps we have taken to improve are not enough, logically, as much as you are trying to resist it – and we have had the opportunity to check this morning – if we are on the path of recovery, if we are able to start a path of growth and, of course, we are in condition and we are working for it, so that that this economic recovery reaches all the homes. What we can't admit is that you just come here to generate confusion with data – I insist – and little strict just to create confusion. Simply this government, what it's doing is dealing with without the titubes and with all the resources that we have within our reach, but I'm going to give it a data, because often they want to make the comparison depending on the year, depending on the variable. Look, you forget – and you don't want to recognize it – that when they left this government 70,000 jobs were lost just in one year – they're only in one year – and of those 70,000, 38,000 in the industry sector. That's, Your Honor, your legacy; that's the legacy we had to manage, and it's very easy not to make reference to it. Look, Mrs. Martínez, the reality you want to deny is that many of the indicators that you have reflected in your intervention right now have a better situation than five years ago, and in some case also better than before the crisis. Just as they forget that in many cases Galicia's behavior was more favourable than in the whole state, and they do so, lordship – this morning was another example – mixing trends derived from the crisis with structural characteristics of our productive fabric. So, if you'll excuse me, I'll remind you of the reality you're obliving; that reality, in terms of employment, leads us to a situation where Galicia has been growing three consecutive quarters from the point of view of those who are busy in international terms. This third trimester, Your Honor, is the best quarter of growth we've ever seen in the year, with 21,700 more busy and 2.1% growth. But, Your Honor, I asked you for a little rigor and I ask you for a little rigor when you transfer data to this House, because what you can't do in this House is try to transfer a job rate calculated according to the criteria you consider appropriate. The employment rate is perfectly reflected in the EPA, and that employment rate has grown over the last year by more than one point, remaining at 44.08%. What you can't do in this House is try to transfer that employment rate is 36% simply because you're manipulating the numerator and the denominator -- you don't get one of the data. You know that the employment rate is calculated according to the active population, not the total population; you know that. And you know – and you shouldn't fool this House – that to calculate that 36% used the population and those occupied in the first quarter. We're on the third. So, Your Honor, I ask you a little rigor. Galicia's employment rate, according to EPA data, is 44.8%, and has grown by more than 1.11% in the last year. But, if you like, we're talking about part-time occupation. Your Honor, Galicia has a job structure where eight out of ten people have a full-time job, that's reality. And that 86% average exceeds even the Spanish average, which is below 85%. So you shouldn't try to confuse yourself by moving that every busy person is being replaced by two part-time people, because the data, Your Honor, just don't fit in. Regarding temporality, he knows perfectly well that employees with indefinite contracts represent 72.5% in Galicia, and he knows that this data in 2007 was 68%. We've improved in the worst years of the crisis at four points the workers with indefinite contract. And, in fact, you also hide it and don't want to mention that 2 out of every 3 employees in Galicia are undefined and full-time employment contracts. That's the reality of data in terms of temporality. You're telling me about work poverty, and you're trying to move a situation that isn't about reality; we first define what labour poverty is, because it's not a minor issue. Labour poverty knows that it is the one who suffers from people who have a job but who unfortunately live in income homes that are below 60 per cent of the average household income. Clearly, labour poverty is one of the objectives of this government, and it should be recognized in this House that the risk rate of poverty in our community is 15%, 7 points below the Spanish average. In fact, Galicia is the fourth community with the lowest rate of poverty, just behind the Basque Country, Navarre and Madrid. And he knows perfectly well that that poverty risk rate in Galicia has been downgraded when we compare it to the year 2009. In 2009, it was 20.6%, and now it's 5 points lower than 2015. So, Your Honor, we are working so that the recovery will reach everyone. You're telling me about the measures that this government is pushing, especially because it seems that you couldn't attend the presentation of the budgets of this board, and now I quietly transfer to it, indeed, which are the contents of the active employment policies, which I have already had occasion to reflect on in the Committee on Budgets, which you see you couldn't attend. You should know, therefore, that this government is going to allocate about EUR 445 million to employment promotion policies; that is, we have increased about 20% of the resources that the Government is going to improve the economic situation, the employment situation of our productive fabric, and we are doing so with very specific objectives, focusing on the long-term unemployed, those under the age of 30 and, of course, people at risk of exclusion. Those are our goals, there are those active employment policies, with concrete measures. He knows that last week we have managed that even the funds devoted to long-term unemployed with family burdens and that they do not receive any kind of benefit have increased to EUR 4 million during this year 2015, and we are, logically, focused on measures to stimulate youth employment, both in terms of dual training and incentives to recruit and improve self-employment, and we are developing the Youth Guarantee Programme, which is actually enabling young people to work to give them a way out and an opportunity from the point of view of work. And, as you know, we also continue to work to improve the inclusion of the most disadvantaged people, and so, Your Honor, the budget for inclusion will grow this year by more than 24%, up to 86 million euros – the 2016 budget – and we will continue, Your Honor, with the Plan of Combating Economic Inequity, making it easier for the most vulnerable families to have greater access to housing and energy, to drugs and also to school material. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u365	Thank you very much. Replica roll. Mrs. Martínez, for the Joint Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u366	Counselor, I recognize you for the courage you have to come here to say what you said. At least you don't lack courage! He would lack initiative, lack ideas, lack interest; now, value, of course, as they said in the Mili, if he is supposed, I give it by deed, that he has value. He says he doesn't share my diagnosis because it's biased, it's not strict and it creates confusion, well. And tell me about my legacy. I have never been in the Government, nor have I ever been militating in any organization that ruled; therefore, I do not know what legacy I have been able to leave to you and to the Greeks and to the Greeks, but I have taken part in all the general strikes against labour reforms, both of the Socialist Party and of the People's Party. Therefore, that legacy, of course, is not mine. He says we're in a position to get the recovery home. Well, we'll look at it because until now the homes haven't arrived. He says there's better data than five years ago. I just don't see them, but I don't see them, INE doesn't see them, IGE doesn't see them, Banco de España doesn't see them, Caritas doesn't see them... No one sees them, only you look at them, those of the People's Party. What is the best data? How can you deny that all the work being created is precarious? Most contracts do not reach the week of duration, 92.3% of new contracts are part-time contracts. You tell me about the contracts that were before, the contracts that were kept, the ones that were left of those that were before the crisis began. I'm telling you what you're now creating to relaunch the economy and to improve the world of work. Only precarious, temporary work is created. And you know what they're offering to youth? Contracts in training, but also in part-time. So you have to have a lot of courage to come here and tell us about the recovery, about what the government is doing. Whoever manipulates the data is you and manipulates them as they like. When they're interested, they talk about 2007, when they're interested, they're talking about 2012, and when they're interested, they're talking about the last century, or they're talking about Andalusia, so they don't give their face, and they don't answer the problems that Galicia and the Greeks and the Greeks have. So whoever manipulates the data is you. Job poverty. Counsellor, 70,000 Greeks and Greeks receive less than 5,000 euros a year gross salary. And you don't call that work precarious? What do you call that, earn less than 5,000 euros a year for a job that lends itself to a company? 200,000 people have to live in their families, they have no income. But what are you bragging about? What has improved since 2009 up here in relation to the world of work? The wage gap between men and women increases, and the part-time contract falls on women, and you don't do anything. He didn't give me a single measure that would take the Government of the People's Party to change this situation, you tell me about budgets. Which, by the way, I didn't go to the Budget Commission because I only have one body and I don't give to be everywhere. No, but I think it's pretty indecent that you're hiding behind the Budget Commission so as not to give an answer. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] It seems to me much more indecent than when it comes to employment issues you're not here...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u367	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u368	...nose it's what it should be, that you rule and I don't. So don't tell me about the money they're going to put on, because then they don't meet the budgets either and they don't spend the games they've got for employment, but the real policies, the real and concrete measures they're going to take from now on, if they're going to take any. Therefore, Counsellor, I regret all that you have just said, which means that the Government has no plan of improvement for the working world, for the working class, and I regret that the only thing they offer to young people is that they are autonomous or, if not – as the recently-established advisor to Social Policy – transnational mobility, that is, emigration. I'm so sorry for your intervention and your lack of interest in the working class and the women. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u369	Thank you very much. The Councilman of Economy, Employment and Industry, Mr. Francisco Conde, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u370	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mrs Martínez, I understand, by your words, that at least if you recognize that employment is being created, which for me – with all due respect – is a very important step forward. [[Murmurs.]] Tell me what I boast about value. Look, I don't brag about anything, I'm just trying to act with responsibility from the Government; logically, giving answers to the opposition's requests and logically also driving concrete measures that clearly this government has. And what surprises me is that you do not want to enter into the debate or active employment policies that promote this government or concrete policies towards long-term unemployed people or the specific policies that this government is developing. In any case, Your Honor, as usual, simply with grandiose phrases come here to move a chaotic situation from the labour situation and economic situation. You just didn't see the crisis – you didn't see it coming – they didn't know what to do when they could actually do anything more and now they don't want to recognize what the current situation is either. And concrete measures, indeed, in the interests of people, of long-term unemployed. We are making concrete measures aimed at guidance, training, work experience, aid for recruitment; concrete measures. Your Honor, this government is developing 88 specific programmes of active employment policies and has virtually activated 20 per cent of the programmes in Spain. So, if something is doing this government, it's having a proactive policy precisely to defend all the people who are looking for an opportunity to work. We do it with long-term employees, we do it with young people, we facilitate dual training, incentives for recruitment, programs... actually, I don't know what you have against self-employed people, I don't know; but we also understand that young people can have an opportunity to promote self-employment. And you know there's a specific program, that children under 30 have been involved in social security for a whole year, and there's already 730 young Greeks and girls who were able to accommodate this program. We have the Youth Guarantee Programme, with guidance technicians, with employment workers, and also the Board – and you know it, order of this same month of September – is assuming 100 percent of the salary cost of a young man hired for two years if the contract is indefinite; therefore, concrete measures also for Thursdays. Finally, Your Honor, this government is developing active employment policies to actually provide solutions. And I don't want to leave this questioning without making a reference to equality and that pay gap between men and women because it's a concern and an occupation of this government, actually, to reduce that gap. You could reflect here how women's wages are rising above men's wages, you don't want to pick it up. [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] And he also knows that Galicia – and I refer to official data – is the second community where those salaries are going up most. But, of course -- thank you -- if you allow me, it's insufficient; and as it is insufficient, we are favouring concrete measures both to promote women's employment and to promote gender equality, with positive discrimination in active employment policies, enhancing equality plans, calling for more collaboration on the part of the Commission for Equality of Women and Men in collective bargaining, of course also working with the Labour Inspectorate, and we will launch this Science and Women Plan, which I also had the opportunity to move in this way in the presentation of budgets. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] So, Your Honor, this government is developing concrete measures and, of course, this government is working so that, in fact, all those workers who are currently unemployed can have a chance. That is the vocation and that is the concern and occupation of this government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u371	Thank you very much, Counselor. We suspended the session until this afternoon at sixteen forty-five, five minus four. Thank you. [[The session is suspended at 3:30 p.m. and resumed at 4:40 p.m.]] Da María Carmen Acuña do Campo and two other G.P. Members. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the management of public health in the province of Ourense
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u372	To formulate the interpellation has the floor to Mrs. Acuña. Please, House services, the topic of megaphony. [[Madam Acuña do Campo speaks words that are not perceived.]] House services, please, the topic of megaphony. [[Pause.]] House services, please, megaphony.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u373	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, Counselor. Ourense's interest in the People's Party is very clear on this day's approach to Greek equality. Look, I don't know if you've already bought the firefighter's suit, which I recommended, but look, if you've got it, put on the suit and go to Ourense. Go to Ourense because health is also burning. I know you're clear about Vigo's health fire, but I don't know if you know it's also burning in Pontevedra, in Lugo, in Coruña, in Ferrol and in Ourense. But today it's about Ourense. Ourense, that province, Your Honor, that the People's Party, your party, is divided. It is divided between a Baltar, who from the deputation to rule as a feudal lord to the right of eternity, and the president himself, Mr Feijóo, who has reserved his sanity to give to his cousin, Mrs. Núñez, so that he manages it without anyone telling him anything. And what will be the outcome that Mrs. Núñez has set up in Ourense, the very first, as we affectionately know her there, that the CESM-Omega trade unions continue with the strike. They've been in October, they've been back yesterday, and they'll still be on the 17th and 29th of November. Folga, Counselor, who call textually for the loss of assistance, for the demobilization of the optional, for the attitude of the Management of contempt on the professionals and for the continuing promises that have not been fulfilled for the past six years. He undoes, Mr. Vázquez, who has already removed more than 19 cups of primary medicine in the province, not to mention those of nursing and pediatrics, who have also eliminated them. And I'm going to tell you an example that I've got very close, and it's a lot of news. At this very moment, in these days, they are suppressing in the health center of the boat a nursing square tomorrow morning and a pediatrician in the afternoon. Health centres committed and not built like the 20th century of the city, CAP health centres, which would have to be assumed by the local Covenant and which were not yet; difficult, Counsellor, to explain that the neighbors of Castro Caldelas, Trives or Viana have to keep the CAP with their taxes in which you pay attention to a whole region, difficult for you, that was mayor, right? Mrs. Núñez mismanaged health care, but she also managed with lies. In Ourense we remember very well what to improve the situation in Toén moved the patients to Piñor. But that's right, they were going to leave an internal medicine plant. Liar!, they didn't leave any internal medicine plant. They undressed one saint to wear another and cancelled precisely the socio-sanitary beds in the oldest province of Galicia. By the way, that lady doesn't consider it necessary to equip Ourenses with hierarchy, as if they had Lugo and Vigo. And now, I suppose to play games, it just eliminated psychogeria as well. But the children and the children, Counsellor, have no better, because to improve the attention of the children what he did was to suppress the pediatric surgery unit, alarming and angering the entire population, which he sees now he has to transfer the children and the children to operate to Vigo. Nor did the vexorresian sanity be saved, deteriorated as a result of the suppression of the boat's health area; so for a few days the neighborhoods and the neighborhoods went out there to protest for their hospital situation. Nor does the Verín hospital save him, where he was suppressed by the Power for greater glory of Mrs. Núñez. And, of course, we would like you to explain to us today why Mrs Núñez was given the European Innovation Plans. That, by the way, he's destroying them, I don't know if he's a cousin of Feijóo, but there people are wondering if that's also supposed to cost much more to manage those plans. By the way, at what point are those plans, Counselor? I remind you that the deadline for Innova and Hospital 2050 ends next month. I also think that the president shouldn't take his chest out for Baltar, as he did this morning, or for Innova, because for professionals and professionals, it's a big failure. Ask yourself before using a triumphal tone, ask for Connecta 72, for Security, for the consulting truck or for the surgical truck, more propriety, Mr. Counsellor, for the Syrian war than for the peat war we have in Ourense. He asks that the professionals of these millions and millions of Europeans who were fired at a time when we were cut to the gas in the U.S. public health. What do you think about surgery in the hospital for not having anesthesiologist or surgical material, while in the surgical truck they have even administrative staff. Look, no one understands there so much dispensation. The staff is very scarce, I don't know if you know it because of the cuts, but it's still less personal when they pull it out to supply the said surgical truck, because the professionals are the same; you didn't increase them. And those personnel shortages, as a result of cuts and massive and forced retirements, those certain deficiencies that will cause them to fail all those expensive inventions. Look, Security's only been running for 20 days, but everybody's been criticizing him, and they're saying loudly that they're going to have to eliminate him. Professionals consider it intolerable that on the screen of the waiting room the family will see their name attached to a patient's attention when they don't even know him. The screen is signed by the doctor when the patient arrives, not when he is taken care of. So tell me, counselor, whose responsibility will it be if something happens to that patient at that time, from Europe? Mrs. Eloine? About you? I can tell you that in the CHOU emergencies there they say textually that until a doctor actually sees a patient, if they want to put a name on the screen of the waiting room they put Eloine's. That's what they say there, Counselor. And, of course, they don't get tired of repeating that all that money would be much better meant to hire enough staff to care for patients in emergencies and in the internal medical service, too, Counsellor, fundamental service in a provincial hospital and which is totally destroyed. In addition, the Santa Maria Nai building falls on the sick and on the workers, while Mrs Núñez spends European money cheerfully on the smart walls of Hospital 2050. I don't know if this doesn't seem to waste you, from now on in Ourense it seems to us. Seeding that warehouse of patients who have assembled to solve the continuing collapse of emergencies. He threw out offices and made a warehouse where he put the sick so they wouldn't be thrown away by the corridors. Up to 28 sick people fit him in that warehouse, there you can hide them. But since it didn't increase personnel or material resources, the problem continues, it's only that you don't see now and the journalists in La Region can't take the pictures for the population to see them the next day in the corridors. Mismanagement, Mr. Counsellor, and also harmful heeling that has the disillusioned, demotivated professionals on strike at the total deterioration of the hospital and of all public health in the province. And for all this, for all that I have told you, we want to ask you today, Counselor, by setting as an example what happened this summer and that finally published all the press – by the way, both the German and the State – that in Ourense the patients were returning to the room from the unoperated surgery, on occasions for lack of personnel and others for lack of material, but always without operation. And, Counselor, I warn you that you don't answer us either with the excellent percentages of the surgeons, as Mrs. Eloine herself did, or answer us, as Mr. Campa did, blaming the patients. Tell us the truth and, above all, giving solutions to these problems that I will list; solutions, Mr. Counsellor, which should undoubtedly begin because you here announce to us today the cessation of Mrs. Eloína Núñez. For now, nothing more and thank you very much. I'm waiting for your answers.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u374	Thank you, Mrs. Acuña. Counsellor's response.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u375	President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Acuña, the truth is I don't know if you want me to answer her or tell her just what she told me. He told me at the end of his talk what he had to answer. So I'm going to try to tell the truth that there is in Ourense province, because, obviously, although it calls me a fireman, and that there's a lot of fire, and that everything is destroyed, I think there's a picture in negative; and obviously we can't say that everything is perfect, but recognizing the errors that there can be in a management of such a number of incidents, as we remember that it always has health, with 365 days and 24 hours a day, because it can happen. But, look, I'm surprised at the planning of this interpellation. And I say I'm surprised because part of a premise that I understand is not supported in any way: the fact that the state of Ourense's public health is, in your opinion, serious and that all these years of management of the People's Party on the board have failed to manage properly. I think the data says otherwise, because the data and the indicators are there, they are not subjective, they are objective, and they reflect a clear improvement since the period in which they ruled, by the way, their party. This is evidence of the excellence of the professional working capacity of the organizational structure of the integrated management of Ourense, Verín and Barco de Valdeorras, as well as of the good doing of their management team, the management team that has long experience in health, are some of these indicators of activity. On June 30 of this year, EOXI's half-surgery is expected to be 37.3 days, the second best of Sergas, and of course, well below the average of 64.8 days. The priorities we find in this EOXI, priority one, the urgent one, are waiting for 9.3 days. Again the second best system. In priority 2, i.e. preference, 45.8, below average, which was 50.6. If we talk about waiting for first sick consultations, the situation is very similar. Citizens of the EOXI of Ourense on June 30 wait 27.5 days, again the second best result among the 7 EOXI of the system, which is well below the average of 40.1 days. I repeat, Your Honor, that the data are powerful. The claim that public health in Ourense is serious seems, at least, very little solid if we evaluate data like the ones I just cited. It just doesn't hold. You also speak of a percentage of surgical suspensions. Of course, we regret the inconveniences that a suspension produces, both for the patient and for his close friends. But we need to take into account the very high complexity of surgical organization and remind you that the suspension of surgery is not a fact beyond the day-to-day management of any health service, including our own. The suspension is within the possibilities for different reasons, of course not all are attributable to the health organization, but to some other circumstance, as it can be from some last-minute incidence of the patient that cannot occur, because it has an infection or pathology that has occurred in the last few hours, and of course through an extension of previous intervention, which means that sometimes, like any circumstance, there may be complications that the surgeon must resolve before the new patient comes. Surgical suspension relationships are very rare in CHOU, but in both its number and its causes they are properly recorded, most of which are produced by patients' medical problems 25% of them. Pre-intervention programmings, as previously noted, 27 and patient assistance 14.4. It's a small lack, a small percentage of the missing or damaged material, which is also, logically, within the possibilities. In June 2015, the percentage of CHOU suspensions was 3.84%, the third lowest of the 14 public hospitals and hospitals in Galicia, and below, as I say, the average, which is 4.44. And if we want to get out anecdotes, we'll get out anecdotes. He talks about television in summer, he can talk about a lot of things, but the global figures of six months are the ones I've been commenting on right now. But it's not only a question of quantitative numbers, important qualitative improvements have also been introduced in the day-to-day management of the health of our citizens, and some of them are, for example, the rapid pathways of colon cancer, lung cancer, breast, larynx, bladder, prostate, lumbal, dementia and melanoma; pathologies all with high frequency and which, of course, is of interest to them before giving them a diagnosis to follow proper treatment. High-resolution consultations on cardiology, digestive, vascular surgery and urology; establishment of the urodynamic unit; expansion of the capacity of vascular surgery services; endovascular treatment of complex aortic pathology; creation of high-resolution hospital unit dependent on emergency services; implementation of the integrated assistance process of EPOC. Teleconsultations: cardiology, neurology, pneumology, internal medicine, vascular surgery, endocrine, radiology, nephrology, rheumatology and digestive; extension of the rehabilitation service portfolio with the introduction of the knee protocol and conservative treatment with electrostimulation; centralization at one point and citation of outpatient computer management consultations; care program for pluripathological and chronic patients between primary care and internal medicine; creation of the high-resolution outpatient cardiology unit by unifying outpatient consultations; provision of a latest generation surgery for neurosurgery with intraoperative tomography, microscope and browser. In the case of Barco, which you also cited, the opening of new specialties of neurology, digestive, endocrine, cardiology and rheumatology; the extension of the portfolio of digestive and endoscopy services; high cardiology and digestive resolution; teleconsultation in cardiology, digestive, neurology and ophthalmology; expansion of portfolio of urology surgical services; hospitalization at home, by course, one of the most interesting news from the point of view of both the patient's health and the comfort of his family; rapid pathways of colon cancer, lung, breast, larinx, bladder, prostate, lumbalgia, dementia, melanoma; implementation of the self-control program of anticoagulation; full pharmaceutical coverage in the socio-sanitary residences of the Barco health area by the pharmaceutical services of the Comarcal Hospital of Valdeorras. And also to say that the geographic level has reached all citizens in the province: in the Verin open new specialties of neurology, dixestive, cardiology and endocrine; high resolution of cardiology, dixestive and neurology; teleconsultation of cardiology, dixestive, neurology, endocrine and internal medicine; the rapid pathways of colon cancer, lung, breast, larinx, bladder, prostate, lumbalxia, dementia, melanoma; the change in the situation of the Verin CAP to the Verin Commercial Hospital to make this service more accessible. And as far as primary care is concerned, which is always said to be in the background, and I think we do not, we have great professionals in primary care, and for example we talk about dermatoscopy in the service of the Inclán Valley; anoscopy in the service of the Acuña; implementation of the woman's program to all primary care services in the province of Ourense; creation of the physiotherapy units of Carballeira; decentralization of the treatment of anticoagulant with primary variation by physician and nurse for all primary care services of EOXI; implementation of the electronic request for analytics in four services: Maceda, The Bridge, Bande and Castro Caldelas; establishment of the Committee on Palliative Care and implementation of techniques and palliative care in primary care; implementation of ambulatory measurement and blood pressure; provision of dental medicine in the service of Carballeira; implementation of the program and treatment of the therapeutic follow-up of antipsicotenics prep; injection of programs of patients to make a year of demauriae All of these services, procedures and processes before them did not exist, and undoubtedly, there is a very significant improvement in the care provided to our patients. It doesn't coincide, of course, with all this that I just said to you, something like a black landscape, which called me a fireman, where it all burns, and it burns Ourenses, burns Pontevedra, burns The Crown; it burned absolutely everything. It's not that reality of Welsh health, it's not that, and especially, sometimes, what we should do is a vision of what I had a few months ago, not much later, to know the difference between what we have and, of course, the future projects that later, in the second intervention, I'll be able to comment on. Thank you very much, Mrs. Acuña.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u376	Thank you, Counselor. Mrs. Acuña's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u377	Thank you, President. Counselor, I told you about the health problems in Ourense we have people, both sick people and professionals. And you told me about numbers, numbers, and powerful data. Very well, for a very easy number, tell me how many professionals there are in the Ourense hospital and how many in other hospitals in our autonomous community; we can compare them. Hard data, I'll tell you one: strike. The strike, Mr. Counsellor, do you want greater continuance? And of course, it justifies Mrs. Eloine's good work in her long experience. Well, yes, in that we've agreed, it's been as long as it's been ruling the PP in Galicia, but the only one who's experienced is her, because all the experienced professionals have eliminated them with forced retirements. [[Applause]] Look, I thought maybe you weren't well aware of all the problems, and now I've confirmed it, but I've also confirmed that you're not aware of the solutions to those problems, which is much more serious. Look, Counselor, what are you going to do in Ourense, what are you going to do with a privatized maintenance that we now pay double, we pay the public employees and the employees of the private company, and nobody does the maintenance? The public because they can't and the private because they don't know. What will you do with that determination of the labour inspection that recognises the fraudulent recruitment by Mrs. Eloína Núñez and obliges the Ourense Administration to pay off the worker and, of course, to the Social Security Box – the box of all and all – which you left without violating these Monday-to-Friday contracts which will suspend at the end of the week to resume Monday. Contracts, Counselor, you little ones. But contracts, besides, illegal for workers and, of course, fraudulent for social security. A scandal that you have very little cover, very quiet, but a scandal after all. What do you want to do with the master plan, Counselor? I don't know if you know that about this master plan plans the complaint of the Greek companies that denounced how you handed this master plan over to Ferrovial. What will you do with the European funds you have there, which is now the end of the deadline? And why do they condition the money for Ourense's Master Plan in the Budget Act, what do they condition it? I've already told you more than once, to be put? Yes, the Ferrovial company would put it on, because they want to make Ourense a second Vigo. I suppose with the fire you've got in Vigo, you'd get it to your ability as a fireman. Look, what are you gonna do with the wrecked internal medicine service? With all these vacancies given with forced retirements, that figure we've asked thousands of times for you, that seem to like numbers, and that never gave us. What will you do with the parade of heads of services put on your fingers, and yet resign, Counselor. With the collapsing emergency service, which even if you don't see here now, because you've hidden them, hidden them in that warehouse, there they are. By the time hemodynamics is 24 hours, by the time the health centers are engaged.Is that what you're talking about? What will you do, Counselor, with so much deterioration? What are you going to do about that strike and that Mrs. Núñez, who is responsible for all that failure. Look, in Ourense you have very serious problems, and I really advise you to go there. Look, Mrs. Núñez has no talent or talent. In these 20 days since the first day of the strike in October – October 13 – until now, November 10, do you know how many times Mrs. Eloine has met with the strike committee? I'll tell you, on one occasion. She's not a valid interlocutor, and, you know why? Because it's no longer credible, because it's been lying for many years. The situation, Counselor, ladies and gentlemen, this is a call for attention. The situation in Ourense is intolerable. On the one hand we have – I insist on the idea – Feijóo's PP, who gives public health to his cousin to destroy it, and on the other hand we have Baltar's PP, who gives the Deputy to Mr. Baltarín, the heir. Yes, yes, that gentleman who first played with cars and now he's bigger playing with women. [[Applause]] Look, it's an example of machismo...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u378	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u379	...of caciquism, nepotism, corruption and boundless decadence; while you come here and tell us a few numbers, and while you did it...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u380	Finish. Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u381	...applause and excuse the repugnant and indecent behaviour of that dream called Mr. Baltar.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u382	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u383	I ask you to remove the health from all that mud, Counselor – and finish – and to do it soon, because Ourense's public health can't stand it any longer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u384	Thank you, Mrs. Acuña. Mr. Counsellor's closing shift.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u385	Mrs. Acuña, a few arguments must be made because to speak of Ourense's health, you have to end personal disqualifications to people who are not present either. I think it is sad to use the health of all orensans to fill this House with mud and mud, as you well say. [[Applause]] I do want to remove the health from the mud, and I think that for that is the data, there are just the data. Look, you keep calling it serious, but your story ends with personal disqualifications, when what we want to tell you, what I want to tell you, at least, is that we can compare the current situation with the situation in 2009, when you ruled your coalition party. For example in surgical interventions, in 2014 they were performed at the EOXI set in Ourense 16,568 –16,000 –, 3,868 more than in 2009 –3,868–. It's equivalent to 15 interventions more every day of work, every day of work. In this same period, surgical performance increased to 65.9%, from 65.9 to 77.2, and surgical waiting time decreased by 5.3%. External consultations in 2014 were conducted 661,000, 145,000 more than in 2009. It's 560 consultations more every day of work and every day of work. So, if the indicators are better now than in 2009, and you keep the claim that the situation today is serious, I invite you to define me as you think things were in the period when the Bipartite ruled. These good indicators don't mean we don't have to keep improving, as I said at first. In any case, to assess in detail what we are destined for each euro, and that the citizenship of Greece made our provision for the best possible results. His lordship also talks about the lack of material resources and the abandonment of EOXI, I think that's also very, very, very distant from reality. Between 2009 and 2014 the Health Council invested 17.2 million euros in Ourense hospitals, 17.2 million euros. In the specific case of CHOU, exactly in 2014, EUR 4.8 million was invested, and in this 2015 we have contracted work worth more than 31 million. And next year – 16 – the master plan of what you were talking about will be completed, and we have signed to spend 18.5 million euros there. Besides, we would have to add to all of this 4.1 million for hospital equipment, because it's not just building, it's also equipment so they can be used by our patients. As far as primary care is concerned, the construction of equipment from the health centres of Vilamarín, Vilar de Santos, Entrio, La Merca, Toén, Os Peares and Carballeda de Avia, and now what is being done in Ourense's own city is the Couto – which you will know well – where 3.6 million euros will be invested. Therefore, we are also talking about existential indicators, as if we were talking about investments, we cannot objectively question in any way the bet decided by the board and the board by health care in the Integrated Administration of Ourense, Verín and O Barco. If you want to mention the comments you've made, too, because you're talking about the emergency situation being disastrous. Well, I think it was done a work and an expansion where spaces were improved, where it was improved in comfort, which was opened in September two months ago. He talks about the strike, and obviously the strike is something we don't want at all, and we think there are channels to sit down. I think you even said that you met the manager once with the committee, and I think it's not true. You may well say so without bad faith, but there was even an agreement at a meeting that later at the assembly was not approved, but the agreement was signed by representatives of the Power. Anyway, we have excellent professionals at EOXI in Ourense, both in primary and specialized, and we believe...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u386	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u387	...that there is enough way to reach agreement. And just tell him, simply, that Security is a model that will be moved to the whole Sergas. I think it's a breakthrough – I, very big – that as a pilot program is being set up in Ourense precisely for that, to see those little problems that we can fix, so that soon we can use them at the level of all the Greeks. But I don't know if you know what Security is, and Secure is something as simple as trying to connect...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u388	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u389	...which is the attention of the 061 with emergency care; that it has been integrated since it rose to an ambulance of the 061 that calls a patient from his home, from the road or wherever he wants, so that we know about it in the medical system, so that we can get the information from the entire episode. So, I think it's something new, something important, and it's been elected Ourense because we want him to have a future health. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u390	Thank you very much, Counselor. Da Yolanda Díaz Pérez and two other Members of the G.P. on the use of military drones in the Rozas aerodrome
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u391	You have the floor to appeal to Mr. Vázquez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u392	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon, everyone. I would like to begin today in advance that I will make a complaint, a serious complaint in this plenary, the most serious complaint that can be made in a democratic Parliament. I'm going to accuse the German Parliament of treason, of treason to the Greek people, which is undoubtedly the most serious crime a democratic government can commit in front of a people. But these charges, which I'm going to clarify, need a series of prior considerations. We live in times when there is a remarkable increase in war conflict across the planet. An increase in the war conflict that many authors give in calling for the entry of a Cold War II. The interventionism and participation of Western military powers, and the powers related to the conflicts of Ukraine, Syria, Libya, and before in Iraq, Afghanistan, etc., in a fierce struggle for the sharing and control of natural resources, such as oil, gas, water, are costing a lot of innocent lives. The lives of thousands of men, women, children and children in one of the greatest exterminations of mankind's history. According to data from the United Nations Commissioner, between 2000 and 2013 26,000 people died in the Mediterranean, a sea that is already the largest common being in the history of our planet. And it wasn't a natural disaster. That extermination has clear responsibility. But this increase in military activity, this entry into the Second Cold War, is accompanied by a corresponding increase in NATO military activity also in our country. Last November 6th, the largest military maneuvers NATO has carried out since World War II were completed throughout the Spanish state. 36,000 soldiers from more than 30 countries participated in military exercises called real phase. NATO thus placed the Spanish State - placed them all - at the epicenter of this Second Cold War. Last October 1st was Grossa. Grossa is an air systems procurement group belonging to Air Army Intelligence Management No. 1. This group – an elite group – in charge of Lieutenant Colonel Barrios, has as its exclusive equipment the Israeli-made Searcher drones employed by the Spanish Army in the Afghanistan conflict. Well, the first performance of this elite group took place in Rozas, in the province of Lugo, and constituted evidence with these drones, with the drones Searcher mentioned above. And what was the purpose of these tests, in addition to being carried out for 4 days in September by that group, the Big Group? For two specific purposes, and these purposes were recognized by sources of the Ministry of Defence. First, prepare your participation in the maneuvers that I mentioned at the beginning of NATO, and, secondly, proceed to the integration of this group – the Grosse – into the NATO Joint Intelligence, Surveillance and Recognition System. In fact, the tests carried out in Rozas were, to a large extent, part and advance of NATO maneuvers. He said at first he was going to make a grave accusation today, and it is to accuse the German Government of treason. Well, this is the truth, the German Government is allowing it, but not only to allow it, it's covering it up, but not only to cover it up, it's favoring Rozas to be an installation for NATO service, as I have just demonstrated. The German Government hides evidence from NATO in our territory, in German territory. And this is very serious. The Greek Government has not only hidden information about evidence of military drones in Rozas; it has not only hidden information of the Atlantic project, developed in Rozas with a drone of military character; it has not only hidden the purpose of the investments – not forgotten, public investments of the Government of Galicia in a facility held by the Ministry of Defence –; it has not only lied to this House at the mouth of the President of the German Government. The Greek Government has misled Galician citizenship about the true intentions of investments to be made at the Rozas aerodrome. We have denounced him from the beginning, and day after day, plenary after full, we have brought the corresponding evidence, and the most serious of all is that at no time the Government has been able to deny them. And there is something more serious, ladies and gentlemen, that we have an obligation to tell the citizen: the German Government has put Rozas in NATO's service by deceiving the people of Greece, and in return for nothing, in exchange for a blank check. Because the only thing the German Government did in front of the repeated allegations of the Alternative Left Gaga was to look elsewhere, as if the problem had not been with them, and this is also tremendously serious. In a context of international war escalation, as stated at the outset, an international war scale with unprecedented strategic purposes and complexity, the German Government allows Rozas, allowing the Welsh territory, to be a key element in NATO's surveillance strategy. And do it undercover, bubblingly to the citizenry. I don't know if we can handle the gravity of these facts. The Grosa special group, which prepared its manoeuvres at the Rozas aerodrome, as recognized by the Ministry of Defence's own publications, carried out these tests with the consent of the Government of Galicia. So we're not talking about the development of the Atlas project, we're not talking about putting an installation paid with public resources in the service of the Ministry of Defence. What we're talking about is that the transfer agreement signed by the Galician Council and the Ministry of Defence is null and void, because it is violated repeatedly by the Ministry of Defence itself in every one of its terms. We're talking about the financing agreement, which the Board will provide, as it has repeatedly published, more than 55 million euros for non-military technology, is null and void. And we're talking about investing European funds – European funds – in an absolutely illegal way. I think these facts are of yours tremendously serious. But at first I was saying that the most serious charge that can be made to a government is not to embezzle, but to betray its people by lying, deceiving and concealing information in such a gross way. We impose responsibilities on the Government of Greece, but we ask, if you have a minimum of dignity – which little dignity can remain for you – that recognises, firstly, the facts and, secondly, that you have led him to lie to the people of Greece in such a gross and so grave manner. To account for the members of the German Government, for the people who are part of the follow-up commission of these agreements which the Greek Government has signed with the Ministry of Defence. It should be noted, in addition, that the German Government is in possession of the aircraft certifications necessary to perform this type of test. Which explains why civilian populations overpowered the Searcher drones in that so-called secret airspace. That he should ultimately account for what he is doing, what he is permitting, and that he should recognize his monumental deception. Nothing else for now.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u393	Thank you very much. The Councilman of Economy, Employment and Industry, Mr. Francisco Conde López, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u394	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Vázquez, I greatly regret that the AGE once again uses this forum to sow doubts about a project that, firstly, can allow the vertebration of an innovative industrial fabric in Galicia and, secondly – as you know perfectly – to comply with all the rules, both Community and Spanish. I am deeply sorry, and I have to regret today that you use this forum to accuse a government of treason, with absolutely simplistic, arbitrary and demagogic arguments, and I believe that Parliament is for other important things. [[Applause]] But look, Mr. Vázquez, this government is being completely transparent, it's a project that's too far from partisan positions, and, of course, it's a country project that needs everyone's unit of action, but I see that this unit of action simply breaks AGE, with absolutely simplistic arguments. I'm going to give you two examples, what happens is that with AGE you never know who you're talking to, because within AGE there are different positions. Because, of course, that argument that brings here the war conflict, etc., I have to understand that then I'm going to answer a question about the naval sector, and then I understand that you, AGE, are against the military naval construction in Ferrol. I understand it by the same argument you put on the table this afternoon. [[Murmurs.]] But, well, in any case, I've already said that this is a common position on the part of AGE of permanent internal contradictions. Just as it turns out that your group – I don't know which part of your group – in Andalusia supports the Arenosillo aerodrome unanimously from all groups, including United Left, and not here. Andalucia if you can develop these kinds of projects, not here in Galicia, not here. So look, Mr Vázquez, in all respects, in Galicia we want to be among the best, we want to develop industrial projects in the country, we want to develop vertebrate projects. And, of course, from transparency to compliance with Spanish Community legislation, we are going to act logically so that we can actually develop a project like the project of planes registered in Rozas. [[Applause]] If I may, I still regret his intervention, because it seems – and it is no longer the first time – that AGE simply uses this forum to challenge a Government – by the way, I remind you, democratically elected – without providing any kind of ideas. It seems they're just worried about damaging Galician image, they've already wanted to do it with Pemex, and now it looks like we're not going to harm the government now through a project in the aeronautics sector. And it seems – and that's the grave – that they want to use this project to create social alarm. That is truly serious, and that, of course, the Greeks will certainly not appreciate it at any time. But by entering into the matter, and I repeat it again because I've already said it in this House, the centre of Rozas is exclusively dedicated to the activities of R & D+i of unmanned aircraft for civil use and certification of these aircraft. That is the reality, you know that this commitment is actually taken up in an agreement signed with INTA, by the way, published in the Official Gazette of the State, where you can consult perfectly what is its content and what are the obligations. And, indeed, it is recalled that the destination of all investments is equipment and research for civil applications, Article 5 of the Convention published in the Official Gazette of the State. But he also knows perfectly well – but he knows – that this investment that is collected in that agreement, which is EUR 10 million, is co-financed by the ERDF funds, by the European Regional Development Fund. And you know perfectly well that these funds – you know – can only be used for civil development. Therefore, Mr. Vázquez, the only answer I have to your questions is a round no. It has no legal argument whatsoever to say that this Government is actually not complying with Community legislation, that it is complying with Spanish legislation and that it is being fully transparent. You know perfectly well that the evidence you mention is evidence that took place in September and that they only had a goal -- I wanted to clarify it because it seems that you also want to confuse in that sense -- that it was to certify an aircraft for your civilian utility. The certifications of civil aircraft are perfectly regulated, which is what was done in Rozas, because you know perfectly well that this certification process is not carried out in the military. Therefore, the centre of Rozas is only used to test planes for civil purposes, and it is only used to obtain airworthiness certificates that are required to operate within European space without ever leaving at any time to guarantee the safety of all. I believe that these are truly important aspects. But if I may, I'm going to focus on the Rozas project, because it seems that you don't want to get into the bottom of the question and just want to stay in shape; I want to get into the bottom of what the Rozas project means. The Rozas project knows perfectly well that it can be expected for Galicia to develop an industrial and technological pole in the aeronautical sector in the field of unmanned aircraft. And that bet implies to Galicia the opportunity, first of all, to capture new resources, to capture talent and to create knowledge from Galicia and to Galicia. And it's an opportunity for Galicia to set industry and employment inside Lugo, with knots all over the territory, that's what the Rozas project means. And according to that objective, this Government has launched an initiative that I understand is not well read – or at least not prepared – an international pioneering initiative that is allowing nine companies – the nine most important companies in the international aviation industry – are actually pushing for investment in Rozas. We're talking about Airbus, Boeing, Indra, Everest, EBI Systems, AgustaWestland, Telespazio, Inaer, Thales and a Welsh UTE. All of them, ladies and gentlemen, presented their projects to achieve this goal of developing an industrial and technological pole in Galicia. And these projects must logically have a tractor effect on all the production fabric in Galicia and on the centres of knowledge and on the universities in Greece. He knows perfectly well that we are carefully evaluating all those offers and, of course, we have a very clear perspective of being able to sign these contracts with one or more partners during the month of December; a clear goal that this Government has to develop and that can afford an opportunity for Galicia. I understand that you want to deprive Galicia of those opportunities, as they want to deprive it of many more opportunities. In any case, the Rozas project has a clear intention of developing it, because we understand it's an opportunity for Galicia. And it's an opportunity and we'll do it with the operation of the plants in the center of Rozas next year, with this investment of 10 million euros. We'll do it with the choice of a tech partner and the start of the industrial and innovation campaign, with an investment of 25 million euros. And we will also do so, ladies and gentlemen, with a call for an innovative public procurement bid to improve strategic public services through unmanned aircraft, with an investment of 20 million euros. In total, ladies and gentlemen, an unprecedented investment in the intensity of the continent and in time of 55 million euros up to 2020 to promote a new strategic sector that will enable us to expand our capabilities from an industrial point of view, and which has a clear objective, to develop innovative and industrial projects linked to the use of unmanned aircraft for the management of the territory and the provision of civil-use services. Mr. Vázquez, for civil use. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u395	Thank you very much, Counselor. Replica roll. You have the word of Mr. Ramon Vázquez for the Alternative Left-Galga.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u396	Well, Counselor, believe me if I tell you I'd like you very much, nothing more than to think that you don't know anything. I'd like to think that you don't know about the evidence being carried out in Rozas, that the Army and the Ministry of Defence are fooling him, and that, well, ultimately, you are the victim of this process. I don't know what you were when I spoke to you, and I don't know if you have armored or curly ears, but I can't believe you don't know anything about it, because you missed talking about a key fact, a key element. Because he didn't speak of the evidence that this elite group, the Grossa, held last September in Rozas. You didn't mention them, you didn't mention them, you talked about evidence for civil certification... and, of course, I have to ask you, do I put those evidences on that elite group of the Intelligence Regiment of the Ministry of Defence in Rozas yes or no? Well, the answer is yes, I can show you pictures. Look, this is a picture taken in Rozas, this military that you see here, that brings a vest with a body that is very proper not of elite groups, that's what civil engineers take when they do tests with non-military artifacts. This is another photo of the drone control booth. But you know what's more serious? Let these photos be published by an official magazine of the Ministry of Defence, an official publication of the Ministry of Defence. And you know what's the most serious? That this magazine – which you can consult and read – says that the tests carried out by Grossa in Rozas had two purposes – and I said earlier –: the first one, to prepare the participation of this newly created elite group in NATO maneuvers that took place early in October and, secondly, the integration of that group into the NATO Joint Intelligence, Monitoring and Recognition System. That's the official truth of the Ministry of Defence that you're hiding and that you're pretending you don't know. Because to me, I insist, I would like to believe that you don't know anything, that you don't know anything about what's going on, because at least we could save your face from the German Government. The proof of their despair is two things: this Government when desperate goes to two elements; first, I don't know which part of the AGE I'm addressing; that's the first element to which it goes when they're already cornered; and second, to talk about Andalusia, that's a constant, that's its constant. And so you started your intervention, of course, that's right, you didn't mention the elite group of the Intelligence Regiment of the Ministry of Defence, the Grossa, who conducted tests for four days in Rozas to immediately join the greatest military maneuvers – as our illustrious Minister of Defense said – of our planet's recent history. I was wondering, I was trying, as always, to look for possible contradictions. What do I think of military ships in Ferrol? I never escape my responsibilities. Look, what I'd like to do is live in a truly sovereign country, which had a sovereign army, which had worked in the service of the general interest and its citizens, and not have a country that has a minister who worked for the largest multinational of European armament EADS, later integrated into Airbus; one of those companies you selected in that famous contest – which is military – Airbus and Defence, and forgot to put the second part of that company. Like Boeing, the first U.S. weapons manufacturer, he forgot to say it. Well, I'd like to live in a country that didn't have a minister who put the army at the service of the transnational armaments, that privatizes our army and leads to the collapse of our army's accounts. That's the country we live in, of course! [[Applause]] [[Murmurs.]] And I would, of course, like to live in a country with a public company that had made its own resources for your army. Yes, sir, of course I would! [[Murmurs.]] And that this army had defended the general interest and had worked to live in a more peaceful and just world. All contrary to what you do by sending young men and girls to Iraq, as you sent them, who had died there civilian victims... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u397	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u398	...children and girls...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u399	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u400	...and above them they have no decency to ask or forgive in this House.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u401	Thank you very much, Mr Vázquez. The Councilman of Economy, Employment and Industry, Mr. Francisco Conde, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u402	Mr. Vázquez, above all the very peaceful tone, that's the first, the first. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Well, anyway, I, desperate or not, what I came to talk about here is the Rozas project, and you talked about everything but Rozas, and an aeronautic project of development of unmanned planes. Anyway, if I tell you about Andalusia, Mr. Vázquez, it's a very simple matter, it's the only similar center in Spain. [[Murmurs.]] So I don't have any kind of fixation with Andalusia, I just make a comparison. In Spain there are two aerodromes in which one can develop a project of these characteristics, one is in Galicia and the other is in Andalusia, in Arenosillo, and it turns out that in Andalusia United Left supports the development of a center of these characteristics and projects linked to them and not in Galicia. Well, this is an internal contradiction. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] In any case, you didn't answer that question, I imagine your partner, your partner when you ask me the question about Navantia Ferrol, I imagine you'll answer me; you didn't answer me. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] But anyway, I don't know if... [[Mrs. Díaz Pérez speaks words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u403	Mrs. Díaz, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u404	...or I don't know if, indeed, United Left or AGE — or I don't know who I'm going to talk to this afternoon — are in favor of civil-military construction in Navantia or not. [[Murmurs.]] Of course it seems that some people say yes... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u405	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u406	...and others say no. In any case, I will clarify to you, Mr. Vázquez, no military-purpose flights were carried out at the ICAR. All flights that took place in Rozas are for civil purposes, and the Galician Union, of course, is not collaborating with the Army in any kind of military testing. I tell you all round, and you follow with that sovereignist drift, which now looks like AGE defends having a sovereign army as well. So this is a new drift that we'll actually have to take into account, but in any case, there you are. [[Murmurs.]] In any case, ladies and gentlemen, this Government, with absolute transparency, is defending a clear project that we understand will allow in Galicia industrial fabric to be made and that in Galicia knowledge is made of the issue of innovation, and of course it is a bet that we will continue to work on. [[Applause]] Mr. Vázquez, in Rozas in Galicia we have the infrastructure, in the center of Rozas we have the skills from the industrial point of view and from the point of view of knowledge, and we have the talent. And, of course, Galicia deserves an opportunity and this government is making it available to the Greeks 55 million euros so that, in fact, in the first place, they invest 10 million euros in the centre of Rozas to improve their infrastructure. Secondly, we can sign a contract with an aeronautics industry to develop an innovation and industrial project amounting to EUR 25 million, in addition to their contribution. And thirdly, we will make the industry available an innovative public procurement bid of 20 million euros to develop projects and services linked to the administration. It's a vertebrate project and I'm just going to give you a data: the main aeronautical companies have put their roadmap in Galicia, because, in fact, they see a serious project, a government bet, they see the infrastructure, they see that we actually have the resources and that we make European funds available for this project. And, I urge you, our productive fabric, our universities and our technology centers deserve this opportunity. And, of course, this government is going to work so that the aircraft sector in Galicia has an opportunity and serves to fix industrial fabric. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u407	Thank you very much, Counselor. We continue the development of the agenda with point 8 of the Government's questions. Question from Da María Carmen Acuña do Campo and two other MPs from G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the forecasts of the Government of Galicia regarding the adoption of special measures in the face of the increase of gender violence in Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u408	You have the word of Mrs. Acuña to ask your question.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u409	Thank you, President. Good afternoon again, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Rueda, on this near day for Greek equality. Look, Mr. Rueda, the Greek women and the vast majority of society in this country don't want any more murdered women, no more living women because of machismo. So I'm asking you about this, are you responsible for the equality of the Greek Government that you're going to do? Of course, to rule out our request to review the protocols after the unfortunate case of the Verín woman, "finished" - and I'll use that term again - by her batterer in a public hospital bed, it's no good. Mr. Rueda, that murder showed that everything fails, at least in Ourense. Do you think that the Oransian citizenship, that the victim's family, that feminists will understand the decision of the Verín judge not to protect her so much that this decision is today endorsed by the Supreme Court of Justice in Galicia? Reasoned decision, reasoned decision, quick answer, that's what the court says about that decision. But, of course, Mr. Rueda, what is clear is that it was a wrong decision, because Isabel was killed by her. Mr. Rueda, as responsible for equality and justice, you should be checking the mistakes of that process so well done, but with those bad consequences, because you can happen again at any time. And do you think that the Greek citizenship and the golden citizenship understand the support Mr. Feijóo is giving to Mr. Baltar? Look, I don't know about Feijóo or the PP, but for the rest of the world the matter of Baltar's son, heir to the presidency of the Ourenses Deputy, which is evidence of a repugnant, repugnant, indecent and intolerable machismo in any person, and especially in a public office. I would like to ask you, as head of equality, of justice, and as secretary general of the Galician PP – who, by the way, assumes that you have to know very well the German Law against gender violence – don't you think that Mr. Baltar's matter can be labeled sexual harassment? And if you can't label it or not you label it sexual harassment, then what do you think it is? And tell us, what are you going to do about the increase in gender-based violence? But also, what measures are you going to take in the case of Mr Baltar, before, during, and after I speak to the Prosecutor's office? I guess I don't have to...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u410	Thank you, Mrs. Acuña. Your time is up, Mrs. Acuña. [[Madam Acuña do Campo speaks words that are not perceived.]] No, you know the questions are over. Mrs. Acuña, Mrs. Acuña! [[Applause]] Mr. Alfonso Rueda has the floor of the vice president and chairlor, public administration and justice.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u411	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mrs. Acuña, finally removes the face. The separation of powers already does not exist. The question is as the general secretary of the People's Party or vice president of the Union. At last the face is removed on such an important subject as gender violence. You're finally receding what I've always thought, politicalizing about serious issues. [[Applause]] He just said he's calling the Secretary General of the People's Party here. I suppose it would betray the subconscious, I'd be thinking about what it always thinks and doesn't mean, but in the end it's seen that for you this is a subject for politics much more than anything else. You don't know if you know this is an urgent question, I suppose you know it because you formulated it, or at least you signed it. He says the question is for the resounding deaths of macho violence and devotes 20 seconds to talking about it, and the rest of Mr. Baltar. In fact, ask me as a general secretary for a political theme, the other – I'm sorry to say my feeling – is that it gives you quite the same, it's to make electoralism at a time when there are elections. That's what there is, Mrs. Acuña. Look, I'm going to tell you one thing, macho violence continues to be a crack for all of us, there's still men killing women and therefore it's still a problem for all of us. I don't care who is the secretary general of a party, who is the honourable Member asking from the other party, that's a problem we all have. And, of course, when you make a distinction and start saying one party or another, then you see the will of what the question does, but of course, not what the answer will do to you. I'm going to answer you as Vice President of Galicia, for that I come here and for that I tell you that, honestly, Mrs. Acuña, if you think this is an inevitable issue, then you have to start doing electoralism, and I tell you that it's not inevitable. Surrender? Never. Think it's everyone's responsibility? Always. You want me to tell you everything you did to the Galician Union? In case you don't know, because sometimes I hear you talk and I honestly think you don't know, or -- if you know -- you want to ignore it, or you want people to at least don't know it. We created the Network – and I'm going to read, because it's a pretty long relationship and I don't know if it's going to give me time, but at least I want to be especially scrupulous about this, we've created the law of local German entities against gender violence, through an agreement with Fegamp. We woke up the figure of the Galician Union in criminal proceedings in case of death for gender violence. We have developed and put in place the comprehensive training plan. in order to promote gender equality and violence training in the Autonomic Police. We constitute the Galego Observatory of Gender Violence, which already has three working groups active. We set up the Non-Sexist Advertising Commission. We opened, and it is in operation, the Centre for Integral Recovery for Women Victims of Gender Violence. That center that you say doesn't exist, but it's been working for over a year with obvious results. We have launched the Plan to dynamize local tables against gender-based violence, a municipal alert network. We have maintained resources for women who suffer from gender-based violence to come out of violence. In economic aid? More than 22 million euros invested, 3,057 women cared for. Psychological support? Over these six years more than a million euros invested, nearly 3,000 women cared for. [[Murmurs.]] I could go on, but, Mrs. Acuña, in the end, you know what I'm telling you? That all this after...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u412	Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u413	...I read that we support you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u414	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u415	... where we ask them – sorry, Madam President, just to finish –
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u416	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u417	... where we asked them... we gave them support at the moment and we asked for support from you, but at the end of the day they made electoralism, they didn't propose a single measure...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u418	Thank you very much. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Replica, Mrs. Acuña.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u419	Thank you, Madam President. Look, Mr. Rueda, I will not tolerate you as a woman, nor as an oress, nor as a feminist, that you speak to me with that contempt and with that prepotence, I will not tolerate you. [[Applause]] [[Murmurs.]] Yeah, yeah, that's right, Mr. Rueda, that's right. Today you can't speak of gender-based violence and of Ourense without speaking of Mr. Baltar. Look, neither the tolerance of President Feijóo nor the arrogance of his answer is justified. You're being accomplices, Mr. Rueda, in this matter. And I don't know if by politics, if by justice – you call it what you want – but that gentleman had to have been done at first, stopped by you since the first time that this matter was made public. That matter, Mr. Rueda, repugnant, repulsive! But for that, Galician PP had to have some ethics, not in papers, but in real ethics. Look, people are asking themselves in Ourense, and now throughout Galicia, who knows Mr. Baltar Feijóo for the President to change... yes, yes. [[Murmurs.]] They're asking, what do you know? And I also wonder if Baltar might know something about you as well. Because I find it very difficult to believe...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u420	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u421	...Yes, Mr Feijóo, you and all the Italian PP, including the ladies, including the ladies, including the Chairperson's Lady, find it very difficult to believe that they agree with that way; according to that of changing sexual favors for jobs in the Deputies, and all well-fed flour, Mr. Rueda, because that's what I'm talking to you about. Look, neither the contempt of Feijóo, nor the machismo of the PP, nor Baltar's indecency...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u422	Thank you very much, Mrs. Acuña.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u423	...no indolence and prepotence...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u424	Thank you very much, Mrs. Acuña.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u425	...they will end the violence. I just hope this case...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u426	Thank you very much. That's it. [[Applause]] Replica from the vice president, Mr Alfonso Rueda.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u427	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mrs. Hide, nothing new. Whenever there are such questions, you when there's no arguments left, which is usually always, speak of arrogance, speak of prepotence, always the same! [[Murmurs.]] It's in the Journal of Sessions. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Murmurs.]] There's a novelty, now you call me your golden condition, that's new, the rest is always the usual. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Not to mention the principal. I remind you, I told you in the first intervention and I have to tell you again, that this is an urgent question motivated – you yourself say it – by the resurgence of the deaths in gender violence. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Not two seconds devoted to his second intervention on this subject. He doesn't care about anything at all. He didn't talk about deaths in gender-based violence, being the reason for the urgency of his question, nothing! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] You and your party are being treated, if you're doing it perfectly, Mrs. Acuña! Ask me an urgent question with a motivation that you completely forget in your intervention, and therefore I have to draw two conclusions: either follow instructions from your party or it's a personal conviction. I want to think he's the first, because if he's the second, he should fall in shame. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u428	Thank you. Question by Ms. Maria Teresca Paz Franco, of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the complaint lodged by a woman in relation to the president of the Ourense Provincial Deputy
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u429	You have the floor, Mrs. Paz Franco, to ask the question.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u430	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Wheel, to save you a job, I'll start by giving you two first things: I'm a woman and a goldsmith; it's nothing new, it's been like this for 48 years. The second priority: the question that we are going to put down next is an urgent question signed by myself, and the motivation was to talk about the repugnance that most of society produces not only the things that Mr Baltar is accused of, but above all the reaction of the Galician Union and its highest responsibility, which is the president of the Galician Union. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] And that's why, Mr. Rueda, you're a person here, because I also asked Mr. President of the Galician Union the question. But since you're here and you're the most responsible of the Galician Union in relation to the policies of equality and fighting against gender-based violence, let me give you two appreciations. First, gender-based violence is not just that they get involved in women and that they kill them, that gender-based violence is also the manifestations, words, sexual abuse, sexual harassment, the cossification that Mr. Feijóo made of women making us remain as mere objects to serve the satisfaction of men, the interests of the kind that are of men. That's why, Vice-President, we put this question, because we want to know two things. This is not a court of justice and here there are no criminal responsibilities or any other kind, here are political responsibilities. My question is: Does the People's Party and this government have any kind of ethical code? In that ethical code, is there no typification contrary to the ethics of conduct that ignores the equality of persons and women? Is there not in your ethical code any kind of principle that prevents people who hold public office from sexually using women and promise them, above, to commit the cacicism of all life but instead of the exchange of cars, in exchange for sexual favors? Mr. Rueda, you, at the highest level responsible for equality in the Government of the Galician Union, do not deserve any reflection that there is a president of an MP in this country who is accused – not criminally, but politically accused and disabled by society – of sexual harassment against a woman – that is collected in the law that you have to apply every day in the field of gender equality and violence as one of the forms of gender violence – and his Government not only looks elsewhere, but is...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u431	Thank you very much, Mrs. Paz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u432	accusing the victim?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u433	The vice president, Mr. Alfonso Rueda Valenzuela, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u434	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mrs. Peace, I'm going to give you another priority: I'm a man, I'm a Greek, and I hate gender violence. In case you think you have the only one in it, because sometimes it seems like you and the others don't. [[Applause]] That's the big problem, which seems like you can talk about this without any problem and the rest of us have to shut up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u435	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u436	No one here has to shut up, no one has to shut up, Mrs. Paz. As long as you don't understand that, you won't understand the cause of the problem, which is as much as thinking that this affects us all. While they think it's because we have to call the elections and because we have to use women and we have to do electoralism on this subject, we're not going to solve anything at all. While they think that gender-based violence... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u437	Mrs. Martínez!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u438	...it's not something that abhors society and in which we're all committed, we'll have interventions like those we've had this morning on its part and like those we're having this afternoon, Mrs. Paz. Look, honestly, I appreciate the clarifications because after hearing Mrs Acuña I understand that they were necessary, I don't know if to say that you differed from what she said or to say that you abhor gender-based violence. I didn't understand it to her, I'm sure she thought it, but, of course, it wasn't what she said or what I understood. Since I think this affects us all, I have to tell you that we are a little serious, that we don't... you said we didn't come here to judge, but we've already got convictions. Here I see that there are many judges who advance everyone, who think they are in possession of truth and do not make some principles, which must be everyone's, the principle of action of any public official: prudence and firmness. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Murmurs.]] Prudence on a subject that is now judicialized. You two days ago told me and asked me about a subject that was in the judiciary right now, that you have to decide a judge, and I told you the same thing that I'm going to tell you right now: it's not a subject that is right now in the prosecution, no procedure has been initiated and, therefore, let's be careful. They expect from us all the firmness, of course, if there was any pronouncement and, in the meantime, less demagogy, less get out of here and be more serious with a subject like this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u439	Thank you, Vice President. You have the word for the reply, Mrs. Paz Franco.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u440	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Rueda, I'd like to know why you're so angry about this matter and why you don't answer what you're asked; I don't know, it must be very serious. Another thing I want to say to you: look, once there's a judicial pronouncement, frankly, your bluntness and that of Mr. Núñez Feijóo, we're not going to need it for anything anymore. Continuity has to be in political terms. Look, as for the use of women electorally, what I mean to you is that you have a measuring stick that sends tricks. Because, look, Mrs. Prado, Mrs. Marta Arias and Mrs. Julia Rodríguez did one day here, in the corridors of this Parliament, a press conference to say that they deserved absolute reprobation of absolutely macho statements, which were indeed, but they were statements and called for the immediate resignation of the person who made those statements. On that same day, more coroners of the People's Party, like Mr. Floriano, demanded the resignation of that person for reprobable macho comments, and Alfonso Alonso – you know who he is – said that "that person must stop being a counselor after he has used obscene and macho terms." That is, by saying obscene and macho things, you have to resign, but by harassing a woman, by forcing her to maintain sexual relations against her will, by violating her sexual freedom, to try to get a job, you don't have to resign. It's gonna be a measuring stick, Mr. Rueda! It's going to be a measuring stick! I have no doubt that you are reprobating gender violence, what I say is that, with this action that the Government of Galician Union is having, what you are doing is to defend macho behaviors and to defend a alleged lord who could commit an act that is enshrined in the Law...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u441	Thank you very much, Mrs. Paz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u442	...galeg of gender-based violence as gender-based violence. And that's your... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u443	Thank you very much. Replica from the Government. Vice President Alfonso Rueda has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u444	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mrs. Peace, I thank you for the first time – at least I remember – publicly that I, and I suppose by speaking about myself speak of the whole Parliamentary Group of the People's Party, do not support gender violence, because until now listening to it seems, I insist, that they have exclusiveness on this subject. Probably in that recognition is the key to solving that problem, Mrs. Paz. Look, when the arguments are finished, personal allusions begin. They always do exactly the same thing, they start with my groupmates, and they even set out to walk on this topic, Mr. Floriano. So few ideas you have to rescue Mr. Floriano to talk about the subject we were talking about? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Do you care so little about what is happening in Galicia, the huge problem of gender-based violence and the deaths that are happening, which – I say again – was what motivated the urgency of the question?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u445	Mrs. Martínez! [[Mrs. Martínez García speaks words that are not perceived.]] Mrs. Martínez, Mrs. Martínez, I call you by order and you have no word, please. Listen! Listen, if you don't want me to keep calling you, please! Mr. Vice-President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u446	Indeed, when all arguments are over, shouts, screams, and disqualifications come in. I'll call the unit again on this topic. I suppose this question, like the previous one, is based on the same and therefore let's be serious; they've already had a picture this morning, which is the one they were looking for. I suppose that's not worth anything to them, but they've already had it. [[Interruptions.]] Everyone portrays himself when you take a picture and I do it again in the name of the German Government... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u447	I suppose the vice president will have the right to speak, because for that they call him here, and therefore to answer what the vice president thinks he has to answer. Please, Vice President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u448	Thank you very much, Madam President. And without any anger, without any nervousness, we know who gets nervous when we talk about these issues; there's no nervousness here, there's everything. As soon as they don't like the arguments, they start the disqualifications, and I say... Welcome, Mrs. Paz, to Mr. Floriano's debate, which lacks such big arguments! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] You say they don't do judges, but here, in the first and second speeches, in Mrs Acuña's and Mrs Acuña's, they do judges. I suppose consciously or sometimes they make it so clear that they don't realize it: they establish guilty, they establish innocent people, they establish people free of all evil, they establish people who have nothing to say because they're completely guilty. Let's be serious, let's be objective. Prudence, firmness and coherence. If we don't do that, we won't end up in life with a problem that is everyone's and that you use – and I say it completely convinced again – in an electoral manner, using women as appropriate. This isn't a political problem, it's a Galician problem. When they realize it, the solution will begin. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Question from Da Yolanda Díaz Pérez, G.P. of the Alternative Gallega de Left, on the Supreme Court's judgment regarding the installation and operation of the Castro cemetery, in Narón
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u449	You have the floor, to ask your question, Mrs. Yolanda Díaz Pérez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u450	Thank you, President. Counsellor, I hope your relocation to another more sensitive area will be more satisfactory for the Greeks and the Greeks than it has been in your responsibility as Labour Counsellor in this country. Having said that, Counsellor, I suppose you know that in the municipal term of Narón we are privileged people in our barium and we must be of the few examples in the world where we have two cemeteries, near one another, located in a municipality that is very relevant in our country, but that a large part – as you know – is rural. First of all, I want to congratulate the people who accompany us today who have been working, Counselor, twelve years in defense of legality; twelve years – as you know – with six judgments, some of them from the Supreme Court, who have just given them reason. But apart from these judgments, from the remedies and the charges they have brought before them, they have filed three hundred and fifty allegations against the sectoralization plan, they have filed complaints before the people's valet, more than four thousand signatures, five hundred allegations against the urbanization project, eight hundred letters addressed to the Presidency of the Union, forty repossession resources, two hundred lifting resources and even five hundred allegations against the timely modification of the urban management plan. You know, I suppose as well as I do, the pronouncements that have been made, the last of them is from July of this same year and he concludes, once again, giving the reason for the proximity of the Naron Cruiser in which, in fact, he says that this Sectorization Plan is null, it is illegal, and that in addition to what has been done, if allowed to me the President, it has been a falcated. A fallatrode because, as you well know, a highly dangerous, unhealthy and polluting industrial activity was located in a rustic soil suitable for urbanization, in a rustic soil that was destined for residential use. In fact, I insist, there are six judgments that annul this planning and, therefore, force the Galician Union and all public officials and public officials to close the cemetery that we have located in Narón's municipal term. We would like to know, Counsellor, what you're going to do, if you're going to put aside the Supreme Court, justice, neighborhood, legality, or if you're going to be a rebel, like the People's Party, in defense of corporate interests, in this case a huge multinational...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u451	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u452	...and continue to violate the rights...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u453	The local environment and planning advisor, Ms. Beatriz Mato Otero, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u454	Very much, thank you, President. Thank you very much, Your Honor, for awakening in me that hope of sensibility, but what I can assure you is that the decrees of the Council of Galicia when they appoint the Government do not do so according to their sensitivity, but do so by the strict fulfilment of the Vigilance, which is an obligation that we have the governments, and that of course the Government of the Board of Galicia does. There are governments – we are used to hearing lately – that the law doesn't go with them, but I can assure you that the Government of Galician Union, and of course the Environmental Council, is – as you want to know – on the side of the law always, and as it cannot be, in this case, in the case of the Naron cemetery, it will also not be an exception. You spoke throughout your intervention, I suppose you will say it with knowledge of cause – my vocational training is an industrial engineer, your belief that it is directly linked to the law – and of course you will know that the only firm judgment that exists is that of which you spoke of the month of July, of which you had knowledge of the Unity of Galicia right now, in October. And, therefore, there is not that there is, one, two, three, four, five, six judgments, as if that were an accumulation of judgments by someone; of course, by the Council of Galicia, no. And I'm going to remind you of the procedure as to the authorization of this cemetery in Narón, which, as I say, is no exception, and, from the very first moment, this Council of Galicia has followed each and every step that the vigilante legislation gives you to make in this case an environmental authorization, as was done in 2005, that I am convinced that you know. And we did it not because we wanted it, not because we wanted it, not because we wanted it, not because we had sensitivity, but because there was a legal process that we had to comply with, in which there was a binding report, which you know very well, issued by the Council of Narón, a report that said there was compatibility with urban planning, in particular with that sectoralization plan. And indeed, Your Honor, this sectorization plan has just been ratified and firmly void, which obviously leads to the nullity of this environmental authorisation. And with the firm judgment, now, there is no year, no two, no three, no four, now, in October, the Council of Galicia acts, and acts immediately, legally, as is our obligation. Having said this, there is no fraud – you told me – there is no fraud on the part of the Galician Union – if there is any further qualification... – there is no... evil... falculate on the part of Galician Union... [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] [[Laughter]] [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u455	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u456	...no irregularities, Your Honor. Thank you very much. I'll try to continue.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u457	Thank you, Counselor. Replica. Mrs. Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u458	Thank you, President. Mrs. Mato, I really know they're having a very difficult time, I know perfectly, and I suppose they're not even able to pronounce "failed," even though they look like they're broke in their rows, for sure. Look, Mrs. Mato, I respect you very much. Of course he'll never find me, and at least one woman, questioning her responsibility, either as a woman or as a result of her training. I knew perfectly well that you were an engineer, and I suppose in addition to this particular cause, because of your specialty, you'll know better than I do what this type of infrastructure really means than I do. I'm sure you know it better than I do. What I do know, and after a long procedure and with my professionalism, too, Counselor, is that when many pronouncements are made and all say the same thing, it seems that the way was to say that it was not discursive, but that the way to where it was going. And what's right is that the public administrations weren't near the neighborhood. What I've remembered before, Mrs. Mato, is to give them a medal of Castile: they've been fighting for twelve years, spending resources, manifesting, defending legality, and nobody's heard them. I haven't brought this initiative here before, it's now when this sentence is firm enough, and now it's time to move tokens, Counselor. I suppose you know, like me, and certainly better than me for your specialty, that this neighborhood has been enduring because brutal environmental aggressions, such as the cllinker discharges and discharges that are, as you know, rather serious for public health. So I think you have a chance here today. First, you can go and greet the neighborhood, which is there, congratulate them on their struggle, and tell them that, since this is illegal and is already firm the sentence, they will close Castro's cemetery in Narón, and they will stop defending the interests of the multinationals, you and the rest of the rulers who are affected by this sentence.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u459	Thank you, Mrs. Díaz, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u460	–And finished, Mr President – Let us not forget that the authorization was granted by administrative silence, Counsellor, by administrative silence. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u461	Thank you, Mrs. Díaz. Replica. Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u462	Your Honor, I may not have spoken to you, but I can assure you that I have lived in this Parliament far harder and harder in the personal and as a woman, and as a woman, than we are living today. I remind you that I was sent home to reconcile family life with my children, and he was a deputy on that side. And I also remind you that I was accused of lying just like women faked when I faked orgasms, and he was also a member of his training. [[Murmurs.]] So don't come and tell me that this plenary was a very difficult one, to me in particular. [[Applause]] Above all that, what I can tell all these neighbors... who are here today is that they hear: that what they have in Galicia is a responsible government, a government that does not let themselves be taken for falcatruates – as you say –, a government that only does it strictly comply with the law, a government that has had, because it is their obligation, rather than it seems to say that the sentence "you say", we are not to say "you say", we are to arrive at the last sentence, that the sentence is what you come to say is that it is a firm sentence, that it cancels environmental authorization, and that it cancels the environmental authorization not because Junta had done it wrong, but because the Council has done it wrong, because the Council – of course, not governed by the People's Party in 2005, governed by Tega – issued a report as it was in accordance with the sectoralized plan, and you know very well. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And we're in this sentence what you're going to say isn't that the Board had done it wrong. If you want political responsibilities, you don't have to look for them here in the board of Galicia; you have to look at the council, which issues that report that makes the board of Galicia environmentally authorized. Having said this, and for the tranquillity of the neighbours and neighbours, we actually comply with that judgment, as with all of them, and now we are going to initiate the file for the declaration of nullity of the renewal of environmental authorisation. Galician union isn't the one that closes businesses, Galician union isn't the one that's revoking things, Galician union isn't the judge. You may be able to judge, but we don't. And of course we have to do what we need to do is start an administrative file – which is already started – which informs the company that it now has a deadline to claim, because its environmental authorisation will be revoked. And this procedure, Your Honor, you know it takes your time and you'll have the end of it legally. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u463	Thank you, Counselor. Question by Mr Alejandro Gómez Alonso and two other Members of the G.P. Popular of Galicia, on the forecasts of the Galician Union for the service of the high-performance route between Sarria and Monforte
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u464	Mrs. Rodríguez Barreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u465	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, gentlemen. Counsellor, for decades the neighbours of the south of Lugo traveled the more than sixty kilometers that separated us from the capital of the province in about an hour, a time and a distance that many neighbors, many people sporadic or regularly traveled, necessarily, because obviously, being Place the city of reference, it was there in the field of health, judicial, administrative, educational, etc., they had to do their management. That reality began to change years ago, when, as Territorial Policy Counsellor, the current President of the Union, he began to project a high-capacity track that would allow the center and south of Lugo to join the capital of the province, thus minimizing the distance, the times, but also the risks that represented a road that crossed towns and towns, which was crossed by multiple accesses and crossings and which was also one of the most transitory of our province. This project has been materializing over the years in several sections, first Nadela-Sarria, then Sarria-Noceda, and last October 23 the final stretch that has just been put into service, which, in addition to joining Bóveda to Monforte, acts the mode of circumvaluation of the latter. It is clear, Counsellor, that every stretch of your service has represented an improvement in the distance, time and security for the neighbours who from the south of Lugo travel to the capital of the province and vice versa. However, we understand that it will not be until the entire route is in service when users truly perceive the improvement that the high-performance route represents as a whole and that it justifies the important investment that the Galician Union has taken on in this infrastructure. It all indicates that once this infrastructure is in service, the times will be reduced in a very imposing way, so that Lemos neighbours, particularly, will be able to reach Lugo in just over half an hour, following a safer path and avoiding the rich who represented the paths and populations that were previously inevitable. So with the service of the final stretch of the high-performance route, one of the most transit roads in the province of Lugo will be released from traffic, but above all the south and half of the province will be approached to its provincial capital, also to the north of the province of Lugo, and throughout northern Galicia. This is not a minor issue, because if we consider how important it is to provide good communications throughout the province, obviously in an environment like that of the Sacred River, which seeks to be the heritage of humanity, for much more. So the post in service last October of this final stage and the opening of the remaining one will undoubtedly have economic repercussions in order to promote tourism and economic promotion of the province and south of Lugo in particular. For all this, Counsellor, it is understandable that the neighbors of Lugo are impatient at the service of the last stretch of the high-performance route, at the knowledge of the work that remains pending for their opening to the traffic, and therefore I ask you what are the forecasts that drive the Galician board for the service of the last stretch that remains pending to open up the traffic, i.e., the Christmas plan to the Boveda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u466	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Barreira. Response from the Infrastructure & Living Advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u467	Thank you, President. Mr President, one of the main lines of action of the Government of Greece in recent years is the bet on territorial rebalancing and the vertebration of the interior of Galicia, a bet which, in particular, in the specific case of road infrastructures, has translated into the impulse given to these tracks again drawn, essential to complete the large lines of communication within Galicia. Among these priority infrastructures is the route of high-performance Sarria-Monforte, which joins the centre and south of the province of Lugo. As you pointed out, only 20 days ago a new third of this high-performance route was opened to traffic. In particular, on October 23, 11 new kilometres of this important infrastructure came into service between the link of Bóveda and the link of West Monforte. Specifically, we opened to traffic the entire 3, 9.4 kilometers between Apera and Monforte, and 2.3 kilometers from the third 2, which is between the link of Bóveda and the start of Apera. So it's only a short time to complete the work of 7 new kilometers corresponding to the third 2, because, as you know, the first piece has already been put into service by the end of 2012. In these seven kilometers, as you asked, the performances can tell you that they are very advanced, only the end of the horizontal signaling and the ballast are pending, and, once these works are completed, we can open to traffic the route between The Intius and the remaining Bond of Boveda. In total, we're talking about nine new kilometers, the seven kilometers that are pending the works and the 2 kilometers of the third one that could not be put into service, which was conditional on the opening of the third 2. So, nine kilometers. And the specific date of the end of this kind of work, as you know, is always conditioned to weather, but in June we work with the expectation that in some days citizens will be able to circulate throughout the entire route of high-performance Sarria-Monforte. In this way, soon, both the neighborhoods in the area and the set of users will be able to count on an alternative route to LU-546. So, greater security, greater comfort, and will also contribute to the priority goal we have in the Greek Government, which is territorial cohesion, the greater vertebration of our community, to connect our towns with a modern network of communications to gain competitiveness, of course it translates into more and better opportunities for our neighbours. For my part, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u468	Thank you, Counselor. Replica. Mrs. Rodríguez Barreira.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u469	Thank you, Counselor. Certainly, we all agree on the importance that this route has to vertebrate the south of Lugo, and certainly that future which was projected in respect of this road has arrived, and therefore we are about to have a path which, put into service in its entirety, will represent one before and after for the neighbours of the south of Lugo, but for the whole province as a whole. It was often when we heard critical voices, sceptical voices, because this path was not over or because it wasn't going to the desired rhythm. That's why I think it's fair today to put in value the investor effort made to complete these last steps of Sarria-Monforte despite the budgetary difficulties we have experienced in these years of crisis. That's why, Counselor, we invite you to continue to work, to maintain that commitment you have shown to the south of Lugo, to Monforte in particular, to this infrastructure. Without a doubt, it will also manifest itself in other decisive infrastructures for the region, such as access to the dry port, which we hope to see also become a reality sooner than later. And, said this, as soon as you've just said that in a few days, because you can make use of this route, you'd like to know, if possible, the time frame you're looking at for this put into service, if you consider a predictable date or if, on the contrary, you can determine an approximate time frame. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u470	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Barreira. Shut up. Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u471	Thank you, President. Your Honor, I can move forward because the Sarria-Monforte high-performance route will be able to be fully serviced on November 27th. So on November 27, we will have guaranteed the journey between Lugo-Monforte with a high-performance route, thus offering citizens greater road safety, greater comfort and, of course, a reduction in travel times. Your Honor, the opening of this last tranche of the high-performance route will allow us to realize a key act for the accessibility of the south of the province of Lugo, a high-performance route, that of Sarria-Monforte, which will ease the movement of vehicles inside the villages, will allow us to avoid 16 kilometers per traversia and will of course contribute to an increase in road safety; also, of course, a significant saving in travel times, because between Lugo and the capital of Lemos these two towns will be connected for a little more than half an hour. So we've halved the travel times that were needed until a long time ago. And together, we are talking about 27.8 new kilometres of a high-performance route and an investment by the Galician Union of 135 million euros in full economic crisis, and 135 million of the Administration that has competences in health and education, therefore, of course an important effort. It's a road that itself is a very important factor in improving the quality of life, also in increasing the competitiveness of this area. But it's not the only road performance we're doing in Monforte to boost economic activity and also the generation of jobs. As you know, we're running the connection of the dry port of Monforte to the LU-933 road, we're investing 6 million euros, and we're also putting this infrastructure into service at the end of this year. And it will, of course, be a great advance in the connectivity of this great business polygon of southern Lugo. And, ladies and gentlemen, Junta is committed to the citizens of Monforte and the whole territory. We want to continue to advance in road safety, we want to continue to advance in the vertebration of the interior of our territory, by completing the communication mesh inside Galicia. We'll continue to work, fulfilling our goal that 80% of Galicia's population is within fifteen minutes of a high-performance route before the end of this legislation. We are aware that gambling for territorial cohesion and for the most and best infrastructure is also for new opportunities, of course, and also for greater benefits for the Greeks and for the Greeks. For my part, nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u472	Thank you, Counselor. Let us now discuss the accumulated questions. Question by Mr Miguel Ángeldo Filgueira and seven other Members of the G.P. Most popular of Galicia, about the evaluation made by the Galician Board of Future Expectations and Business Forecasts and Generation of Workload for Ferrol River Shipyards in the wake of the new contracts won by Navantia for the manufacture of components of the marine windmill Question by Mr José Manuel Beiras Torrado and six other Members of the G.P. of the Galga de Left Alternative, on the actions planned by the Galician Board for achieving sufficient workload, new productive investments and the industrial plan for the Greek public yards
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u473	I shall therefore turn to the honourable Member of the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Tellado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u474	Thank you, Mr. President. Counselor. Good afternoon, everyone. In December 2014 – there was less than a year – Iberdrola signed an important contract with Navantia and with Windar Renewables for the construction of 29 sea windjackets on Ferrol River shipyards. The contract represents a volume of EUR 90 million and a workload of approximately 900,000 hours of workload; a contract that must be completed and therefore delivered to the structures in July 2016. The Iberdrola contract allowed for the return to the activity of the yard of the old Astano once the productive veto on that yard, derived from the poor management of the previous socialist government, which in December 2004 signed that dramatic naval conversion that closed the Fene yard for ten years, which was causing 1,400 workers to be unemployed and 2,000 more in the auxiliary industry. This contract is what has allowed the old Astano shipyard to return to business nothing but to finish that productive veto that was the unquestionable inheritance of the Socialist Government, and also agreed, by the unions, to the Labour Commissions and UGT. In July 2015 a second contract reached by Navantia in the iodine of the marine windmill was published to build on the Fene shipyards five floating macrostructures for Hywind Scotland, stateile subsidiary, an experimental program to locate marine wind farms in deep waters and that could continue with the manufacture of 45 later platforms once these initials are constructed. It is therefore before an initial contract that will report 400,000 hours of workload, which will extend until February 2017. Beyond the immediate workload of these contracts, we believe, from the People's Group, that it is necessary to highlight as a really relevant milestone the entry of Navantia Fene-Ferrol into the marine wind sector, a sector, from our point of view, strategically, a key sector for the future, and that, of course, it will live stages of expansion over the next two decades, a sector that allows us to speak of real diversification, something that they wanted to hear from the ferrolans for decades and that has now been with these contracts where it first happened. Ferrol wants to keep making boats, counsellor, and, of course, there are contracts today that there were not five years ago. There's Pemex's fleet, there's the bows of these four oil tankers, there's the BAM of the Spanish Navy, there's the design and engineering of the LHD for the Turkish Navy. And the marine windshield is, of course, the perfect complement for shipbuilding and also for repairs. From this point of view, the People's Parliamentary Group wants to know about the Government of Greece what future expectations this contract opens.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u475	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u476	Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u477	Thank you, Mr. Tellado. Alternative Left Galician Group. Mrs. Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u478	Mr President, first of all, our discrepancy and protest for accumulating these two questions. Mr Tellado talks – as we have just heard – about the Iberdrola plan; we talk about the public naval sector in this country and in addition to the naval sector strategically. And understanding your strategic character, Mr. Counsellor, we would like you to tell us what you are doing by the district of Ferrolterra and, above all, that you have planned to do so that the grades are full of workers and workers, but that we do what we know to do in Ferrol, which is the shipbuilding, civil and military, and not jackets, Mr. Counsellor, which is what Mr. Tellado very much likes. I'm going to ask you some of the issues you've been hiding or it seems that Mr. Tellado is very funny, especially because we have the most dramatic unemployment figures in our country. And, above all, Mr. Counsellor, for you know, indeed, that there is no real burden of work to make ships after you have lifted the veto and have no longer Mr. Almunia in our neighborhood. Counsellor, I suppose you know that in the state budgets no euro is set for these tasks. I suppose you know from the very first hand that your facts for defense of the public naval sector in Ferrolterra are zero chips, because they don't record a penny of euro, not even formally, of the 5 million euros you had conciliated – I say formally, in papers – for that saying floating that you were defending – yes, Counsellor, that you were defending – that you were defending. So there's no R & D+i investments linked, as it stands for, in our county just right at the university, and there's no productive investments when we talk about that lack of the floating dam. Now, along with Mrs. Paula Prado, you'll have another relevant person from the People's Party who has already told us about the ferrolans and the ferrolas that you can't build the floating dam. It must be true, because – I insist – you, in your budget, not a penny of euro. But look, Counselor, we'd like to know – I'll ask the company committees again – that you tell us when the workers of the business committees are going to receive you. We'd like to know when they're going to work on the industrial plan, that plan that would rightly define what we're going to dedicate to in Navantia Fene. And, too, I remind you that in Navantia Fene they speak again the engineers – who know something about this, Counselor – tell us that they are incompatible subjects. Either we make jackets or we make boats, but we can't do that at once, just because it occupies – as you know – the crane. Because, then, let's just clarify to what we're going to dedicate ourselves to and tell us what you're going to do, at least in the shortest possible time we have left of legislation.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u479	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u480	Because in our neighborhood, nothing at all, Mr. Counselor...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u481	Thank you, Mrs. Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u482	...nothing at all. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u483	Thank you, Mrs. Díaz. Response from the economic, employment and industry advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u484	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mrs Díaz, Mr Tellado, I am grateful for your questions, because I actually allow myself to realise so much of all the initiatives that we are developing within the Welsh naval sector, which logically include that area of diversification within what is the marine wind. It is clear that AGE's position simply seeks to damage, the confrontation, indeed, against the Government. [[Murmurs.]] Because, look, they're sowing today, they're trying to sow doubts about the marine propeller this very afternoon. [[Interruptions.]] He did it three years ago with Pemex's ads. By the way, I remind you that not only two fleets will be made, three fleets will be made in Galicia. And this very afternoon we saw how they also want to question...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u485	Quiet, please. [[Mrs. Díaz Pérez speaks words that are not perceived.]] Mrs. Díaz, silence, please! Go ahead, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u486	This very afternoon...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u487	Mrs. Díaz, Mrs. Díaz, Mrs. Díaz, please be quiet! If not, I have to call her in order. Quiet, for we're going to finish the full now quietly. Go ahead, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u488	I'll repeat it. First, they want to sow doubts this very afternoon about the marine wind. Three years ago they wanted to sow doubts about Pemex's ads. And I repeat: I know you don't like it, but in Galicia there won't be two fleets, three fleets will be made. And this afternoon we saw how your group intends to sow doubts about investments in the aeronautical sector as well. The truth is, I have to tell you it's paradoxical, not to say schizophrenic again. Because, look, you're now exaggerating workload and investments for the Ferrol naval sector. I honestly don't know if this burden of work for Ferrol is because they intend to supply this sovereign Greek army that this afternoon we know as the initiative of their group, or is the work or is the dedication they have reserved to General Julio Rodríguez, who have just placed on their electoral lists. I don't know, honestly, if that's the goal you have from a future point of view to Navantia. In any case, you – and you are from the county of Ferrol – had the opportunity, indeed, to work in this direction and did not, and indeed, they were not able to sign any kind of contract when they had the responsibility to rule. But look, Mrs. Díaz, AGE is not for no reason. They say "no" to the marine windman this afternoon; they say "no" to the aeronautics sector this afternoon; but they also say "no" to Reganosa, they say "no" to the bridges, they say "no" to the Meirama. If this government were guided by its industrial policy proposals, we would have to exclude 15,000 jobs in Galicia. Look, Your Honor, that's an industrial policy of salon, and this government, of course, makes an industrial policy that's stuck to reality. That's why we're actually betting on the naval sector. That's why we're working with shipyards, auxiliary industry, institutions that actually want to work for the naval. And, of course, Your Honor, we're also working with the workers. And that's why right now – today they don't want to recognize it, but that's the way it is – there's work on the steps of all the Greek shipyards and our auxiliary companies are returning to their activity. If we talk about Navantia's case, you know that Pemex's fleet is being built. They don't want to recognize him, but he's there. There's the maritime action ship, there's the Wikinger project, as you've been transferred this afternoon. In 2015, the four Suezmax oil tankers were hired, the 5 SPAR floating structures and that design of a LHD megabuch. Finally, Your Honor, the marine wind is an opportunity for diversification, it is an opportunity that allows Ferroterra to open up a door to consolidate its productive fabric, and indeed the marine wind – it seems to you that this is not relevant – it allows at this time that, after ten years of being closed the doors of Astano Fene, today in Astano Fene there is activity, if they are billing more than 100 million euros, more than 1,300,000 hours of work, and that there are today more than 400 direct jobs working in these projects. And we will indeed continue, because Navantia intends to continue to promote marine wind and from the Government we will continue to support Navantia so that this may be so. And look, with all cordiality, for this government, of course, the development project of the marine wind is a pride, and this government is proud of the workers of Navantia. For this government, of course, it is a huge satisfaction that today in Fene is working and is recovering from its activity. So pride and satisfaction for the workers of Navantia and the auxiliary industry, who are currently taking advantage of an opportunity to complement civil and military construction and repairs with the development of offshore marine wind, despite the lack of support from opposition groups, and particularly from the AGE. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u489	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mr. Tellado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u490	Thank you, Mr. President. It seems, Counselor, that you don't know what a fleet is. Let me explain. The fleet was the ship that got this government, because the Government of Spain of the Socialist Party left Ferrol shipyards with zero contracts. That's a fleet, Counselor. The fleet was the ship that you came to Ferrol on 28 August this year and that other political representatives of this Parliament did not want to see, because it would be the finding that they had been lying for years. That was the fleet of Pemex that is being built in Navantia-Ferrol. Counselor, some people come here to say that you're worried about employment, and that's true, but they're actually just worried about their own job. They're worried about their own political survival, so they have to say that everything is wrong, because if they weren't to be sunk by that permanent statement of the claim. That's why they have to deny economic recovery now, because if no one would believe them. Everything's wrong, it's true that that's all your speech. But very quiet they were when the Socialist Party was ruling in Madrid and there were zero contracts in the Ferrol River. Those who are so concerned about the workload and the employment in Ferrolterra are the same ones who want to close the gas plant and stop their workers; they are the same ones who want to close the thermal power station of the bridges; they are the same ones who don't want the train to be made outside; they are the same ones who now oppose the marine windmill; they are the same ones who oppose the sanitation of Ferrol's stream and they are the same ones who now want to end the Holy Week. These are the same ones that don't believe in the marine windshield and don't want the yards of the Ferrol River to work. Of course, what we're going to do is support the governments who are looking for a burden of work where others have left poverty and poverty. From poverty and poverty, the speech of the demagogues who have never done anything by the naval sector of the Ferrol River, who have lived from the sale of prejudgments and ship conversions that have never converted anything. The true conversion of the naval sector is now living...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u491	Thank you, Mr. Tellado. Thank you, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u492	...by the hand of the marine wind. So, we, Counselor, what we ask of the Government...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u493	Thank you, Mr. Tellado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u494	...is that he continues to support this sector.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u495	Replica, Mrs. Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u496	Thank you, Mr. President. Counselor, I insist, I think you don't know what a fleet is. I insist. As the former mayor of the city of Ferrol has just arrived, you can explain. We are absolute competitors in R+D+i, that is, we have a university specializing in these issues and we have professionals of first magnitude just in this; and we do something wonderful, which is said of added value. This proposal of your fleets, which we share with Cadiz and the south of the Spanish state, is justly plated and painted. But the question, Counselor, is that you, with Mr. Feijóo in the head, today absent, promised 14 tugmen, 2 chemists, floating saying, dry and something else, and we have nothing, sir. You and Mr. Tellado told us that other governments left everything empty. What I know is that the state budgets now, recently approved, and yours, Counsellor, set zero euros for something as elementary as the naval sector, if for you it is a strategic sector. And when you're saying that you're going to be dedicated to making jackpots, it's not strategic. And they are at the service of a large company like Iberdrola, who had not – and I went to that training day, as you know, in which Mr. Tellado was not – and who just needed some facilities like the Fene yard. Second question, Counsellor. Direct jobs in the auxiliaries are 80, hey! And in Navantia-Fene, Mr. Counsellor, of a staff of 300, there are 260 people who have an average age of 60. What we want is an industrial plan, which is given to the workers in the county of Ferrolterra and, exactly, that we make boats, if for you it's a strategic sector. And since he first froliced with the defense of this state...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u497	Thank you, Mrs. Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u498	...I think it's pretty serious. And if you can talk to us too...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u499	Thank you, Mrs. Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u500	...of Andalusia, to tell us why...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u501	Thank you, Mrs. Díaz. You've finished your shift. [[Applause]] Shut up, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u502	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In fact, Your Honor, I am deeply sorry that when we come to the bottom of a question like this, you didn't seem to prepare it very well for this afternoon. Because the amount of inaccuracies that you've moved into your intervention is really worrying. [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] In any case...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u503	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u504	...you, since you didn't answer me, since you didn't answer the question that I moved you... [[Mrs. Díaz Pérez speaks words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u505	Quiet, please. Mrs. Díaz, please, let's finish the full! Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u506	...I hope at some point your group will clarify, after the interventions this afternoon, that anti-war position that has transferred your group to us and that proposal to create a sovereign army in Galicia, I hope that at some point I will clarify whether you are actually in favor of the military construction in Navantia or are simply taking a stand against General Julio Rodríguez, who have incorporated into his electoral lists. [[Murmurs.]] I think that would be good for them to clarify it. [[Applause]] Anyway, if you'll excuse me, I'll keep telling you about the inaccuracies that you... [[Mrs. Díaz Pérez speaks words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u507	Mrs. Díaz, call her in order. I call you by order, Mrs. Díaz. But we're going to finish the full, if it can be, in a normal way, because if I don't see myself forced to suspend it, it would be quite unpleasant. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Don't make me call you in order now. Let's finish the full. Go ahead, Counselor. Man, please, let's finish! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u508	The truth is that I am trying to speak with all cordiality, but this afternoon the interventions of the AGE Group are really far from peaceful. In any case, I will continue with cordiality. I will, indeed, give you the inaccuracies that you moved this afternoon. [[Murmurs.]] Look, the fleets are building in Galicia; none in Andalusia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u509	Quiet, please, Mrs. Díaz. It's impossible that this can be done. Let him finish. Let them finish and the time will make up for it; the time will make up for it. Don't worry about that bench either. [[Murmurs.]] Go ahead, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u510	I understand perfectly well, Mrs. Díaz, that you are not interested in talking about the naval sector. I understand perfectly well that you are not interested in saying that in Navantia it is actually being built and that construction in the shipbuilding sector was recovered with the fleet of Pemex, with the ship of maritime action, with the projects linked to the Monforte de Lemos and with the project of the construction of Suezmax, I understand perfectly well. I understand perfectly that you're not interested in offshore sea wind, I understand perfectly. But look, offshore marine windshield is assuming workload in Astano Fene, and I assumed, after ten years, that yard finally had an activity. I had the opportunity to visit Astano Fene last week, and what I can move you is that there's activity. I can move you to the illusion that the Navantia workers are working with, that the auxiliary industry is picking up the challenge of developing the marine wind. And, of course, this government will continue to support – as I tell you – not only the development of the Wikinger and Hywind projects, but all the projects in which Navantia is participating. I'm talking to you about inaccuracies. In the renewal of the smaller fleet, Your Honor, they are participating the Greek shipyards, you know it perfectly. And he also knows perfectly well that the alliance with Pemex has allowed Pemex to invest in Barriers and that he is allowing the consolidation, therefore, of this yard in Galicia. You talk to me about innovation. Again inconcretion, Mrs. Díaz, and ignorance of reality. I'm deeply sorry, I think he's, logically, more distant from Ferrol, but ignorance is really worrying. You should know – I'll tell you that Navantia and the University of Coruña have formed a joint unit to develop the yard of the future, the 4.0 yard, in Ferrol installations, which are investments...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u511	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u512	...orientated to process optimization...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u513	Quiet, please. Mrs. Díaz, Mrs. Díaz, I call it in order for a second time; a rather unpleasant thing to have to call it in order for a second time. And I warn her that, if I have to call her back to order, I have to expel her; which is also very unpleasant. Therefore, I ask you if you can finish the counsellor. Finish up, Counselor, as soon as you can.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u514	I understand perfectly well that the AGE is not interested in talking about the naval sector; that it is not interested in saying that at this time all shipyards have a workload in Galicia; that it is not interested in saying that Navantia has actually managed to be within the diversification; that they are not interested in saying that Navantia is working on innovation developments with the University of Coruña, where three and a half million euros are being invested with the support of the Galician Union. [[Murmurs.]] I also understand perfectly also that Mrs Díaz, who again comes to transfer inconcretes here, should know that indeed, in the development of the frigate F-110, 55 million euros are allocated for the development of cutting-edge technology linked to the construction of the frigate. You should know. As you should know, indeed, the development of this frigate is one of the priorities of the Government, which will logically enable this line of work to be consolidated and which requires this previous investment which is recorded in the budgets. When you want to talk again about the naval sector with a little ownership and knowledge, you'd be advised to review the points that are probably passing to you by the mayor of Ferrol, if you want to keep discussions with a minimum height. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u515	Thank you very much, Counselor. Question by Da María Carmen Gallego Calvar and four other Members of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, about the situation in which the commitments acquired with the residence of San Francisco for the maintenance of the squares of the center of Vigo
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u516	To put the question, Mr. Losada Álvarez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u517	It would be nice if I said, as usual, what it's about, but...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u518	Whenever you want, Mr. Losada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u519	Trust my ability to explain, Mr. President. I want to start by saying I'm not pro-war. I hope that the Social Policy Adviser will not be, either. Although it is true that when I listened to the leaders of the People's Party saying that we would not participate in the Iraq war, let's say that the issue of bellicism was a little puzzling. I want to begin by greeting the representatives of the Association of the Galician San Francisco who accompany us. Counselor, you've been in charge for a little while, relatively long. In connection with this subject, I probably attend one of the most boisterous moments I think the most bohorous was today, but one of the most bohorous moments – as a Member – and I've been a few years ago, which was when his predecessor accused us of throwing intellectual handicaps against it. We don't know who to win if you don't know what votes to vote. This morning I said that decent and decent governments defined themselves as how they behaved with the vulnerable and how they behaved with the powerful. It looks like the powerful are the presidents of MPs or construction companies that have jeriatrics and residences, and the vulnerable are unemployed or intellectually disabled women. San Francisco Centre is located 200 metres from my house, on Vigo Castle Avenue, one of the headquarters. I see, therefore, their users and families every day. And the place where Mrs. Mato and the German Government – in my opinion, absolutely indecently – intended to move these people is a place in the middle of the mountain, on a free road, no barriers, no channels, no night lighting, which coincides that there is also the way to my place of work, the way to Vigo University campus. So I know the two ecosystems perfectly. I know the ecosystem of the Doralta company, a company we call residual of that real estate boom in which everything was urbanizable and they were bought flats, because there was money to buy them, and that we all know how it ended up, that the Galician Union gave 1.5 million euros to build this residence. That's right, with a relatively important little detail, Counselor, and it's because he didn't have an urban license. It is true that the Town Hall of Mos and Tandem Nidia Arevalo and Mr. Louzán allowed a certain latitude. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Wasn't Nidia Arevalo? Was he from Cleopatra? Who was it then, Mr. Moreira? Who did it? Who gave you that license? It just gave me the feeling that, at last, there was some kind of psychosomatic disorder. Yes, it was Nidia Arevalo, and they know that. And by the way, Mrs. Mato also knew, and yet she gave that concession to that company. Because, as you know, Counselor Mato's concessions were...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u520	Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Losada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u521	...to four companies through some vote. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u522	Thank you, Mr. Losada. Response from the Social Policy Adviser. [[Interruptions.]] [[Murmurs.]] Let the counsellor answer.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u523	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I believe that, with regard to people in public-funded centres, we should not talk about certain things when the goal is to implement the commitments of the Government of Galicia in relation to a centre, in relation to three centres in the city of Vigo, specifically on the avenue of Europe, on Tomas Paredes Street and on Cangas Street. I say this in concrete terms, even though you know the orientation of the place you're talking to us about. Of course, what I can tell you is that the Social Policy Council has a commitment to all users, but it has a commitment to Vigo and it has a commitment to the San Francisco Association. This commitment is not from the councillor, this commitment is already a commitment from the Government. And proof of this commitment is the meeting this advisor kept with the entity, with Agasfra, in San Caetano this Monday. When I arrived at the Council I arrived with several objectives; the first, to listen, to many sectors, representatives, entities, where one of the fundamental problems was what was happening in this center, in the center of San Francisco, of the Agasfra entity. I want to tell you, although you haven't just asked me the question – I don't think you have asked me – to answer you and to give you an answer – about everything you already know, first – to the stakeholders, who are the representatives of Agasfra, that the Council of Galicia will collaborate in the launching of a pilot project focused on preventing the aging of people with intellectual disabilities, with the aim of improving the quality of the service it performs in Agasfra, through an agreement with an amount of EUR 341,856 expandable with other projects I will carry out in 2016. First commitment. Second commitment: to speed up banks. Nine, exactly, signed already, will enter the next payroll for an amount of EUR 156,000. And the detailed study of the need that moved me – and where I agree – to expand the number of squares according to the criteria set out in the current legislation, which I hope we can change soon.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u524	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mr. Losada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u525	Yes, thank you, Mr. President. Counselor, indeed, I don't give myself time to ask the question. It's in writing, anyway, and I'm sure you knew her. Look, I have no reason to doubt your word, I hope you actually will. Because, after Mrs. Mato's excruciation in her second intervention, she said something relatively similar to what you just said now. It is true that she also received the representatives, and there is a strict chronological correlation between the presentation of questions and receptions by counsellors, it is an empirical observation, Counsellor. [[Murmurs.]] You'll allow me to tell you that, when the questions are recorded, a week before the plenary session, in that interregnum between including it on the agenda and the plenary celebration, Mrs. Mato received and you received. Welcome to the reception! I insist, I hope you buy it. I hope you will abide by, because in the last municipal elections Mrs. Elena Muñoz, former councillor for this government, who jointly responds to all these obligations acquired by the leaders of the San Francisco Association, went there with Mrs. Mato saying that the issue was settled. That's right, it was right before the election. And he also said that, of course, that solidarity government would do everything. So, therefore, I hope that this time, that there are elections soon as well, if it is met, I hope this time, Mr. Counselor, if it is actually fulfilled. Because, I insist, treat people with intellectual disabilities with contempt and disdain that have been treated in this plenary session of Parliament by the head of the Greek Government on the subject... and if you bother them, I am very sorry for you and [...]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u526	That expression doesn't match. Withdrawal. [[Murmurs.]] Withdrawal, and let me talk about what we're talking about. That expression is withdrawn.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u527	In any case, I totally despise those people. Counselor...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u528	Thank you, Mr. Losada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u529	...if he does, he'll have our recognition.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u530	Thank you, Mr. Losada. Shut up, Counselor. Whenever you want, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u531	I've got plenty of time to answer. There is a commitment... that the lack of respect I see in this Parliament worries me, when we're talking about people who need all the help and all the solidarity. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] You should know the people who are very in need of our help in Agasfra to respect what we have to debate, and help us all to solve problems. If what we've seen here is insulting politicians to other politicians, instead of talking about users, about our social services, we're doing little favor to Galicia and the Greeks who really need it. [[Applause]] But, well, I said it would take a little time. There are commitments, I said three commitments. The first, an agreement; the second, the librations; and the third, the extension of squares that are needed. Three commitments. As we broadened Mrs Gallego's question, next week I will go to Vigo to sign the agreement and sign the commitments of this government.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u532	Thank you, Counselor. Da María Terêcesa Paz Franco, from G.P. of the Galician Nationalist Block, on the impact on the contracts of the owners of the measures taken in relation to the crisis of the milk sector
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u533	Mrs. Paz Franco has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u534	Thank you, Mr. President. The rural environment councillor, a little over a month and a half ago in Madrid, signed an agreement sponsored and sponsored by the Ministry of Agriculture, which was subscribed by virtually all the distribution companies, by all industry companies, by the representation of cooperatives and by a single representative producer organisation, by a single representative producer organisation. Because at that time, most producers, in addition, of Galician producers were mobilizing for several months to demand that the Administration lay down measures to regulate relations between industry and farms, to establish mechanisms for the construction of the price of milk in origin which took into account the costs of production and the remuneration of those production costs, and also to establish guarantees for the fulfilment of the contractual relations between industry and producers. Well, as I was saying, what they were demanding was this, and the September 23rd agreement, which you yourself have still a week ago in the Committee on Budgets qualified as a history, the glovers and the glovers already at that time saw that it would be absolutely useless to achieve any of these objectives. The glovers and the glovers were not mobilising, they didn't take three months with the tractors on the street, so they could be given a subsidy, which is also quite poor, by the Ministry of Agriculture. They were on the street demanding the three questions I mentioned earlier. And today, more than a month and a half after the entry into force of that agreement, that if that agreement was signed, the situation in the dairy sector remains as dramatic as it was before the signing of the agreement. The consequences of this agreement, Counsellor, are that the distribution actually went up the prices of about five cents, i.e., they went up the prices to consumers five cents, and that had no impact on the livestock but in the middle of cents. The conclusion is that, in spite of that, contracts continue to be signed down. In Galicia there is virtually no industry that has signed contracts above 27.5 cents, although production costs exceed 30. The result is that in Galicia the first buyers continue to sign contracts at less than 22 cents. The consequence, Counsellor, is that, according to the producer organisations' data, producers are lost, as of the year...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u535	Thank you. Thank you, Mrs. Paz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u536	...more than 36 million euros.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u537	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u538	What are you going to do about it?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u539	Thank you, Mrs. Paz. Reply by the Middle Rural Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u540	Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Peace. First of all, I want to point out that I'm fully aware of the situation by which they're going through our livestock, fully aware of it because the first-hand living, and it's a difficult set-up. It's hard as many others who have been through, but it's true that they are always the most disadvantaged, it's always the primary sector, and it's always the owners who have to adapt to the market. And right now we're faced with a set where there's a problem between supply and demand, and that's why we put all the means to try to solve the situation. A situation that's not from today to tomorrow, at all. On the one hand we have public means, and on the other hand we have means to order. And within what is management, I say again that the agreement signed in Madrid is a historic agreement; a historical agreement that will give its fruit little and little, as it is happening right now in France. The results went out yesterday. They signed it in July, we signed it in September. We went from 27.7 cents liter to 28.3 and that's not a great achievement. But, of course, if anything happened to this agreement, we stopped in dry the brutal fall that had the price of milk. At the same time, something very important happened: that the industries withdrew the contracts that went down. So I think it's a historic achievement from the moment we know that livestock can't go for free, industries can't go for free and distribution can't go for free, and there has to be someone who manages it and a guarantor. And that's the Ministry, and the Council will be watching. We hope that the price of a litre of milk will undoubtedly follow its rise and reflect in the next month. And from there they know that, within the agreement, at three months, the work entrusted to the owners will be published, which they have done and much, the work of the industry and the work of distribution. And so it will be made public and the corresponding measures will be taken. And within the measures, subsidies are not alms, but in sectors like milk we implement and provide liquidity to our farms. And we're talking right now that it's €45.5 million, 20 of them are starting to pay from Friday this week and the remaining 25 will start to pay from December 1st.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u541	Thank you very much, Counselor. Mrs. Paz Franco's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u542	Thank you, Madam President. The object of this question was not to talk about subsidies, but I just want to remind the advisor, that he was so proud to live the problem in the first person, that, as I know, no one, no owner, never told me that what they had right now the dairy farms in our country was a liquidity problem. What they have is a price problem, a problem that we're forcing them to sell the bed – you say – to an average of 28.3 cents the liter, when according to Rengrati, for farms and typical farms in Galicia, for their net yield, they should sell it at 35.1 cents per litre That's the problem, Counsellor. [[Murmurs.]] It is not a problem that is solved by credits to finance interest, the problem is solved by establishing market regulation mechanisms. Because you say there's already been a price boost and that's why it's a historic achievement. Look, we all know the seasonality of milk prices, and we all know that in autumn cows start producing less milk. And there's no more to see the delivery statistics to know that already in September, in the Spanish state, they dropped between 3% and 5% the milk deliveries; and that in Galicia, by the way, they dropped 14% the deliveries and yet that didn't impact the price. I'd like to know, Counselor, that you told me what are the mechanisms that moneywinners have to defend themselves against industries. What are the mechanisms the winners have so that in the fixation – or in the construction, if they like that word better – the prices should be taken into account when the production costs are remunerated. And what do you guarantee? What will the administration do when a pirate comes to impose a contract on a gainee? Do you have any mechanism, as a result of that agreement, to do it? And you say, Counselor, that you expect the promotion to follow. But why are you waiting? Why are we going to put some candles on some saint or...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u543	Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Replica from the Government. The rural councillor, Mrs. Angelles Vázquez, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u544	Mrs. Peace, the saint's is fine for those we are believers, but above all I don't know the story of all this coming after the effort that the gainers are making, and after the effort that they're making all sorts of associations. I mean, of course nothing falls from heaven. And those of us who live in rural areas and, therefore, our economy in part depends on that, we know that there's been a terrorist effort that's been done for a long time by the livestock. And it's true that if measures were put in place that are more than 10 million euros for liquidity, it's because the sector asked for it, that sector that should be better organized, and that, therefore, from this advisor and from this council will do its best to make this so. We can't go down the road by fracturing the sector, the sector will be strong when this sector is united, and what the organizations should do is to join and therefore sign the agreement. They're still in time, and they can do it. And they can do it because it's the best way of control, and that control is guaranteed by the Ministry, and that control is guaranteed by the Council. And so I can assure you that there is currently no contract on the market at 22 cents. We're talking about an average of 28.3 cents, which is not ideal for anything; but, of course, there's no one at 22 cents. Because the contracts come to me day after day, but they don't come to me, they come through a platform. And so the data we have is the real data, the institutional data. I wanted to say that you say they don't lack liquidity. But because they won't lack liquidity they're dragging for a while nothing prudential to the drop of prices consecutively! We will try to give more money to keep them liquid, but not just liquidity, because we have to go through other ways, such as market organization, market organization and also the transformation of our products. I think the time has come not only to talk about liquid milk itself, but to value our products, the best products we have. And the market is what makes the trend, from there they're being realized... [[Murmurs.]] Don't I know what happened right now? Hence, different campaigns are being carried out as "100% Galician", so our products become even more valuable. And that campaign is giving its fruit, and it's giving its fruit all over the cities. People want to know where their products come from, and they want to have identified the brand. And that's where we're going to go, we're going to follow the line of building structures, we're going to follow the line of competitiveness, and we're going to follow the line of transformation of our products, which is the best way to support our winners.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-11-DSPG129.u545	Thank you very much, Counselor. The agenda is run out, the session is up.
