ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u1	Good morning, ladies. The session is open. The agenda is published in the Official Gazette of the Parliament of Galicia, so it is not read. You have justified your inattentiveness today Mr Beiras Torrado. Before entering the agenda, a preliminary point is included, which is the promise or oath of the new Mrs. Noela Blanco Rodríguez. Promise or oath to abide and maintain fidelity to the Constitution and to the Statute for the Self-Government of Galicia by a new Member
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u2	In accordance with Article 7 of the Regulation, a request is made for the promise or oath to abide by the Constitution and the Galician Statute of the new Mrs Noela Blanco Rodríguez, who replaces Mr Manuel Vázquez Fernández. According to the procedure, the formula is to answer "yes, I swear" or "yes, I promise" to the question of this presidency. I'm asking you to answer the question I'm going to ask you. Mrs. Noela Blanco Rodríguez, do you swear or promise to remain faithful to the Constitution and to the Statute of autonomy of Galicia?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u3	Yes, I promise.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u4	The promise reached the full status of the Galician Parliamentary Member. We'll welcome you. Thank you very much. So we entered the development of the agenda with point 1 of legislative texts. Comprehensive discussion of the draft law on the financing of political training and related foundations and associations
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u5	This bill has been amended by the full return of the Joint Parliamentary Group, the Group of the Galician Nationalist Block and the Group of Parliamentary Members of the Left Galician Alternative. For the presentation of the bill, the Vice-President and President-in-Office, Public Administrations and Justice, Mr. Alfonso Rueda Valenzuela, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u6	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. Today, the Council of Galicia presents in this House a law that comes to honour a commitment made here by the President of the Council during the debate on the state of autonomy of the year 2014. From this debate you will remember that, among other things, a motion for a resolution that literally urged the Union to promote an agreement for the financing of the restricted parties to the funds that were made in public budgets and to the comings of its affiliates and public offices. We believe, therefore, that this was a matter where we could join together, because there were certain similar pronouncements by various public representatives earlier, beginning with the President of the Board himself, who in January 2013 had already stated in an interview that it was necessary to change the Party Financing Act. Also what at that time was the leader of the opposition at the national level, Mr. Rubalcaba, in February 2013 proposed that companies could not offer prayers to political parties. And a month later – not to mention any more examples – Mr. Cayo Lara, leader of the United Left, defended in Congress the intention of his group to limit prayers to political parties. As a result, this coincidence between different political forces with different opinions on other matters led to this proposal presenting the resolution, which was adopted and which then caused Junta to start working in that direction to comply with it and its content. Thus, in November 2014, a month after that debate on the state of autonomy in which this motion for a resolution was adopted, the Board of Trustees agreed with the Advisory Council on the drafting of a preliminary draft law regulating public subsidies to political parties in the field of autonomy in a single text, which also addressed the scheme of grants to foundations and associations associated with these political parties, and which also dealt with, in so far as they could do so from the scope of autonomous competences, the perception of prayers by legal persons. Thus, after an intense two-month study and report section of the Advisory Council, the full Council gave its visa and enjoyed a text of this preliminary draft at the beginning of February this same year. And I would like to take this opportunity to thank, first of all, the members of the Advisory Council, both of the advisers themselves and of the staff who participated in the preparation of this preliminary draft by the Board of Trustees. I think it was a job that came up with a very complete text, very appropriate from a legal point of view and very technically careful. And so that's why in the administrative process that took place at the Galician Summit there were only changes added, there were no allegations from the councils, there was no repair of any of the legal advice, and only some precisions detected by the gender impact report were introduced. So I've already said that the proceedings were fast and, in less than a month since its elevation as a preliminary draft by the Advisory Council, the text was already forwarded to this House in the form of the bill we are going to discuss today. This is therefore a proposal from the Consultative Council on the moment when the groups approach their proposals, in this parliamentary procedure, with the intention to achieve a text which has the greatest possible consensus, which affects us all; in addition, the political groups will ultimately be the recipients of the forecasts contained in this text. It cannot be obvious that the processing of this bill coincided with the parliamentary process and subsequent approval, in March of the same year, only two months ago, of a reform of the State's basic rules on the financing of parties, with which the text I think is especially appropriate now. It is true that these basic regulations are already gathering some of the requirements that are collected in the current text of the bill, whose drafting has begun before, and even several of the proposals put opposition groups in the formulation of their amendments. But it must also be said that this new basic legislation is no less necessary, as I said, this text, but quite the contrary, I believe that it comes with special opportunity so that in this parliamentary procedure the groups can adapt to this legislation the circumstances of our autonomous community and that they can work on it to introduce new demands, new mechanisms of control, about the political parties in Galicia which are complementary to the provisions of state law, of obligation to comply with, and more appropriate to the circumstances of Galicia. I would also like to highlight some of the new aspects that this text comes up with with regard to state legislation. For example, a scheme of incompatibilities is introduced for the appointment of candidates administrators, who do not exist in the basic law. This bill prevents, for example, people incur legal incompatibility by passive suffrage to occupy these types of positions. It's a proposal from the Advisory Council that we have seen from June and that we ask the groups to take into consideration the novelty of our law. This project also, as a novelty to basic law, introduces mechanisms of greater control in the electoral finances of the Greek political parties by requiring that all funds intended to meet electoral expenses should be entered directly into the bank accounts enabled for this purpose. For what? To make it easier to control the origin of these money that the parties receive, which cannot come from opaque transfers from other accounts but must always enter as direct income on these specifically enabled accounts. It also applies as novelty and for the first time to the Welsh elections a warrant of transparency, which was already in the LOREG but which applied only to the electoral processes when there are general and municipal elections. Well, now it is also obliged that, both financial institutions that grant credits to parties and companies that are hired for election expenses, should also respond to the Board of Auditors when we speak of the elections in Greece, which was not legally binding until now, only – I insist – for municipalities and generals. It is also stated that the electoral grant cannot be abolished until the Board of Auditors certifys that the requirements have been met. It is true that parties are allowed to request advances, but there is a need for guarantees that, if the supervisory body does not finally authorize the grant, the Administration, the Autonomous Community, may recover this money which has been advanced. And it also makes a very specific regulation of the regime of foundations and associations linked to the Greek political parties. In this sense, control by the Board of Auditors of the use these foundations make of subsidies received by the self-employed public sector. This control is also added to what the State Court of Auditors has already done about the donations received by these entities and their annual accounts. And it is also necessary, in a very clear way, that parties cannot receive prayers from their own foundations and associations linked to end all sorts of suspicions about the possibility that the smaller restrictions on foundations with respect to control could not be used to be indirectly financing the party through their own foundation. This will no longer be possible, for not only the controlling agencies must certify that the funds they receive these foundations are used for appropriate purposes, but also the possibility that funds entering through a foundation can be derived from a party to meet expenses of any kind, whatever. I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that these are measures that we can all or should even agree and that it is worth discussing, and it is worth, of course, improving the parliamentary process of this bill. I say that these are complementary measures to those established by the reform of the Basic Law on the financing of parties driven by the Government of the State, measures we all know already; for example, the total prohibition of debt concessions by credit institutions, the total prohibition of donations of legal persons, the limitation of the donations of natural persons to 50,000 euros a year, compared to the 100,000 which have so far been envisaged, and transparency and publication of all prayers greater than 25,000 euros. And so, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that between the installation of own measures that makes this autonomous law and the adaptation that must be made of the measures derived from the basic law, I believe that the processing of this bill is a good opportunity to consolidate a normative corpus on the demand and control of parties' finances as it did not exist until now in Spain or Galicia. No doubt you can go further, of course. You tell me that from the opposition there are proposals for restrictions on other types of donations or requirements for parties to be able to receive them. This is the time to debate them and, if necessary, incorporate them into the text. I believe that these proposals are also worth studying, discussing, and that is why I make this call to try to consensualize, as far as possible, a text which, I insist, will affect all of us from here on. I think this text is in line with the demands of citizenship. I understand that some of the amendments to the whole text are made – or so they say in the amendment – because they are not betted by an eminently public funding system. Well, I have to say that exactly what comes from this bill is precisely an eminently public funding, through these two possible avenues of grant, each with its corresponding monitoring and monitoring mechanism to extreme guarantees. What is derived from this bill and from state policy changes is a significant decrease – that's also true – of the role private donors can have in party activity. I believe that these are the objectives that were intended and the words of the leaders of the political formations I mentioned earlier, and I think that in any of those who could speak on this subject, I insist, of the whole parliamentary arch. I would like to thank the Socialist Group for its position in this respect, which did not, at least, amend altogether. And I believe that this positive willingness to work – or at least so we take it – can facilitate that consensus to which I referred earlier on a text that – I say it again and I say it as often as necessary – will affect everyone. And with regard to the groups that have tabled amendments to the whole, the other groups of this Parliament, I want to think that the presentation is done not from an effective point of view and to seek merely a confrontation between parties in this House but as an initial position, even if it is as a manifestation of intentions, but then trying to reach agreements on amendments once this text enters the normal process, if it exceeds – I hope it will – the vote on amendments to the whole. Of course, our responsibility as legislators, ladies and gentlemen, is to act to provide us with tools that enable us to prevent, solve and react to any issue which, with regard to financing, could be given to parties in the future. That's what this bill is going to be for. That's what you've worked on before the Advisory Council, about which you're going to work now this House. I believe that this text, along with the basic state legislation, should close a set of rules on which there could be no doubt. And from the fact that there are no doubts, there can also be no doubt about the punishment and persecution of anyone who violates such a sensitive issue, about a question that citizenship demands that we be inflexible, that we have clear these things and that we act accordingly. The German Government has done so with this task, and now it does so by presenting this text to this House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u7	Thank you very much, Vice President. The role of defence of amendments to the whole and position of the bill. The Mixed Group has the word Mrs. Consuelo Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u8	Thank you, President. Good day to all and to all We are faced with a bill that is no more than propaganda that PP uses as a screen to hide reality from ordinary people, though, in view of election results, it seems that this reality is difficult to hide. When at the PP in Galicia, Madrid, Valencia, Castile-A Mancha and throughout the wide and high state, the illegal funding of the party and the electoral campaigns was discovered and refused to assume their political responsibilities, we came with the resounding Bill of Financing of Political Trainings and Related Foundations and Associations. The Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office included in his indictment a detailed account of the illegal financing of the PP through a box B hidden from the tax office and the Court of Auditors, which worked for at least years. The Prosecutor maintains that Luis Bárcenas, the PP treasurer, incorporated into his assets resources of the People's Party, whose administration had been entrusted as manager along with the former treasurer Lapuerta, between February 1993 and June 2008. These funds came from a box B that administered Basel along with the party's then treasurer, Alvaro Lapuerta. The funds that supposedly stole Baseles and entered into open accounts in the State and Switzerland came from the parallel accounting of the People's Party. This parallel accounting – according to the prosecutor – would be nourished by donations that would violate the rules of financing political parties and that were made by persons related to entities benefiting from important public adjudications. But the thing remains not only in the Bárcenas and Lapuerta, but it has already come from Naseiro, and, if it had been little, it is not the only reason open for illegal corruption and financing that the People's Party has; even the press has to use paintings and diagrams to be able to follow up the cases of corruption and illegal financing of the People's Party, speaking, for example, of a payment in black money in Pontevedra that caused the embargo of a People's Party account, among many other corruptions. The Anti-Corruption Prosecutor claims 125 years of imprisonment and fine of 15.5 million to Correa, the leader of Gürtel, of the plot of corruption that colonized the People's Party from the end of the 1990s until February 2009, when Judge Baltasar Garzón finished his business. He also asks for forty-two and a half years for the Bárcenas and sentences of deprivation of liberty for the 41 processed in the first phase of the investigation. These include public offices of the People's Party, such as the former vice-counsel of the Presidency of the Madrid Community, Alberto López Viejo, former mayors of Pozuelo de Alarcon and Majadahonda or former national treasurers of the PP, such as the Bárcenas, Lapuerta or Angel Sanchis themselves, who have managed the party's finances for more than 20 years. Judge Pablo Ruz believed that the People's Party had a box B between 1990 and 2008 with which he had electoral campaigns, superseded to leaders and local reforms, including that of the headquarters in Madrid. The judge considers that there are solid and well-founded indications that the PP served during those eighteen years, systematically, from various sources of funding other than the legal economic circuit. Despite the resistance of the People's Party and the Tax Agency, the judge concludes that the opaque funds of the PP flowed to the edge of the accounting sent to the Court of Auditors and without the corresponding statement to the public estate; the People's Party's resistance to the destruction of the hard disks of the computers of Basel, guarded by the PP and on which there is an investigation opened by Judge Ruz. As for the Tax Agency, let's remember that you've come to claim that donations that exceed the legal limit are exempt from taxation, just like legal ones. In addition, the Tax Agency came to compare the People's Party with Caritas, to justify the tax exemption from illegal funds. Ruz rejects the popular party's thesis of assigning the system of black donations to Bárcenas, but rather to the People's Party itself. Throughout the car, expressions such as "the double accounting structure created by the People's Party", "a system of financing political formation" or "funds of the People's Party's Box B" abound. The Bárcenas and his predecessor Laportta the judge punishes them from the parallel accounting of the People's Party. In the entry section, details the contributions of the entrepreneurs, among those who stand out names such as Juan Miguel Millar Mir or Luis del Rivero, of Sacyr. According to Judge Ruz's auto, part of the black money entered – split, not to exceed the limits of the Party Financing Act – in the official donor accounts – 1.27 million entered –. Another party was destined to pay salaries and surpluses of people linked to the party. Other amounts have been used to help victims of terrorism. There are also expenses for election campaigns and for buying premises like Biscay's or Rioxa's. And, as it does not, Ruz highlights the EUR 1.55 million in B between 2005 and 2010 to reform the headquarters of the PP in Madrid. In his car, Judge Ruz considers the PP to be responsible for a tax offence for not paying the illegal donations received in 2008, and opens a [...] separate from the Toledo garbage collection contract, which, according to Bárcens, was the counterbalance for a €200,000 donation for the campaign of the President of Castile-A Mancha, Maria Dolores de Cospedal, in 2007. Ruz appreciates a crime of prevarication in this case. In addition, this bill does nothing but constantly refer to Organic Law 5/1975, of June 19, of general electoral regime, and regulates very often subsidies to the functioning of political parties in Galicia which neither existed nor existed. The problem of financing parties is the handling of money in black as a counterparty of favors in public concessions, and this is only solved by giving justice the means that PP denies it and broadens the deadlines for the prescription of crimes so that they do not continue to go out indemnity to the treasury of the People's Party, as has been the case since the time of Naseiro. The Anti-Corruption Prosecutor and the Tax Agency, in relation to the Gürtel case, issued reports that attributed to the People's Party of Madrid an offence of illegal financing through Fundescan, an opaque foundation of the party that raised hundreds of thousands of euros among businessmen close to the right, such as Gerardo Díaz Ferrán, Arturo Fernández or Antonio Basagoiti, who later paid bills for the 2003 and 2004 campaigns of Esperanza Aguirre. But one cannot act against those responsible, because crimes for alleged illegal financing, manipulation of documents, even a possible rocket, so the generous donors of Fundescan subsequently signed millions of contracts with the Government of Aguirre, have already prescribed. So the important thing is the legal changes that prevent these crimes from end up prescribing and, therefore, they end up imposing those who committed them. The bill runs away from taking on real responsibilities. Beyond this bill, the Government should demand and agree with the State the transfer of powers to general electoral systems, and make use of Article 152 of the Spanish Constitution, which states that the State may transfer or delegate to autonomous communities by means of organic law powers corresponding to matters of State ownership, which, by their very nature, are susceptible to transfer or delegation. Also make use of Article 10(f) of the Statute of Self-Government, to request the Government to adopt a bill on the subject when presenting a bill before the Bureau of the Congress of Members. Similarly, it could address the reform of prescriptions and penalties for crimes related to corruption; crimes that are not sufficiently punished, crimes that have a great imbalance with other penalties, common crimes of theft, often in order to survive, that are severely punished and that, in addition to being added – we talked about the other day of the prison competitions – they end up becoming permanent prison sentences, while the great thieves, the big corrupt ones, those who steal "white gloves", usually overcome outside the prison, or their penalties ended up being much lower for various aid provided to them from the State itself. For all the above and because we're not going to allow this law to be used to do a clean-up of the People's Party's face with regard to corruption, we're going to vote against this bill. We will be ready to pass a bill on the financing of political parties in Galicia when the People's Party is prepared to also assume election powers and claim powers to be able to govern, but above all we will be prepared to talk about political parties' funding when the People's Party clears its ranks of corruption and pays what [...] to all the citizens of the state; when they clear their accounts. [[(By order of the President and in accordance with Rule 106(3) of the Rules of Procedure, this expression is withdrawn from the Journal of Sessions.)]] So the People's Party will have enough credibility to present a bill on the financing of political parties. Meanwhile, the People's Party has a lot to tell society, it has a lot to tell justice and it has many years of imprisonment to pay for many of its militants and directors. For my part, that's all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u9	Thank you very much. Mrs. Martínez, aside from her references to the judgments, which I do not doubt, here no one... nothing until it is proven. So that expression I'm going to remove. Parliamentary Group of the Galician Nationalist Block, Mr. Jorquera.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u10	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, with this bill we have seen another chapter of the lift operation undertaken by the Government of Mr Feijóo, a lift operation which, in addition to this particular case, recalls the joke of Gila, I don't know if you know it: a person wanted to do an aesthetic surgery to take out twenty years, but, as the budget was not enough for him, he had to comply with taking a week. In this case we are the same, because first the President of the Board proposed in this Parliament a pact to ban company grants from political formations, and then the Council approved the so-called "Democratic impulse plan", which expressly collected, in its 8th axis, deleting anonymous prayers or legal persons in the financing of parties. After these far-fetched pledges, how do we find ourselves? By which in this bill no concessions are prohibited, the non-perception of concessions is simply established as a condition for parties to be able to access grants to their ordinary functioning from the budgets of the Union; grants to ordinary functioning, of course, that do not exist, and in which in addition to this project they do not even consider themselves to be created imperatively. Finally, Mr. Feijó missed his word again. In contrast to the announcer, no clear and severe restrictions are prohibited, no direct measures of public compulsion prevent these private incomes or mechanisms for clearing responsibilities and imposing sanctions on the non-compliant party. Failure to accept concessions depends only on the party's will, not on a coercive regulation applicable in any case or situation. In short, a new smoke curtain, a new distraction maneuver, removing empty proposals from the joke, lacking real content, to cover the lack of real, practical commitment from the People's Party, in fighting corruption. Look, you gentlemen of the Government of Galicia and the People's Party, will probably argue that this debate is over, since a state law of 30 March this same year, a law to which you have alluded, the Organic Law on the Control of the Economic and Financial Activity of Political Parties, has already suppressed the donations of legal persons to the parties. But the fact is that you in this bill do not contemplate the abolition of prayers. And besides, as the saying goes, whoever does the law cheats, because the new state law says there can be no prayers of legal persons to the parties, but to their foundations. The new law says that there can be no company grants to parties, but that it can talk about their directors or their shareholders. You can't just ACS or OHL, but Florentino Pérez and Villar Mir. The new law limits the donations of natural persons to a maximum of €50,000, but donations of immovable property which can then be immediately resold are excluded from this limit. That's why he said who makes the law makes the trap. But besides that, Mr. Vice-President and the People's Party gentlemen, it is not worth reforming the law if it does not succeed. Because, look, the B offerings were already illegal, the offerings of companies that hire the administrations were already illegal, and the papers of Basel and the investigations of the Gürtel plot reveal that the Galician People's Party was a central part in the alleged illegal financing plot of the People's Party at the state level. But it is more, now we know, following the revelations of Rosendo Naseiro's documents – the first treasurer of the People's Party – that the People's Party has been illegally financed since its foundation and that the People's Party in Galicia has remained a central part. Look, according to this information, even Manuel Fraga personally received illegal donations to fund the People's Party. According to this information – they went out in the press with Mr Naseiro's documents accompanying this information – Mr. Manuel Fraga won the 1989 elections, in which he arrived at the Presidency of the Union, making traps. The legal limit for campaign spending was 235 million pesetas. The People's Party declared expenditure for 199 million, but Mr Naseiro's papers show that the Galician People's Party received 500 million of the old Spanish People's Party pesetas to fund the campaign, and everything indicates that most of them were from illegal donations. So instead of lifting operations, the first thing you have to do is comply with the law and assume your responsibilities for having consistently failed it. But, look, going beyond these issues, the Galego Nationalist Block is in favour of the public funding of political parties – of course, with the complementarity of quotas, the contributions of militants and supporters –. As much as in the current times it may be unpopular in certain sectors to defend a model of financing that is mainly supported by public funding, we claim that democracy is expensive, but it is much more expensive to the absence of democracy. We don't cultivate anti-political and anti-party populism, history has taught us so much that it leads. We are therefore in favour of a model of public funding for parties, first of all, because it is the model that ensures transparency, and also because it is what ensures the independence of political training. Look, Mr Vice-President, in the extraordinary monographic plenary held last January, in our intervention we talk about the existence of a systemic corruption that has to do with plutocracy, by making the belt of transmission of the interests of economic elites, and we talk about the great corruption as the mechanism used by the economic power to influence public decisions for their benefit. For the dependence on private financing creates the broth of cultivation so that the policy of rotational doors will camp to its widths. Dependence on private financing favours parties that end up acting as simple belts for transmission of the interests of the large economic groups, of the large pressure groups. But it's possible to bet on a public financing model of the parties without this entailing more spending. And in this project, on the other hand, no measures are envisaged to regulate electoral activities more rationally, which absorb an important part of the expenditure of political training. It can considerably reduce the expenditure – by setting an example – by increasing the coverage of election campaigns in the public media, by establishing, for example, the obligation to hold and issue debates and that the broadcast of these debates is at times of maximum audience and also by establishing the obligation that public media broadcast interviews with candidates and candidates from different political training times. In this way, a stricter limitation of campaign expenses can be established, preventing parties from having to resort to over-advertising and advertising to disseminate their messages. But, moreover, that public media become the main broadcasters of debates and messages of all political formations would allow citizens who had access to a greater contrast to the various proposals and therefore a more direct knowledge of the different proposals. It can also reduce spending – by setting another example – by taxing the distribution of ballots and electoral envelopes by political parties and sending electoral propaganda by mail. The Board's own reports reveal that it's the main expenditure chapter. Simply – to cite another example – BNG's decision not to mail in the electoral campaign that has just been held meant saving the state half a million euros. But in addition to a saving measure, it's a democratic hygiene measure. The ban on mailing and distributing envelopes and paperwork by the parties and establishing the obligation to use the electoral booth would ensure the secret of vote and prevent tactics of control and pressure on the voter who continue to be on the agenda in many municipalities in our country. This bill also does not include exemplifying measures to punish captors, such as measures proposed by the BNG in its partial amendments, as it also proposes the savings measures I have just cited. What measures do we propose as an exemplar in order to punish the defaulters? That political formations should believe they are aware of the payments to the Fair and Social Security in order to access the grants. And, above all, that the payment of grants is suspended when judgements – even if not firm – are given where the criminal responsibility of political training or persons with responsibility in the management of their finances is declared, or when in the course of a judicial investigation precautionary measures are agreed against political training and those responsible for it. None of this, Mr Vice-President, is envisaged in this project; it is only a reflection of the pre-existing legislation. It's an adaptation to some precepts, even a copy, of state regulation. It contains no relevant novelty to advance in transparency that should be demanded of any political party operating in Galicia. We are faced with an erratic initiative in the approach and little ambitious, only addresses more profusely, but without introducing important news, the widespread economic activity in the electoral campaigns. Finally, Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, the German Government, with its President at the front, is again advertising a matter as sensitive as that of democratic regeneration to cover the people's lack of commitment and real action on this issue. This project does not address the substantive problems and, in addition, the Government of Greece, with its President in front of it, lacks the commitments made before this Parliament itself. These are the reasons why we present this amendment to the whole. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u11	Thank you, Mr. Jorquera. For the Parliamentary Group of the Alternative Galga de Left has the word dona Yolanda Díaz Pérez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u12	Good morning to all and to all. Mr. Rueda, the truth is, you were saying that you thought we were going to make changes to return in order to reach agreements on a subject that you consider sensitive. I believe that if the opposition groups – at least three – had not tabled any amendments to this proposal made by the People's Party, we would not only be wrong but we would be committing a serious democratic responsibility. And I say this because, without a doubt, the text that you propose abounds in the model that we have configured. Not only is it scarce, but it hides a substantial part of the problem of the regime in which we are living, of that regime that has the name of bipartisanism and that what is really about is a form of government in which those who are not sent to the elections, and they send through funding and send through a failure of controls that are not reflected in this text that you propose. I wanted to start certainly quoting one of the greats, Paco Fernández Buey, when I was thinking about the ethics of the collective. I believe that the text, the political proposal that should reflect the People's Party – a party whipped by corruption structurally since its birth, is allowed, not only from the People's Party, but from the times of Popular Alliance; structurally – without doubt, it should be to have that text on the table and to face the ethics of the collective from absolute transparency. And that glass wall, that wall that had to be diaphragm, had to be this political proposal, but, I insist, it's not done that way. I'm not going to insist on that phantom that goes through the People's Party, a phantom that appears with such serious issues – they seem to me, I don't know – how to buy or do operations with Mrs. Aguirre with a work – I'm sure she likes art very much, I'm convinced that this is so – for the modest price of 5 million euros. You'll understand that this is normal life. And surely this is not so and it is reflecting on other kinds of behavior, which, I insist, has nothing to do with the reality of what is being censored in our country today. Therefore, the ethics of the collective which is not reflected in this text. But, secondly – Mr. Wheel, I am sorry, I am singular – it is true that this rule, of course, comes without any consensus – unless there is something that this spokesman does not know – with other political formations, without a rigorous debate, despite the very scarce, diminished, that we have had with regard to corruption in this House, and comes up as today's proposal of the House's Rules of Procedure that you have just joined in the parliamentary debate. I say this because such tremendous things – reading it quickly – how to make a part House regulation that insists on cutting parliamentary groups, because, man, you will understand that, of course, it is not the right thing to start walking together. But we're going to talk about the text. This text is absolutely insufficient, it makes very serious mistakes – such serious mistakes... they are not errors, they are veiled intentions, that, as we are already older people... they will in fact prevent democratic regeneration in this country. The People's Party resists dealing with those who command it and therefore in this text, without any doubt, with regard to its own prayers, of course, it manages to address what are the most sophisticated formulations – this debate we already had in the Congress of Deputies – that have to do with just those formulas of financial engineering and that have to do with the absolutely powerful patients – who are there, of course, there – who are in public life and who are also ruling through that way of making reality. True and true, you are left with a part of the ban on the donations of legal persons, but it is true that by the imposition of state law amendments that you have made the opposition to the Congress of Deputies, such as incorporating donations of entities without legal personality and other nuances, but it is true that everything that has to do with the prayers that have to do with these entities that are the ones that are sent, of course, is not reflected in this text. Moreover, Mr. Pablo Isla – with all due respect – if he wanted to make a prayer subject to the limits of the county that establishes state legislation, he could do it calmly. In such a way that we would always be doing the same mechanism, we would always be feedbacking this system, which was the cause of a substantial breakdown and which is being questioned by the citizenry. But this text may still go further, it goes further, than it is claiming citizenship, and there is no democratic participation in the financing of political parties, not much less from foundations, and besides there is no internal control over what must be the functioning of entities, entities, absolutely relevant, of constitutional marches, such as political parties. The proposal you make is to act in the ex post, and they do it in a way that, of course, the Gaga de Left alternative does not share at all, which is with that reform of the Board of Auditors. It's not like we don't, Mr. Rueda. You quoted the Board of Auditors, we met with the employees of the Board of Auditors, before we discussed that rule and then, and of course, they're all less happy. To incorporate a section into an organ that – I insist – acts ex post, not ex ante, as it should be, and that besides they will not have the means they need, neither material means, nor workers in enough number to do so, is to continue to grapple with a problem that, of course, is – I insist – being questioned in these long years. But not only that, it is that it does not speak anything – I insist – of what must be that previous phase of what the Supreme Prosecutor of Justice told us of, which was the prevention of corruption, and prevention through a part that brings this rule to debate today, which is the financing of political parties. But it doesn't bring anything, it doesn't incorporate this norm, it doesn't bring anything new about what must also be a relevant part of political parties, which is the economic management of them. We have proposals, and they will already be debated, as to how political parties should operate economically, which bodies must have. They must also have absolute transparency with citizens and democratic participation of citizenship to know, really, at every moment that's happening. But there are such important issues as that, for example, they have to be managed by people we call "high honorability", and as you know, if you know the debate that was already held in the Congress of Deputies, we clearly define who these people must have that high honorability... that is, this case of those responsible, treasurers, the People's Party, in the democratic history of the Spanish state, does not happen again. We already know it's their individual responsibility – I say ironically – but it doesn't happen again. So that internal part of the political parties that you leave to account only at the Board of Auditors, and then at the Court of Auditors, of course it is absolutely ineffective, so this text, as it is, will understand that it does not bring anything at all. The external controls you propose, derived from the Board of Auditors, are ineffective. And not by the Board of Auditors, but because, as you wish, they will not be able to carry out that mission. I insist, that's what the employees of the Board of Auditors say. And secondly, in internal control too, what it has to do with this shift in partisan structures, what it has to do with the change that it has to have any normal citizen with respect to the management of a partisan structure, and even the militants of political organizations, without any doubt, there is no such thing. There is therefore an absolute risk in the management of political parties, without doubt. And when there are risks, you have to predict them and you have to attack them. This isn't in this norm. There's an ejacism that we fight, most importantly, with regard to its criterion of equality. As you know, it is so rude – I say rudely by the evidence of the text – that the funding that you propose is through the seats, by obtaining the number of seats, and not through the number of votes... You know that there, from then on, from article 68 of the Spanish Constitution to the standards we have of application of the Law of Hondt, will cause such brutal inequality as the Alternative Gaga de Left, in fact, may have 7 Members or whatever, but I am really sure that what is fair and what is equal is that it is pure proportionality in regard to the number of votes, which you – I insist – exclude. Therefore, it is less bad than the opposition that we tabled amendments to return and partial amendments, because this is to maintain the status quo that we fight. I mean, why does the People's Party have to be better funded than the Galician Nationalist Block or the Socialist Party or the Left-Galga Alternative? I'm saying it's going to be better funded because Hondt's Law awards the most winning parties. So, of course, we don't share it at all. But there are substantial parts that should have been collected in state law as well and not done. Why is it not prohibited to forgive debts to political parties? It should be in the frontispice of a democratic system, here it is not collected; nor is this, nor are there many other things. Let's keep going. As far as the issues that have to do with the donations that are received from the political parties are concerned, we can have an absolute transparency of a record of them, and we can evaluate who's giving amounts and so on. No doubt, it seems to me that it is absolutely common sense. Then a lot of questions have to do with advertising all the credits granted to political training, all of them the same. To know at all times what's going on, who has control over them. But also what reaches a model, of course, that we do not share. Indeed, this norm little less remains, as far as it is concerned to incorporate that prohibition of prayers, into a specific precept, without developing anything else, but does not progress in new matters, does not progress in what electoral campaigns should be. I know this is part of the electoral reform law, and I suppose that in view of today's reform of the House's Rules of Procedure, and in view of the election results, the Maria Dolores de Cospedal model will quickly enter this House, but of course there are substantial issues of equality, plurality, which are not reflected – I insist – in this norm. We also insist that, of course, we want them to be campaigns derived from the public, and above all, campaigns based on austerity. Mr. Rueda, if the people of our country knew what it cost these elections we just passed, they'd really put their hands on their heads. Let's say it honestly. So, of course, we need to move forward in funding formulas that have to be – yes – absolutely austere, austere and dignified. And, of course, avoiding mechanisms, which have already been found to be worth very little, and which would substantially undermine the political functioning of all of us. But the key, Mr. Rueda – and with this ending already – is that, when this proposal is brought by the People's Party, I think the substantial thing would be that the People's Party, too, the People's Party of Galicia – and it is not up to you, it's up to the President of the Galician Union – to come here and correct their policies. They looked here and asked for forgiveness from the Greeks and the Greeks. Because – I insist – you can accept the presumption of innocence!, I don't doubt it, but you know that a country in which ethics and political responsibility are so distant is a country that is not democratic. And I believe that, before discussing this norm – I insist – the President of the Galician Union would have to come and explain to us, to the Greeks and to the Greeks, what is happening in the People's Party. Indeed, when the judge Ruz speaks of illegal association – no more speaking in legal terms, I speak of the application of the dictionary of the Royal Galaga Academy...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u13	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u14	...or what you want – what you're telling us is that it's acting like a mob. And I think that when it works like an illegal association, so that I don't get the expression removed -- I insist -- you have to come here, give explanations, report, and then try to be credible. Of course, this proposal like this, Mr. Rueda, is not credible. So, less bad than the opposition parties, we tabled a refund amendment, and I think that if your intervention was the one that was in the first term, if you are concerned about what is going on in this country, the amendments that we have tabled from the Alternative Left Galicia – I don't say all, but some – are estimated. Because I'm sure a lot of them are common sense. We're not asking for revolution, we're asking to fix a part of the problem that's plaguing citizenship and is whipping and crushing the People's Party, which is being brutally sanctioned by the phenomena of corruption. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u15	Thank you very much. Non-amendant groups to set positions. Socialist Group. Mr. Méndez Romeo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u16	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen. Counsellor, the citizens cast their vote on Sunday, bearing in mind the results of the popular policies that you have brought forward, protected by the absolute majority of them enjoying in many institutions. The verdict could not be clearer and stronger: rejection. The result is probably unfair for many mayors who did an honest job. It's the same situation, but vice versa, which occurred four years ago. The truth is that citizens, with their vote, have valued the outcome of popular governments; essentially the institutions' response to the problems of unemployment, the problems of inequality, as well as the problems of combating corruption. Today it should be the beginning of a correction of those policies, also in the bill we discussed. The Union has nicknamed as a package of democratic impulses a set of initiatives from different sources and different entities, officially presented as a firm commitment to fight corruption. The texts so far known do not allow us to speak with that roundness, and rather make the campaign of partisan propaganda manifest. They only use – in the opinion of this group – to deceive themselves. They do not derive any firm action against the causes of corruption, which, of course, have not been identified in any text. Studies so far have shown us that the causes of corruption are often little known, both in administrations and in the field of elected powers. In the case of Administration: administrative contracts, staff arrangements, concessions, public procurement and urbanism. In the field of elected institutions: voluntary colonization, politicisation of administration and conflict of interest. The Union's initiatives do not analyse these problems or only touch these areas, they are limited to bureaucratic initiatives. It doesn't even seem that the Galician public opinion has high expectations about the texts they're proposing to us, or that they're being able to send a strong message to society of commitment against corruption. Basically because you've escaped from any engagement and any broad-spectrum agreement. They were unwilling to admit suggestions, make commitments, amend conduct, and therefore lay the foundations for ethical standards that had a high need. And that's how we get to today's debate. When all public opinion and also the entire academic doctrine cries out against the partisan colonization of institutions by the parties, you reinforce this colonization in the Advisory Council, where the presence of two relevant members of previous popular governments makes absolutely incredible any commitment to fight corruption. About three current members, like, Mr. Rueda? How will it be the Secretary General of the People's Party who controls the People's Party's Demons? Where did you see that? Where? Only in your dreams of control? Mr President, at present, of the three members in the Council of Auditors, only one is of a professional nature, which has been proposed by this group. You have abused the designation of a political character. How come they come to pretend they do something more than they're already doing and that that's unbelievable? But that's what happens at all. We're not going to waste our time now discussing Galician Media Law, three years paralyzed, and where you prefer strong control of the information policy of the institution to put in place a law that you've been willing to commit, which at the same time questions what value you have any political agreement with you in this House, if it's the guarantee that you're going to be violated and that we're going to be deceived. Of course, on the way you've already collapsed with the credibility of the medium, and here's the audience indexes, which even now question the efficiency of that company. The Socialist Parliamentary Group has not tabled a refund amendment to this text. We have argued on many occasions – and today again – that the basic rules for the functioning of the democratic system must be the fruit of a high consensus and must not be the subject of systematic confrontation. This is not the case with the Government's initiative. In abuse of his hexemony, they send a text to Parliament of what no one in the Government assumes paternity. They try to use the Advisory Council as the source of authority in the development of the project, a devious ardid that reveals the insecurity of the Government and the conviction that we are before a rule drawn up the party instance, in this case of the majority group that supports the Government. Ladies and gentlemen, the context of an economic crisis, with the systematic reduction of social spending and investment, is not the best time to open a new way to finance political forces. Because we are not faced with a global reform of the system, but with the establishment of a financial complement that the Union is interested in proposing at this time. I must point out that the recent reform of last March of the Party Financing Act meant a significant reduction in the electoral and operational expenditure of political organizations, which the Union now wants to modify with this project. His proposal is so devious that it leaves in the Government's exclusive hands the future funding of parliamentary groups and their control. And knowing the inconspicuous disgust that Mr. President of the Galician Council has by Parliament, we can foresee an even more restrictive scenario of freedom of expression, easy control – which is already limited enough – and initiative capacity. The project you present, Counselor, deals with two issues: a regulation of a new line of grants, similar to that existing in the state, and based on the authorization of the state electoral law, and an innovation with very few precedents in Spain. In fact, there is an exception in 2008 in the Community of Valencia, and a recurrent subsidy in the budgets of the Basque Country, through its Budget Law, which in this case probably comes from the special situation that the political positions there have experienced as a result of the terrorist activity in the past. It should be assumed from this observation that the rest of the project – the amendment of the electoral law – is merely covering a political decision difficult to explain at the moment before society. It is difficult to unlink this initiative from the allegedly wrongful financing scandals of its organization, from the many years of fiscally opaque financing -- scandal, by the way, which has not yet been explained by the popular majority -- and it seems that now, in the face of the difficulties in maintaining this opaque funding procedure, if you try to increase funding from public buildings. On the other hand, it regulates the functioning of the linked foundations and associations, which are virtually non-existent today in Galicia but which will undoubtedly grow from now on, because in this case, of course, the function of collecting grants will facilitate and make necessary the creation of the corresponding bodies. The project is said to have been prepared by the Advisory Council. Well, to be exact, it was prepared by two members of the same, who avoided their debate in the plenary of the Advisory Council. For the first time in the history of that organ, a debate of these characteristics was stolen from the knowledge of the plenary and was debated exclusively by a commission of three persons, one of whom was the former president of the board, Mr. Touriño, who made a particular vote contrary to the text, because in his judgment he violated the criteria of legal certainty, discriminated against the necessary equality of the rights of political parties and also substantially altered the Organic Law on Financing. I stress that this restrictive innovation in the functioning of the Consultative Council breaks up in the spirit of consensus with which it has been exceptionally approved, also by this group, the modification of that body and that, once again, as I said earlier, it questions the honesty with which you can propose any political agreement in this House. The list of deceptions, traps and falsehoods is too long. In this case, in addition, it is added that the Advisory Council has been operating in a precarious way for more than a year, with a vacancy which depends solely on the appointment of the President, and also failing to comply with the law, because the regulation of that body should be passed within a year and it has not been so. So today, the Advisory Council has abandoned any claim of independence to become a docile organism in the service of the interests of the president of the board. The vocals that do not correspond to their designation to this day are mere similarities in the functioning of that organ, something that has never happened in the history of the organ. You have colonized the Advisory Council, something that never happened before. The text introduces no innocent confusion with the subsidies that parliamentary groups receive. In fact, it seems that with this rule, funding for the majority group will increase by 18% to the detriment of the other opposition groups; one shows more – and many - of the unilateral alteration of the rules of play for their benefit. The project addresses an amendment to the electoral law, which has worked for thirty years without complaining of any of the political formations. There are reports of the Board of Auditors every election. Many precepts are now amended to introduce regulation, among other things, so detailed that it is inappropriate for a bill, which affects the regulation of political formations, subject matter reserved by law for the state legislature and which can open judicial conflicts. On the other hand, there are numerous references to the role of the Board of Auditors, which, however, has not even been consulted in the process. By the way, they promise a new reform of the Board of Auditors within one year. Hey, Vice President, do you know that a reform of that body is now under way here? So what's the bill you presented your group for if you're here announcing you're going to reform it again within a year? Why are we wasting our time here with these projects? Or are they trying to further strengthen the colonization of that organ? The project also introduces control obligations for the Electoral Unit, not knowing the actual media, the effective means available to do any work that goes beyond what is now commissioned. Mr. Counselor, they're many eves in the project, in their gender and in their content. The text could be improved in the parliamentary process, but in view of the amendments tabled by the majority group, too many hopes cannot be harbored in this respect. We're in front of an absolutist dictatorship. The problems that cause that text will be greater than their benefits and, unfortunately, it will be a controversial rule in the future, just the opposite of what is needed. For these reasons, Mr Vice-President, this text will not be able to count on the support of this group, at least in this initial vote. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u17	Thank you very much, Mr. Méndez. People's Parliamentary Group of Galicia. You have the word Mr. Pedro Puy Fraga.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u18	Good morning, gentlemen. Thank you very much, President. I believe that today the Government brings to this House a brave law, makes a brave decision, within a broad package of measures aimed at boosting our institutions and our democratic system, and at harmonizing the problem of corruption in our country. The question of financing political parties is key to the question of the prevention of corruption. As unfortunately we are seeing in Spain, certainly as we are checking for our own misfortune and our own outrage in the People's Party, but just take the Court of Auditors' report, the latest report by the Court of Auditors' Prosecutor's Office to see that it is all the political parties in Spain that have had problems with this issue at this time, and it is not necessary to take a look at the outside press to see what is happening in many countries both in Europe and in America about the financing of political parties. The problem therefore exists, and before that we can have two attitudes: one is not to do anything, not to change anything and use it electorally, demagoxically because as always, seeing the straw in the alien eye and not the beam in itself; or what we can do is also to act – and act vigorously – to try to minimize the corrosive effects that corruption has in our democratic system. And that's what the People's Party is doing. Since 2012 a law on the financing of political parties in Spain has been passed, two reforms of the Criminal Code have been carried out, and in Galicia we are also now considering reforming the Law on the financing of parties in the field of the Autonomous Community. Because party financing is certainly an important issue and is also connected with everything else. It is certainly connected with the possibility of opening paths to corruption. But it is also connected with citizen participation, because indeed, the quotas of militancy, the free contributions made by citizens who support certain political options establish a link between the party's leadership, which, if all funding was public because it would be much weaker; therefore, it also affects citizen participation and political parties themselves. It is obviously also related to the salaries of the so-called class of persons who hold public office and, of course, is also related to the capacity and relations of political forces, political parties, the rest of the State institutions, and in particular this relationship is very clear in the Court of Auditors or the Council of Auditors. And it's also related to electoral competition. Not as you usually say. There's an interesting study by economists Steven Levitt and Stephen Harper, who actually do an analysis of the thousand electoral confrontations that the same candidates had to be elected to the courts, in the equivalent, in the United States Congress. And they come to the conclusion that there are actually better results when there's more spending, but that's not a causal-effect relationship, and they demonstrate it by the fact that a candidate who increases 50% of the electoral expenditure only averages 1% of these 1,000 confrontations, only gets 1% of the average votes, and those who decreases 50% just fall their vote by 1%. So what's usually happening is that candidates who have options to win are funded and candidates who have no options to win are not funded, and on the other hand, it's completely logical and easy to understand. For all this, and under the premise that political parties are essential in our representative democracy, but that they are private organizations that generate public goods – ideas about good society and therefore proposals to improve the life of citizenship – that is why they require to finance their activities. And so it establishes this – this central role – article 6 of the Constitution when it points out that they are the expression of pluralism, essential for the conformation of the popular will and channels of citizen participation in politics. Well, being everything, no law – you have to start by recognizing it – is free of inconveniences. Normally, political parties can be financed by three legal channels and by one that is not legal: private donations, militant quotas and public subsidies. The fourth is what we try to avoid: the donations that are made aside from the channels established by the rules. The quotas of the parties know that, on average, in Europe, at most, they bring up a quarter of the resources of political training, and from there the debate is whether funding should be eminently private, there should be public funding or, on the other hand, should go to mixed funding. There were discrepancies in the committee itself, although there was also a clear reference to the fact that the best system was a system that was transparent, in which there were public aid to political parties and which was also restrictive with private prayers. I would like to recall, for example, what the former president of the Advisory Council said – a body we never criticised when they were appointed directly, did not participate in this House, but now it seems that some are committed to demolishing our institutional entrenchment by questioning everything. Mrs Pompido has made it clear that there can be political sympathy of a personal nature, but that anonymous societies can hardly have political sympathy, and that in any case what is required is transparency. Private funding alone has advantages: the involvement with society and of course the freedom that citizens have to support the ideas they believe in, but it has disadvantages: the contributing inequality of corporations is not the same as that of a citizen of the common and also the difficulty in controlling the donors of companies, when they, in addition, make up holdings and part of a holding company contracts with public administrations and others do not. This system, therefore, is based and operates in the United States and partly in the United Kingdom, in an Anglo-Saxon culture which, in addition, has another way of understanding what the underprivileged are and which certainly is translated not only in the field of political medicates, but also in all kinds of medicates, with a tax system that welcomes them and with a society that sees them well, even though the prayer is for the party that one does not support. The second option is direct grants. 70 per cent of resources in continental Europe come from this type of subsidies, and are based on the necessary independence of the parties, as well as on the nature of the public welfare of political training. They also have problems: the marked entry barriers, because they get funding from those who actually participate more intensely, because they have more votes in institutions. I, Mrs Díaz, want to remind you that the parties are currently funded by number of seats but also by number of votes; therefore, the votes are taken into account, and not just the seats. Obviously, this has a problem, which is the limit to expenses, which has to be paired, because if not, what you get from the public grant can be spent on it, but also on making more spending. Of course, care must be taken, and that's why it's good to keep the affiliate's quotas as a substantial part of the funding, so that there is no such disconnection with the bases, and you certainly have to control that there are no bumps on the edge of the system itself. The option you choose for this bill that is being defended today is mixed, but with a lot of restrictions on donations, it is embodyed in transparency measures and of course with exposed external control. If an analysis of how the general control of any form of crime works, the most important factor in the prevention of any form of crime is the certainty that one will be punished, discovered and punished if committed, regardless of the severity of the penalties. Therefore, to establish comprehensive, permanent control that all political forces know that they will have to pass establishes very severe restrictions to act ex ante in a manner contrary to what the rule establishes. This system, ultimately, is moving away from the American system, which you would call neoliberal, and this group and the Government, supported by this group, are betting on the continental system of public support and subsidies. It obviously has to do with everything we're dealing with: the law of transparency, the reform of the Board of Auditors, the regulations of recruitment, which is more demanding, and of course the reforms that are being done in Madrid. There are more extravagant ideas. Some people suggest, for example, that prayers be made to a neutral entity and that this neutral entity distributes them to parties without telling them who it was who did the prayer to the neutral entity. Well, I think this really wouldn't work. Professor García Viñuela, a friend of some congresses, proposes that funding be made always through the IRPF statement, but this, of course, also makes it difficult for many people who do not have the obligation to make the statement. And what they all suggest is that there is a self-regulation, that self-regulation is limited. That's why I think it's very good for the Advisory Council to prepare this bill, because it prevents it from being the Government and the group that supports it who prepares the text, which is done by an independent body. I, Mr Méndez, would like to remind you that the law of which you demand your compliance – and it does well – establishes that, when a study or report is requested to the Advisory Council, that report is prepared by the Committee on Studies and Reports and therefore does not go fully. So he strictly complied with the law. I, of course, respect the discrepancy of Mr. Touriño, though some of his discrepancies, as we shall see in the processing of the law, are unfounded. With regard to amendments to the whole, the spokesman for the Joint Group, in his amendment to the whole, said that this law should be dealt with in the Congress of Deputies and combined with a reform of the Criminal Code. That proposal is late. Financing has already been reformed and the Criminal Code has twice been reformed, among other things to establish the criminal responsibility of political parties – which the left ruling had not previously done – and to criminalize the crime of illegal financing of parties, by voting against the left, by the way. The deadlines for the prescription of prevarication crimes, cofiche, fraud, etc. are extended, once again with the vote of the PP and the vote against the left. And I also imposed the additional restriction in the Criminal Code on disability for the right of passive suffrage, which did not vote on the left either, by the way. And finally, it has been established that the suspension of the prison sentences imposed cannot be lifted without abolishing tax debts or social security debts or by reintegrating previously the grants or aid unduly received in the field of irregular financing of the parties, also by voting against the left. As far as the Block is concerned, I'm sorry that you think it's rickshaw. I appreciate the general tone of the Block's spokesman. And the only offer they make us right now is that of the mailing. Immediately, when you said that the Block had not done mail, there were rumors among the many candidates that my group had in the last elections. Of course, you can call it mailing or buzzing or whatever, but the Block distributes paperwork, like all political parties do and print them and finance them, I think it's something that's out of the question. The important thing is that LOREG, the state law, sets it up, and therefore we cannot enter that subject. [[Applause]] With regard to the AGE, which questioned the credibility of the People's Party, what I would like to see is that, in a cordial area of trying to improve this text, I would ask you to review your own credibility. You call for a ban on the forgiveness of credits; it's included in the state legislation; you voted against it. They ask for the release of all the credits granted and their conditions; it's in state law; you voted against it. You speak of the need to fight politically-entrepreneurship corruption intransigence, and in 2013 they put forward a bill against corruption that introduced some measures, for example raising public office disability from three to seven years; in the criminal code reform, the PP raised it from five to nine, and you voted against it. They asked to raise the disability to public office from three to six years; the PP raised it between five and nine, and you voted against it. They provided prison and fines for private entrepreneurs who encouraged the trafficking of influence; the proposal adopted by the PP not only includes this prison and that fine, but also prohibits the hiring of the public sector from six to ten years old; you voted against it. For political parties, they proposed restricting the donations of legal persons to €50,000 per year; the PP prohibits them completely; you voted against; and the motions for immovable property, which you mentioned – those that now seem so important to them completely – in 2013 you yourself asked to limit them to a modest amount, which was half a million euros a year. If your proposal, to vote in full, we get everything that is already approved or contained in the bill that comes to the House today, there's practically nothing left to criticize, there's nothing different. Well, there's one thing left, there's one thing left. What's left is that you ask for free access to public and private media. I don't know what the private media will think if you want to interrupt a program one day because you have to intervene a representative of AGE or the United Left. I think that, as the other spokespersons have done, circumscribing us to the public media is enough. I'm done. Here we're said to be trying to hide reality from ordinary people, that we're advertising, and even that we're being deceived.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u19	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u20	I think what's happening here is that it's you who're advertising, who want to fool the population and those who want to hide reality too. And the reality is that it is the People's Party, and not you, who is taking decisive steps to eradicate this kind of behavior, while you systematically oppose it, vote against even the admission of the process of these bills. And that's what people must know. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u21	Replica round of amending parliamentary groups. For the Mixed Group, Mrs. Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u22	Thank you, President. I'll start at the end of Mr. Puy's speech. The Criminal Code is strengthened: an offence of illegal financing, through pre-emption, a disability of passive suffrage, a prison which cannot be avoided by payment of debt, only with the votes of the People's Party. That's what he says, that's what he says. In a law that should build on a broad consensus, you are proud to say that only the People's Party has approved it, against all the world, and therefore without any capacity for dialogue, with no capacity for agreements. That certainly makes them pay the polls, as they did to them for their prepotence, their sovereignty, their only wish to do anything but what their party says, regardless of the interests of society and what the whole society that is not of the People's Party thinks, gives them absolutely the same. So, then, we have to listen to the People's Party when we lose to talk about dialogue and Rita Barbera says she's willing to talk about dialogue or Hope Aguirre wants to talk about dialogue, in good hours! The party of sovereignty, the party of sovereignty, the party that has structural corruption from the north to the south and from east to the west of the entire state, with open causes in all the courts of the country, and they just proudly say that they are the only ones who care to comply with legality and that there is no illegal funding from the parties. It's really incredible, it's incredible how much value they put into it. And much more than they come today to tell us that after Sunday's results. They should be clear that people, the Greeks and the Greeks are smarter than you think, and they know they're lying, and they know everything that's happening right now these days, with the law of transparency, the law of good government, good administration, all propaganda. They know that you are the kings of propaganda, and that they haven't offered anything to this people during all the years of their government more than poverty, unemployment, low wages, poverty, energy poverty, closures of school eaters, old people who come back from emigration having to pay fines to the Fairy, while the causes for illegal financing of the People's Party happen one after another. The first thing they had to do would be come here and explain, if they really want transparency and want to fight corruption, come to explain what happens with the Zeta operation, which has passed and what the implications are, which passed with Martial Golden in those years, which goes through with that money from the B-box of the People's Party that leaves Galicia. Why don't you explain all that and then we talk about what steps we can take to avoid it? You intend to get here as rescuers of decency. It's just that I really think it's outrageous, outraged for the people, who's been putting up with all this all these years. And much more when we keep watching how the media manipulate, especially the public media. It was disgusting to see the information of the municipal elections on Gallega Television, man! –I had to change chains –, ugly!...,
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u23	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u24	...because the People's Party didn't lose or win the others, the People's Party always won. It was tremendous manipulation! As it is disgusting to see the cast of votes of old men taken from the residences of old men, with the paper in their hand to go to vote. And you're talking about fighting corruption! Oh, my God! Please! Have a little shame and respect for the people. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u25	Thank you very much. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. Mr. Jorquera.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u26	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Puy, I don't know what Court of Auditors reports you mean. I know reports from the Court of Auditors that say that the Galician Nationalist Block is the political force throughout the state where in its larger finances they have the quotas and contributions of their militants and supporters and contributions from their public office. That is what is revealed from the Court of Auditors' reports. Secondly, as I know, the legislative initiative lies with the Government, which can present a bill to this House, Parliament itself or citizens through popular legislative initiatives. I therefore ask the Government of Galician Union not to hide behind the Advisory Council and therefore fully assume its responsibility when introducing this bill to this Parliament. Thirdly, and also in response to a reference made by Mr. Puy, who in the face of a problem you can do or if you can not do anything, I think there is another way that you are doing now: to do what you do, to do what you do, to do what you do, Mr. Puy, because – I insist – you say that they bet by public funding in this bill, but it is not reinforced by public funding: talk about the possibility of a new line of financing to the ordinary functioning of the parties, but it is not created in a taxative manner; leave to the discretion of the Board of Galicia – because even parameters and amounts are defined – to incorporate this when the House remits the Bill of Budgets. But in addition, I think we are all aware that we live in a context where society would not understand that this new line of funding for political forces is created if they are not accompanied by savings measures. And that's why the Galego Nationalist Bloc, among other proposals, because through partial amendments we have made more proposals, we have also incorporated savings proposals so that the establishment of a regular funding line for parties does not entail greater public spending when supporting political forces. We have a philosophical discrepancy – I think at the bottom – about which is the genesis of corruption. From our point of view, most of the cases of corruption that we are living in, that we are suffering and that scandalize society, have their genesis in trying to influence pressure groups, economic groups, in making public decisions for their benefit. That there are parties very dependent on private financing creates a broth that favors that. But that's not the main cause. The cause or attempt to influence these pressure groups is also the reason that there are parties that assume as natural, depending on their ideal and the interests they serve, acting as transmission belts of certain pressure groups. So let's not simplify matters. And one last question, though it's total and absolutely tangential. What was said about BNG distributing paperwork is that it reminds me of the famous cartoon of Castelao where two boys were playing football, one had boots of regulation, the other, because he had no means, he was barefoot, and told him what he had boots of regulation: "and remember that it's forbidden to kick." I mean, do you guys want to be able to distribute paperwork and we don't share it? But look, we didn't do mail, we gave up doing mail. [[Murmurs.]] That's one thing and another is the distribution of papers to citizens, not through the sending of electoral propaganda by mail. But look at you, in any case, we don't have stupid debates. [[Murmurs.]] If this is to be done, the Galego Nationalist Block, through partial amendments, prohibits taxively that political forces may distribute envelopes and paperwork and proposes that the sending of electoral propaganda by mail be prohibited. They vote, when we get to the partial amendment phase, in favour of that amendment of the Galician Nationalist Block, and the problem is over. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u27	Thank you very much. For the Parliamentary Group of Alternative Galga de Left has the word dona Yolanda Díaz Pérez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u28	Mr. Puy, the truth is, I think it ended in a rather unfortunate way. I think you guys have a serious problem, you have a serious problem, and that's that reality, people don't act the way you're used to acting, people have democratically rebelled, voted. And as much as you say here that this is magnificent and that the People's Party is an example of decency and so on, you're upset because you don't believe people. It's all set up, Mr. Puy. I believe that you here, who are a serious man, should raise this question with the gravity you deserve, because I want to ask you a question that I have for good, surely you will answer me, and also Mr. Rueda: are you worried about what's going on in the People's Party? Yes or no? Or is it a minor thing? Yes or no, this is the nuance that I want to incorporate into this debate, because it would seem extremely serious, of course, that we are talking about this proposal, indeed, in the middle of political parties' funding when the underlying cause is beating up here. Are you worried? Yes or no? We know that yes, even if they don't say so in public, because the leaders, through the back door, say so; they'd be crazy if it wasn't. If you're worried, are you going to have the decency and the public rectification to come here and give an account? Yes or no? Let's stop playing games. I mean, this is the debate. And besides, without any accuracy, that is, if they want to start over and change reality, they start to do it, because it's all set up, and this art, of the political lie suite doesn't work anymore. This is what my friend Manolo Monereo says: they have a problem with you, they have a problem, they're ruling, they're looting people with corruption, against people, and the problem is that they don't vote anymore; up here they've endured citizenship, the problem is that they've now stopped voting and now they have to solve it. Indeed, this rule does not contribute anything to the text that has been adopted in March, by the way, a text that has been adopted in March to which they have been drowned, eh!, drowned; it was such indecency that there was in the State that, of course, Mr. Mariano Rajoy had something to do, something he had to do. Indeed, the formations on the left of the whole of the state we voted against. Why? Because it is insufficient, because it is an absolute exercise of hypocrisy, Mr Puy; of course it is an absolute exercise of hypocrisy. If you don't believe what you're doing, you don't think everything has to work as it has so far, and it's not like that anymore, Mr. Puy, you have to open the windows and incorporate it into the norm. You appeal to the Court of Auditors, that Court of Auditors for certain – not all political parties are equal – which seems like a Popular Party placement agency, eh! I remember: Court of Auditors... of course, yes, yes, sir, I don't say that, is that this is a reality, and if you see the deposit tree of the Court of Auditors, man!, it's an organ that doesn't enjoy legitimacy, actually, no. [[Murmurs.]] I mean, that controlling us or controlling the People's Party is a joke. By the way, Mr. Puy, look, I have here the amendments that we tabled in the Congress of Deputies, you have not said the truth – by the way, amendments that also have to do with the Court of Auditors. They didn't accept one, uh, they didn't accept one. But I'm going to read some of them. For example, to see that I do not lie to you, page 61, Article 4(2)(b) It would be written: "Political parties may not accept or receive direct or indirect donations of immovable property." Sum and follow, all like this, Mr. Puy, they didn't accept one. So you will understand that, when this is so, a political party that takes seriously what is happening in the Spanish State, in fact, will vote against, and surely regrettably, because we believe that things in a democratic society should not be done that way, frankly. And I hope that in the debate on individual amendments they do not act that way, because they act that way, we're going pretty bad. I mean, if the proposal is to pass the knee, as they usually do in the debate of partial amendments, well, we are avid! More questions, indeed, in terms of course, of what they do not want to correct, I know, Mr Puy, indeed, would only bother that the funding had been in respect of the subsidies around the number of seats and without taking account of the number of votes, but what we are proposing – and we have agreed on the left here – is right through the number of votes, because inequalities are gross, Mr Puy, and of course we are supposed to be all and all of us equal here with pure proportionality. I know you think we're here loan, that this space doesn't belong to us, I know that that's right, yes, Mr. Puy. I remember perfectly when AGE took possession, you made a statement – which is in the hemerotheque – said:...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u29	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u30	...if we are democratic that even the communists are in the Greek Parliament. This is in the press. So, we're loaning, you think this is your home and you can do whatever you want. You said so. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] If you straighten it out, well, the press picked it up wrong, but if so, just rectify, that nothing happens.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u31	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u32	However, we hope that this debate will be taken into account and seriously, and some of the amendments that we propose will be taken into account. I join Mrs. Martínez in the Galician public television scandal, paid with public resources, with that board of directors where we still don't know what it costs, we still don't know what it costs, because, of course, seeing the information on that television was to start crying, not laughing, to start crying. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u33	Thank you, Mrs. Díaz. [[Mr. Puy Fraga asks for the floor.]] Yes, Mr. Puy, what do you want the word for? You can proceed, so that you can always correct. [[Mr. Puy Fraga pronounces words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u34	I think you said something that is frankly incorrect and invites me to correct it. In that debate the spokesperson for his group, who is not accompanying us today, said that this Parliament was a franchiseist, and I said that this was offensive to the memory of the people who, like the militants of the Communist Party, fought against franchiseism and were sitting here today. So I respect you, because you're representatives of the people, the same way I ask you about us, because we're just as representatives of the people you are, and for now a few more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u35	Thank you. Debate taken into account by the G.P. of the Alternative Glaga de Left, reform of Law 1/1993, of 18 April, of protection of domestic animals and wild animals in captivity.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u36	For the presentation of the bill, Mrs. Solla has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u37	Thank you. I'm sorry, I thought it was time to respond to the previous initiative. First of all, I wanted from this gallery to bless the tides and popular unity movements for the success of municipalities. We are very proud, and those forces and those movements are movements that have been declared in their programs and in the work that they have openly made animalists, also in the Coruña, where success is that it was remarkable, and they are openly or so manifested with anti-taurine measures. And, therefore, anti-taurines and animalists have won a little too, and today it's also a reason to bring and support this bill. Last year we presented a proposal to amend a law, which is the Act of Domestic Animals in captivity, a proposal that went ahead and we managed to get it passed in September 2014. At that time, it was approved the tightening of the penalties for ill-treatment and the mandatory prevention of ill-treatment and the abandonment of campaigns, since the Administration, which have suffered precisely the fines themselves for animal abuse. From the Gaga de Left Alternative – which we transferred the will of the animal groups – we considered then that the priority was to promote a legal change that included the prevention of ill-treatment, was the most important. We therefore try to avoid the dissensation and reach – as it was – that amendment or that proposal was approved. But it is up to us to address a change of the Law which covers this shameful practice, still supported by it, of legal exceptions that acubat practices of animal abuse and torture; these practices are, essentially, shooting at the Pombino and the tournades. Shooting the doll is an activity where wealthy people have fun shooting and mistreating pigeon cubs that are previously cut off their wings to make their flight difficult. These rich beats are mainly organized around the Casino da Toxa and the animals are brought into cages, for the occasion, by means of transportation; dolls that cut their wings to make them more clumsy, make their flight difficult and therefore easier to shoot. The animals are released on the flight and scrambled for enjoyment and enjoyment by the gentlemen. Some pigeons die at the moment and others perish after dying on the ground. The second barbarity is the tournas, where bulls suffer all sorts of atrocities, cuts, lacerations... which have already been exposed precisely in the last debate we had in this House on the subject. First, by stabling a spear in the back that crushes several muscles, it cuts blood vessels and nerves, it causes obvious pain and hemorrhage in the animal – it has been described here on the previous occasion – it's the pull. The flags have the purpose of pursuing this bleeding: they fall on the back of the animal and often twist and tear because of the movements of the bull itself. The animal is slowly getting tired of pain and obviously bleeding, blood loss, and in most cases it already has several affected muscles and nerves that prevent it from moving normally. It's at that moment, with the animal heavily wounded and disbanded, when exactly the bulldozers meet in front of the square with the hood. A posteriori this lord, the bully, holds an 80-centimeter sword to the bull that often crosses several vital organs, breaks muscles, tendons and blood vessels, is stored. The usual thing is that the bull bleeds and drowns in its own blood, fills its lungs and pops out of the animal's mouth and nose. If he's still alive, he's stabbed with the decab and also with the dot, sectioning his spinal cord. They are sometimes still alive, but paralyzed by the section of the cord; they are later dragged across the floor when the bull is over. I couldn't, we couldn't, do this to a dog, to a sheep, to a cat or to a pig, but if you can do it to the bulls. This exception makes no sense, it's a legislative abnormality – part of a barbarity – and it has no scientific basis or social basis. No tradition, obviously, justifies abuse, torture and murder, and in Galicia there is not even this tradition. The groups discussed this subject at the instance of a BNG initiative in 2013 when they and they brought this proposal to amend their own Law. And because of that then the lack of argument in the People's Party – the only ones who voted against by themselves – led us to say that, since there was so little affection, there was no risk of increasing the towers and therefore it was not necessary to prohibit them. An excuse like any other and which is not understood in any way; a barbarity as could be said to be that, as there are few blood crimes, there is no need to prohibit them. The reality is that, according to the Ministry of Culture's own data, 99.2% of the people of Greece and Wales do not interest us at all anything, that the number of tourists has been decreasing in recent years precisely because of this lack of social interest and, therefore, the only people who may be interested in maintaining the law are the very entrepreneurs who profit from this torture and little more, four more people. You can't legislate, therefore, to favor a minority, but the laws must obey the will and feel the majority of a people. And our people are, basically, anti-taurine, as precisely corroborate the surveys and as corroborate anyone you can consult. Our laws, therefore, cannot contain the exceptionality that allows the atrocities that I have just described earlier. There are many ways of having fun and animal torture cannot be one of them. There are many economic niches and productive sectors, torture cannot justify a business. There is a lot of cultural wealth – which, by the way, is abandoned in our country – and this one is not rooted in torture, torture is not culture. Today Galicia asks them to no longer support animal torture, this initiative that is being transferred to us by animal groups is backed by the signature of 260,000 Greeks and Greeks. If the people are the ones who command them most, please let them hear them at once and end with legal torture, which is torture in the towers and shooting at the Pombino. Nothing else for now.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u38	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. Joint Parliamentary Group. Mrs. Churches.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u39	Good morning, ladies. Thank you, President. The touradas, the Taurine festivities in general, are incomprehensiblely still very common in the state and, on time, in Galicia. And this despite the fact that the number of amateurs has declined in recent years, the fact is that they still have the economic support of local and autonomous administrations. Especially serious is the impact it can have on the mental and ethical development of girls to contemplate images of tourists because public and private televisions continue to broadcast races in children's hours, transmitting negative values to viewers, free violence, contempt for alien suffering, animal abuse, torture... In a world controlled by the human species, responsibility must already be established for domestic, wildlife and also wild animals, and their needs. It is essential to promote a culture – it is always very important education – and a legislation that regulates the rights of animals. Progress, peace, education must come together in harmony with respect to other non-human species that are part of the same nature that we relate to. The positive shift in attitude towards animals as non-human beings is closely linked in this respect to every kind of life and, by extension, to the whole planet. The continuous tyranny that the human being exercises on animals manifests itself in many ways that anyone can contemplate day by day. But perhaps one of the most repulsive causes in a sensitive person is the Taurine spectacle, a spectacle in which one is tortured and abused by a defenceless being with the complicity and convolence of the highest instances, of the media and of that public that applauds and cheers – among which it is not unusual to find public patrons who should consider the image they are giving when they come to and applaud these killings, especially if they do so in fact officially and assume the role of social representative –. I'm saying the bull comes to the defenseless square because it's just been abused: some people are being cut off their horns, they're inducerating diarrhea to weaken them and they get punched. When he comes out to be sacrificed he finds himself disoriented and dazzled, and that's why he wants to skip the barriers, and bewildered also by the screams of the public. Besides, the human being is going to put on the street, to end it, some elaborate care that some will call "art" and "esthetic" and whose end is nothing but to destroy the animal's body, slowly, until it turns it into a bloody ginnet. The touradas are based on torture, pain and bull-breathing, as well as contempt for their rights. Someone can say that the bull-reading is born to die in the square and without the Festival – with capital - in the streets this bull would go extinct. For anyone who respects animals, the predetermining of a series of individuals to be slaughtered is at least an act of premeditated cruelty. The bull's reading is a vaulted bull whose bravery is no more than the selection that the gloves have made over many centuries and that have increased by encouraging their violent traits since the animal's birth; yet, many are considered meek when they arrive at the square and for this reason they will suffer more punishment. The media sell us that, beyond the borders of the state, the tourists are admired; nothing further from reality: anyone dealing with foreigners will realize that the stereotype of bullfighter is a trap that anchores us in a past that must remain behind – the image of a barbaric, violent, and backward country –. If it's true that some tourists attend the show out of curiosity, go away startled with such daring fun. Dantesco to the point that Spanish Television banned cameras and directors from taking short plans of the bull during martyrdom. A cruel, bloody and violent spectacle cannot be regarded as culture or art. The taxes we all pay cannot continue to maintain a ritual based on cruelty and torture. The taster ties a spear into the back of the animal that crushes his muscles and injures his nerves; the flags, in the same place where he entered the peak – some have a harpoon of up to seven centimeters –; as he ends this lamentable process, the bull is pierced with an 80-centimeter sword; if he is lucky he will die soon, if the stick has entered a higher artery he will die drowned in his own blood – in which part he will not have this fate and, if the stored one does not kill him quickly, he will continue to torture; the decab, if he resists the fall; he is whipped in the neck, the prick –ten ten centimeters– section the spinal cord, the bull gets paralyzed and dies drowned; the drag, with broken vertebrae, the bull loses control of its neckbone down, but is aware of horror. They are not, therefore, ladies and gentlemen of the Galician Parliament, the tourists a cultural tradition to preserve, rather a demonstration of cruelty and sadism, of those who believe themselves superior and exercise that supposed superiority without a hint of what we mean by humanitarian feelings. I am proud that the former municipal corporation of my city, of Ourense, has declared this city – by an initiative of the Galician Nationalist Block – a city without bulldozers. We support this initiative. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u40	Thank you very much, Mrs. Churches. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. You have the floor to Mrs. Pontón Mondelo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u41	Good morning, gentlemen. Since the Galician Nationalist Block we will support this initiative. Well, as the person who defended her in her speech was very well pointed out, she came up with a text that presented the BNG in 2013. A text in which we say yes to a new culture in relation to animals, in which we say whether to educate in respect not only by animals but also in respect generally among all people. And, therefore, we refuse to maintain in the Greek legislation an exceptionality that we consider to be the main accusation of barbarity that is the tournastics. So, article 5 of the applicable Act on the protection of domestic animals and wild animals in captivity says that the use of animals in shows, fights, popular parties and other activities is prohibited if this can cause harm, suffering, or make them the object of unnatural treatment. This is a general principle that is established in legislation. But in that very article, the law itself contradicted itself and came to tell us something like that bulls are not animals, because it allows bulls to celebrate because they can do acts that cause damage, suffering and unnatural treatment, and I would say not just of a society that is called civilized. Because, indeed, we believe that bulls are animals. We believe that the touradas and all the process that takes place because it causes serious harm to this animal, and therefore we don't understand why bulls have no right to have a decent treatment. Since the Galician Nationalist Block, we have also stated that this is a debate that has a great deal to do with the ethics and values that we want to defend as a society. Laws always set a framework that has much to do with values that are socially acceptable. We understand that thinking that animals have no right is an absolute aberration. We also believe that the way we treat them and the value that we give them in our legislation has a moral meaning and is an example of what kind of society we want to build. In any case, we manifest our opposition to all mistreatment. We think it's important to make a legislative step forward in a more positive direction. We understand that the elimination of touradas is a step forward to manifest the purpose of a more advanced society, a more democratic society, a more civilized society. We believe, in addition, that in the case of Galicia the tourdas are a cultural imposition that has nothing to do with the tradition of Greek. If you study the history of the introductions in Galicia, because you will also see how it is clearly linked, isn't it? because with the conformation of a more centralist state in the Spanish state, which among other things tried to impose a tradition in Galicia, I believe that in a failed way, because there is no type of affection in the Galician society for the tourists, right? except for some representatives of the People's Party, which I hope that, once the Deputy of Pontevedra falls and stops financing the towers in this city by the Deputy, we don't see it again, right? for neither Rajoy, nor Mr. Feijóo, nor Mr. Rueda witnessing these kinds of shows. But, in any case, we have very clear that the tournaments in our country only like an ultra-minority. In fact, the demographic studies that have been done on these issues tell us that more than 90% of the Greeks and the Greeks claim to be against the tourists and that it is an ultra-minority that they consider should continue to be funded. 'Cause it's funny too, isn't it? Because like behind it, right? Of all this bully lobby because there's an interest, right? –You, who call yourselves liberals – for continuing to depend on public funds to maintain this activity. The figures – very opaque, by the way – tell us that about EUR 700 million of public aid is being devoted to the Tauromachian sector, which survives only and exclusively because there is public funding. And it's funny that the PP, who never shook his pulse in cutting, right, in culture, education, health, rights, is willing to continue financing the tournaments in this way. We, of course, believe that it must not be done, and we believe that, in addition, this law goes to the democratic logic of which values we want to defend. I suppose today the People's Party won't come back here with the argument that the animal doesn't suffer, that there's no problem, right, that it's a practice... I don't know. Of course, we believe that kind of argument has nothing to do with science. All scientific studies that lie that absurd thesis that an animal who is tortured and killed, don't you, bleeding in a square, doesn't suffer. BNG defends that the tournaises are barbarism, we don't want the tournaises to be culture and, in any case, have nothing to do with the culture of this country. We understand that the appeal to tradition, therefore, in our country makes no sense, but we also believe that in traditions that are a barbarity because in no case can it be appealed to tradition to maintain these kinds of performances. Two hundred years ago there was a Western culture that considered slavery to be legal; a hundred years ago we had no kind of rights; i.e. tradition can never be an argument to try to maintain a practice, in this case an activity that we believe is a genuine barbarity, that it is necessary to overcome. In the Spanish state there are other territories, other stateless nations that have clearly advanced in overcoming not to keep the towers. We have the example of Catalonia, but we also have other examples in other parts of the world that are moving forward and that they believe that these kinds of practices are not compatible with a society that is said to be democratic, with a society that is said to be ethical and with a society in which they really want to impose and if they want to transfer values of respect to others. We understand that this is not a problem of individual freedom. In fact, in the Spanish State itself, for example, cockfights were suspended because they were considered to be a real barbarity, and there was also affection and tradition in that practice. Dog fights are not allowed, for example, despite their tradition. There are also traditions of abuse because elsewhere, right? So we understand that this is to overcome a situation that from the point of view of the type of society we want to build, because it would be much more interesting. We understand that in Galicia there is a majority anti-taurine, we understand that there is only one minority that is defending a practice that is neither culture nor has anything to do with the Greek tradition, and we encourage that today, on this second opportunity given to the People's Party, if you take the side of rationality and not on the side of barbarism. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u42	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Socialist Group. You have the word Miss Patricia Vilan.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u43	Thank you, President. Good morning. Again we have a bill in this House that deals with the same subject. It is a really short bill that affects an article of Law 1/1993, of 13 April, on the protection of domestic and wild animals in captivity, which only affects an article, as article 5 said, and which simply does it is to eliminate what we consider – and we have already said it at the time this same bill came to this House – that shameful exception that is in this article. As soon as the Socialist Parliamentary Group votes in favour of taking this bill into consideration. We've done it about two years ago, with a text, as I say, very similar that I was defending the BNG at that time. We vote in favour, and today, too, first, because socialists understand that this text implies evolution, and that societies cannot without evolution improve; the elimination of this exception implies evolution. Secondly, because the Law on the Protection of Domestic and Wild Animals in captivity is 1993; it has passed twenty-two years and therefore this law is also necessary, as are all the laws, which evolve, which modernize and update, and remove this exception would involve modernization. And thirdly, because we understand that abuse and unnecessary harm to an animal - the bull is an animal - and therefore also during popular celebrations that have certain historical roots, in a modern, civilized, improved and evolved society, are inescapable. The animal history is full of examples of this evolution and its improvement in its protection. From Egyptian culture itself, which reflected human affection for animals in their artistic representations. There are representations of cows, baboons, cats, lions, oxen, hippos, falcons. The cat himself was an animal in Egyptian culture that brought us forward in a multitude of questions, was an animal that had special funeral celebrations, precisely what it involved. From the illustration itself, when the right of protection for animals was really born, from the 19th century Britain, which I had already agreed, which had already enacted rules to prevent the suffering of animals, animals which this parliamentary group once defined as non-human animals, because, indeed, human animals are the human species. From its own point of view, the first Universal Declaration of the Rights of the UN animal, back in the 1980s, which I was making in the necessary protection and defense of the rights of animals. From the European Union itself, which in its Treaties of Amsterdam and Lisbon refers to these very general principles of the first Universal Declaration of the Rights of the UN. Until even a socialist government, with a socialist president, that evil President Zapatero, presented in the General Courts a report on animal welfare, in 2010, reports that he was made by experts in animal welfare, and that gave rise to greater protection of animals, which could be found through a rule, which reformed our criminal code, which qualified animal abuse as a crime and even punished animal abuse with imprisonment. That evil government of the year 2010, which has made so much progress and so many achievements in civil rights; that evil government that you deign every time you leave this rostrum, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party; for that evil government defended civil rights, which you are now stoning, and also presented a report on animal welfare and had the courage to reform the criminal code in this sense. Today the socialists are going to breast-feed from that government, from that evil socialist government, from the previous governments, because, in fact, last Sunday, two days ago, the citizens told you they don't want them to continue cutting civil rights, and they told them the best way they could be, which is through their vote. We're in 2015. Today we speak not of civil rights, but of rights, in this case, of animal protection, and today it doesn't come, twenty-two years later, not even what didn't come in 1993, and it explains it. In the year 93 this House discussed the law which, even now if you want to reform, the year 93, of animal protection, and the representative at that time of the Socialist Parliamentary Group stood for an amendment to remove this exception from Article 5, which we now, twenty-two years later, want to eliminate as well. And that exception says: the party of bulls, fences and other Taurine shows are excluded from the scope of this law, which is precisely what we do not want to be recorded and what is brought on the part of the AGE Group. Well, this amendment, in 1993, which defended the representative of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, was rejected at that time by 37 votes against the People's Parliamentary Group; and twenty-two years ago. The 1993 Act explained those who defended it, who were the representatives of the People's Party, allowed this exception on the basis of the necessary survival of the historical and cultural heritage of customs in various places in Galicia. The legislator himself over twenty years ago was aware that bulls, fences, Taurine shows, were not historical-cultural heritage of Galician customs, and we are now more aware, twenty-two years later, that bulls, seals and other Taurine shows are not historical-cultural heritage of Galician customs, and therefore this exception makes no sense. And so, from the Socialist Parliamentary Group, as we said two and a half years ago, we will vote in favour of taking this bill into consideration, and at its own time, if this is accepted by the majority group of the House, who will again, twenty-two years later, will take the balance on either side, we will try to improve the text with our amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u44	Thank you, Mrs. Vilan. People's Parliamentary Group. You have the word of Mr. Santiago Freire Abeijón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u45	Thank you, President. Good morning, gentlemen. I think it is necessary to initiate this intervention by reminding them that the previous 1983 Act, of 18 April, on the protection of domestic animals and wild animals in captivity, was modified a little less than a year ago by Law 8/2014 of 26 September, and also to remind them that, despite some of them, Galicia is a part of the Spanish State, and it is evident that as part of that Spanish State and as part of this set of State-wide traditions also affect our autonomous community. Any practice during childhood, during management, during the slaughter of any animal produces a certain level of suffering to a greater or lesser extent. And I think it was demonstrated here by this amendment of the law that by all groups there was a sensitivity to avoid such animal abuse. The truth is, whoever is free from sin, who takes away the first stone. And I believe that no one escapes who governs in the Pontevedra Council, no one escapes that Mr. Paco Vázquez was a promoter of certain Taurine shows in the Coruña during his government stage and also funding certain Taurine activities through coalition governments of the Galician Nationalist Block, because we understand that he also had a certain responsibility on the maintenance and promotion of these kinds of shows and such activities. But we went on to report the changes I made to this law: Amendments which were essentially aimed at analysing Article 24 thereof, changing the penalties and the typification of the infringements referred to in Article 24, specifying the slight ones with a content of between EUR 100 and 500, the penalties of EUR 501 to 5,000 and the very serious ones of EUR 5001 to EUR 30,000. The additional third provision of the Act on the Protection of Domestic and Wild Animals in captivity is amended as follows: "The Galician Union shall be authorized to amend the amount of sanctions set out in Article 24 annually according to the annual change in the CPI". An additional provision is added, which is drafted as follows: "The Government must develop together with the protective entities and collaborative associations campaigns and awareness-raising initiatives on the content of this law by the general population." And it also establishes an additional fifth provision, which is defined as: "The revenue from the sanctions imposed by the competent bodies of the General Administration of the Autonomous Community of Galicia for infringements of this law shall be devoted to actions aimed at promoting animal protection." It is clear that these changes have taken one more step and it is clear that by the Galician Union they are already making dissemination campaigns to raise awareness not only of the adult population, but also of the child population, to try to avoid as far as possible any kind of animal abuse practice. But you here today are putting forward a proposal that focuses on modifying it again, almost in less than a year, in Law 1/1993, to remove paragraphs 2 and 3 of Article 5 of that law. These articles say: "The party of bulls, locks and other Taurine shows are excluded from the scope of this law." I also wanted someone to think if the Boi Party in Allariz to consider a show, to consider a tradition, to consider a closure or what kind of consideration they give to that kind of show, to set an example. And it also states at the third point: "Without prejudice to paragraph 1, the Agriculture, Gandery and Mountains Council may authorize, under the control of its respective federation, the holding of firefighting to the Pombino." The autonomic legislation on the protection of domestic animals and wild animals in captivity is basically represented by the law we used to refer to, and also by Decree 153/1998 of 2 April, which develops it. And over 20 years after the publication of the main standard for the protection of domestic animals in Galicia, you can say that it generally collects all those most important points in the fight against abuse or abandonment of domestic animals. On the one hand, it identifies in great detail aspects relating to inadequate conditions regarding the nature of domestic animals; it includes such important aspects as hygienic conditions, sanitation, feeding or the purposes for which animals are used and irregular sale itself; it also identifies ill-treatment in all its variants, including both those situations in which pain is caused and where it does not occur; it may be psychological abuse or on its own conditions in maintenance; it also clearly regulates the obligations of the municipalities on the collection and care of abandoned domestic animals; it recognises the figure of protected animal associations; it establishes the obligation to identify all dogs without exception; and establishes clear criteria for the creation of establishments that house domestic animals and wild animals in captivity. The fact is, at the state level, most of the autonomous standards maintain a great similarity in their structure, in their contents, in the measures envisaged and, above all, especially in the identification of prohibited conduct, if they are well graduated differently from the time of the imposition of sanctions. At Community level, we also find great diversity in the content of animal protection rules and also in the results obtained from their application. All of this resulted in the adoption on 27 June 2012 of a resolution on the protection of domestic animals, in which, among other measures, the European Commission was asked to propose a European Union legal framework for the protection of the welfare of pet animals and vagrant animals. The 1993 Act itself was recently amended, establishing an update on sanctions, not only in the planning of actions to be developed but also in the proactive exercise of awareness-raising and education, through the drive of cooperation through social awareness campaigns that deepen this problem and enable progress towards reducing cases of animal abuse, good practices and responsible tendency. It is also true that the Greek Government is aware of the need to develop awareness-raising initiatives on animal protection. And that's why he's launching campaigns and outreach and education activities aimed primarily at the smaller ones, betting on the values related to animal protection in future generations. And it is also true that the main strategy by which the Council of Galicia is committed, and given that in this community the Taurine shows celebrated is a residual quota and that every year it experiences a declining trend, and by these aspects we understand that it is not considered appropriate to address in the short term and unilaterally a timely modification of the law in terms formulated, but that it is fundamental, and as it cannot be otherwise, to push forward the feeling and actual participation of citizens on this subject, not based solely on uncontrastded and exclusively on data, and exclusively on the basis of the data of opinion. In any case, any revision of these aspects should be part of a framework, in the more comprehensive revision of this law, which guarantees information and public participation processes on an objective basis. Therefore, we understand that in these circumstances it is not necessary to change these two points because the law itself collects perfectly that the use of animals in shows, fights, popular parties and other activities if this can cause harm, suffering or make them subject to unnatural treatment. Exceptionally, the Agriculture, Gandery and Mountains Council may authorize customary shows involving animals. So this change in those two points, we understand that in those circumstances it is not justified.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u46	Thank you very much. Parliamentary group that is the author of the bill, has the word by Eva Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u47	First of all, I wanted to regret the death of the worker who died this morning at the Bridges, the victim of a labor accident, another one more sadly. Secondly, I would like to thank the opposition groups for their support for this proposal. And thirdly, regretting the position, once again of the People's Party, which seems to defend the Taurine lobby, because, really, there was no argument here to justify the positioning. Mr. Freire, once again, the truth is that by playing a very uncomfortable role – I understand – of someone who does not believe in the tours, he came here to defend himself without knowing what and making a narrative of the legal situation or of the situation that he now has the Animal Protection Act. I myself in my intervention have already referred to that amendment, which we approved in the past month of September, and I precisely explained why we did not include this point at that time because we knew the dissense that was going to cause and, therefore, that the rest of the measures, which were the prevention measures in the field of animal abuse, would not be approved. We knew or understood that position of the People's Party because, as we have already said here, if you've been debating more times, and we have to regret again the double rod of measuring with animals and others, which you haven't just understood. I'm also sorry that the speech of "and you more" is moved here. When we talk about anything, the People's Party brings that angry speech to the House, which I don't know why they insist because they've just seen the elections that don't give them any kind of result, that you're completely falling apart. And if we want to talk about subsidies, we should also ask ourselves why the Deputy of Pontevedra does not continue to transfer the total amount of subsidies, which precisely motivated -- worth redundancy -- a file admitted by the People's Valuer of a complaint by Galicia's Best Without Tournaments, by opacity, because they do not facilitate that data from the public budgets that are given precisely for the Taurine lobby. And so it's not a good example to use here the "and you more." But in addition, they use subterfuges to further justify torture and ill-treatment, which you yourselves recognize is not protected in Greek society. I don't know why you're talking about uncontested data, it seems now that the data from the Ministry of Culture and Education are uncontested data. Well, man! for you don't seem to be contrasted, I could also tell you that precisely that revalid of the Wert Law is not based on any type of contrasted data and should therefore withdraw it immediately. I'm hallucinating: the data from the Ministry of Culture are no longer valid data for the People's Party itself. That's the credibility your own ministers also have. And I also ask here what kind of interests you have with that Taurine lobby, because if there is no public – you know it – if we all know here that animals suffer – and this is an exception to the legal exception that should not be considered – if there are virtually no people who want to go, if the Greeks and the Greeks did not support this practice and if they correspond or essentially declare themselves anti-taurine and anti-taurine, what is the interest you have here to continue protecting that Taurine lobby? I'm asking. You should also ask your mayors, your deputy presidents, and ask yourself among yourselves what is the reason to continue justifying torture and ill-treatment of these animals. The same is true of the Pombino shot. It's a practice that in addition to being ill-treated, it's firmly related to a classic model, where some gentlemen with potential economics go to the contours of a casino, an area that obviously the rest of the mortals cannot go, pay the abuse to some animals that carry them there. And that's permitted by law, and everything is perfectly compatible with your ethics. Look, what we betrayed here today was precisely the possibility of a debate, because what you are going to vote for is consideration. If you today, as it seems, return to voting not even that much in consideration, you will be showing off your anti-democratic heel. I repeat: this proposal is backed up with 260,000 signatures of Welsh and Welsh, which are the people, but it seems to you that, as I said in my intervention, the people are not the most orderly. [[Applause]] Voting of legislative texts
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u48	Let us turn to the vote on the legislative texts. We shut the doors. We begin with the vote on the amendments to the whole refund submitted to the Project for the financing of political formations and related foundations and associations. First of all, we are voting on the amendment by the Joint Group, document number 35563. We vote. Voting of the amendment to the total refund of G.P. Joint project for the financing of political formations and related foundations and associations. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 15; votes against, 40; abstentions, 17. The result of the vote is negative. This amendment is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u49	We then voted on the amendment of the Parliamentary Group on the Nationalist Block of Wales, document No. 35590. We vote. Voting of the amendment to the total refund of G.P. from the Galego Nationalist Block to the Project of Law on the Financing of Political Trainings and Related Foundations and Associations. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 15; votes against, 40; abstentions, 17. The result of the vote is negative. This amendment is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u50	Finally, we voted on the amendment by the Parliamentary Group of the Gaga de Left Alternative, document number 35565. We vote. Voting of the amendment to the total refund of G.P. of the Galga de Left Alternative to the Project for the financing of political formations and related foundations and associations. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 15; votes against, 40; abstentions, 17. The result of the vote is negative. This amendment is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u51	The bill will therefore continue its parliamentary process.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u52	We then vote on the legislative proposal from the Parliamentary Group of the Glaga Alternative of the Left. We vote. Voting of the consideration of the Proposal for a Law, of the G.P. of the Alternative Glaga de Left, reform of Law 1/1993, of 18 April, of protection of domestic animals and wild animals in captivity. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. This bill is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u53	So we continue with the development of the agenda, with point 2, of full attendance. The opinion of Mrs. Work and Wellness Advisor, on his own request, to report on the Annual Employment Policy Plan in Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u54	You have the floor for your first intervention by Mrs. Beatriz Mato's Labour and Wellness Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u55	Good morning. Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I come again in this House to take account of the annual employment policy plan of our community, which will constitute our roadmap for this year 2015 in the field of employment. I compare, as I said, once again – it's the second time – to speak of the most important, of what we are most concerned and occupied, that is employment, and especially because it's our main objective. I'm not speaking in any way of an objective that is new, since, when we arrived at the Government in 2009, we had it very clear, that it was our main task, our irrevocable task, to improve these unemployment figures that accompany us. So from day one, and from minute one, we had very clear that this government's first goal had to be to stop, first of all, the rate of unemployment destruction that was in our community, to then start creating jobs, and today I can say that we are on that path. In the previous legislation we were able to slow down the rate of unemployment growth, in the legislation of 2009, especially since when we arrived there were 50,000 more unemployed in the last year of the previous Government, and in this legislation, in the legislation we are in, we are already moving forward in job creation. And I don't say it, it's not a statement that's simply put forward by a government, but that's what the figures say, the indicators say, that show that today we're not only better than a year ago, but also that we're better than two years ago, three years and even four years ago. So in 2009, the unemployment rate of the labour force survey rose by 3.75 compared to the previous year and now not only not only increases, but is falling by 1.3%. Four years ago, membership of Social Security was decreasing at an annual rate of 2.23% and today membership of Higher Social Security is growing at 2.2%. When we arrived, membership of Social Security lost 45,000 workers and today, in the last year, earns 20,000 members of Social Security. But, if you can imagine, maybe the data that best shows change is the trend towards those 50,000 unemployed unemployed who have been in the last year, between 2008 and 2009, and today there are 25,000 unemployed less. That's why we've been down 18 months consecutively in the inter-annual unemployment rate, that is, 18 months in which unemployment decreases over the previous year. And it's been 13 consecutive months with positive figures also in the membership of Social Security. Finally, they are changing these negative indicators that accompanied us, to become indicators that are on the path of growth, indicators that are positive. Anyway, of course, we have unemployment figures in our community -- we're talking about 244,700 unemployed -- which make us work the whole Government of Galicia every day to change the situation of those people who are unemployed. Of course, economic recovery and job creation are our objective and, of course, job creation must be a quality job. The recruitment data in our community also begin to show positive signs. In December 2011, indefinite contracts were reduced at a rate of 37% annually and this year undefined contracts increase at an annual rate of 12%. And another fact also to be taken into account by analyzing the type of contracts, according to the survey of active population, the percentage of employees in the first quarter of 2007 with indefinite contract, the percentage of employees with indefinite contract in 2007, in the first quarter of 2007, was 68.9%, and now, in the first quarter of 2015, the percentage of undefined contracts within those who show the active population survey is 76.4%, i.e. 7.5 points more than before the crisis, in particular in the first quarter of 2007. On the other hand, population survey data also show that now in Galicia, eight out of ten workers currently have a full-time day. In fact, full-time workers in our community amount to 838,000, out of the 987,500 people occupied by the active population survey. But, of course, we have to keep working, working to improve, working to improve the economic situation and also working for the unemployed in our community. And that is why I would like to focus on this appearance at the Ministry of Labour, which is the annual employment policy plan. As you know, all autonomous communities present to the state the measures that we are going to develop in our community during this year. At this meeting, which has already taken place in April and of what I want to report in this Parliament, the results of the previous plan have also been evaluated, and that is why the new allocation of active employment policy funds for the communities has been made. Thanks to the good implementation of these funds and the fulfilment of the objectives set for 2014, Galicia will receive, in this year 2015, nearly 114 million euros for the concept of active employment policies. This means 14% more than last year. And, as I say, this is because of the good execution of the previous program, that Galicia has increased this percentage that is being dealt with from the central government. In addition, in the presentation of the Annual Employment Action Plan we have shown that we are an active community, the most active one, presenting programmes and presenting measures. Thus, out of the 442 programs that were presented by all autonomous communities, 88 correspond to this autonomous community. That is, 20% of the total annual employment plan across the state was provided by this autonomous community. So we have the community that most programs have included, with these 88 measures, of which 45 are programs that will be developed only in our autonomous community and not in any other. One in five employment programmes in autonomous communities in 2015 will therefore be developed in Galicia. These 88 programmes and measures will have six axes of action. The first of these measures is designed for guidance, because it is essential that workers get a job according to their abilities. The second will be designed for training, to improve the training of our workers and also to improve their opportunities to find a job. The third includes measures aimed at employment opportunities. The fourth is an aspect that we must not forget, which is equal opportunities for access to employment, with the objective that opportunities be the same, regardless of the territory in which we are in. The fifth is the area of action for a collective that we have been supporting from the very first moment, which is the collective of entrepreneurs, through entrepreneurship measures that are, of course, made with all the opportunities and facilities possible to develop their project. And the last – but not least – axis is designed to improve the institutional framework of the national employment system, because undoubtedly improving coordination between administrations is also improving the facilities and opportunities of our workers. Thus, in total, Galicia this year will have a total of 164 million euros for employment, i.e. 12 million more than we anticipated in drawing up our budgets presented to this Parliament for this year. This increase is possible because Galicia will receive 14% more state funds this year, as I said, thanks to having met the objectives and implementation of the previous funds. Within the annual employment policy plan, I would like to focus on those most important measures and, where appropriate, more innovative. Training becomes a fundamental cornerstone of our policies. The whole training is going to be devoted in particular to EUR 160 million, EUR 70 million, a figure that is finally above the estimate that we made in our budget of EUR 66 million. And this is possible because in the distribution of funds, as I said earlier, Galicia obtained the maximum budget and more budget than the previous year. Fulfillment of objectives was what made it possible for us today to have EUR 3.3 million more than planned solely for training. Much of this training budget – in particular, of the 70 million, 40 – is intended for training for the unemployed, which means 20% more than we intended last year. With them we will offer training to more than 15,000 pupils and students. Among these are two important developments. The first is that for the first time, we will publish an order of assistance for students and students of training courses. It's going to be an order of 4 million euros for transport, maintenance, housing and conciliation, as well as a special help for people with disabilities, women victims of gender violence and people who follow a custom route of insertion. And in the second line, we are going to launch two new lines of aid, which are provided with EUR 4.8 million in total, to provide training in this case linked to ICT, linked to languages, certificates of professionalism, within two new employment plans of the Galician Union, which are the plans I have already presented in this Parliament at the last appearance: the Youth Guarantee Plan, for children under 25 years of age, and the Active programme, directed at long-term unemployed. All this has to be added to the effort we are making to expand and improve the supply of employment workers. This year we will invest 15 million euros in the launch of 77 employment workshops, which will benefit, depending on training and recruitment, 2,000 people. Within these 15 million, we shielded the budget for the workshops and introduced these 5 million euros for the first time published – they are published – linked to employment workshops for under 25 years. I would also like to highlight the experience with dual training within the framework of active employment policies; training that is organised through contracts, employment contracts aimed at unemployed people, in this case under 30 years of age. These contracts are linked to a training activity which has to be at least 25%, and which, of course, has a wage according to the agreement of the undertaking that hires it. In addition, as proof of our commitment, with this modality since the Galician Union, we not only guarantee on our own initiative the full coverage of the training given to that person contracted under this contract; that is, all training in our community will not only be subsidized, but also that the contract itself will be subsidized with EUR 1,200. In recent months, through this dual procurement formula, 324 contracts have been funded through this dual training contract, but by 2015 it has already published in the Official Journal of Galicia an order in which we commit EUR 2.65 million, specifically for dual training in 2015 and we hope that it will give the opportunity to hire 475 under 30 years of age through this dual training contract. We also strengthen integrated employment programmes, which seek the inclusion of participants, combining actions such as guidance, counselling, training, work practice and geographic mobility. These programmes contain an budget of EUR 5.7 million this year, and will benefit 2,000 people, and even so, in terms of training, we need to talk not only about the training of unemployed but also about busy people, where we again shield more than EUR 6 million for this year 2015 for the training of people who are currently employed, with the aim of improving their growth options in the labour market and ensuring the competitiveness of our business fabric. I would also like to highlight a pioneering order – also presented in this Parliament earlier – in our community, included in this Annual Employment Plan, which is the Order of Recruitment of Persons of Social Integration Income, launched in 2014, where about 620 people had the opportunity to be hired through 120 municipalities, which I have made an investment commitment of 5 million euros. Thanks to this measure, these people who received income from social integration had the opportunity not only to improve their experience, but also their curriculum, but to have a job. This is how we decided to increase our commitment to this order by 2015; we doubled the investment, going from 5 million to 10 million euros, with the objective of 1,000 people this year 2015 being eligible for social integration income that find a job through all the councils that today have applied for this recruitment through the Order of Social Integration Income. In addition, I would like to point out that in the presentation of this Annual Employment Policy Plan to the Government of the State it was proposed to this community – Galicia – as the seat of a seminar of good practice in the recognition of professional experience; a fact that we cannot show ourselves more than satisfied, because it is a recognition to this community for the commitment that we have already been developing and making since 2009 to bet on the official accreditation of the experience of our workers. We were the first autonomous community to bet decisively on this type of training; a training that allows workers to have an official recognition that believes their experience, not only in Galicia but throughout the state. The fact of anticipating us allowed us to have held until now 7 calls, which gave them the opportunity that 10,000 people could believe and get professional accreditation. Thanks to this opportunity given to 10,000 people, 5,000 people today have already obtained their full certificate that believes their professionalism. I'm talking about specialties that went through these courses and these accreditations, such as red tapes, socio-health care, welding, pest control and rescuers. And so we're going on, working on these kinds of calls so our professionals, who've been doing their job for a long time, can have an official document confirming their experience. Good practices are also reflected in another mechanism, which is the control mechanisms and subsidies for training. In addition to all the mechanisms that have existed, for years now, this government has decided to strengthen them, and that's why we are now working on a manual for the procedure of control of subsidies that includes some measures that are already in progress, such as, for example, the face-to-face control of training actions, through a digital footprint system, or how it can be the prohibition of hiring an external teaching service by an enterprise. Now only physical persons can be hired to teach training courses. Within the employment policies that we're applying in our community, I have to make a special mention of the Youth Employment Plan, a plan that we launched a year ago, which is the first cross-sectional plan in the history of the Union. In this plan, much of the Government of Galicia is involved. We all work with the aim of reducing unemployment rates for children under 30. Never before has no government made a specific youth employment plan. To this end, we are allocating EUR 100 million for these two years, for 2014 and 2015, with 19 measures. A year after this plan is put in place, I think you can balance and evaluate the results achieved so far. It was more than 8,000 young people who didn't study or work that received personal attention, which allowed them to count on an individual itinerary with guidance of accompaniment and training. Another measure of this plan is the incentives for recruitment, which was an important performance and which benefited 1,500 young men and women who had that aid for recruitment through this order. Even so, another highlight of the plan is the promotion of self-employment and enterprise among the young people of our community. On the one hand, training actions in this area have reached and benefited about 7,800. But it is also true that in 2014 there were 14,635 under 30 years of age, registered as autonomous, of which 730 were given the opportunity to receive help from the Central Government and even from the Government of Galicia. In total, of all the measures of the Youth Employment Plan in 2014, they have benefited about 48,000 young people and girls from our community, which means that we have already reached 50% of the beneficiaries of the plan, which, as I say, is biannual. And if we look at the youth unemployment figures, we can also say that the plan is producing positive results, and this is demonstrated by the fact that in 2014 unemployment among children under 25 is reduced to 21.5%, according to the unemployment rate. This data converts Galicia into the first community with a higher reduction in unemployment among children under 25 years of age in 2014. In addition, and in addition to the Youth Employment Plan, this year we launched the Youth Guarantee Programme, which is also a novelty in the Annual Employment Policy Plan, which for the first time includes measures specifically designed for children under the age of 25 who do not study or work. It is, as you know, a European programme in which all development measures with social agents have been agreed in our community. We all work with the aim of ensuring that these young people receive an offer of work, of continuing education, of training for employment, or the possibility of practical practice, and for that we are working with them within a maximum of four months since they finish formal education or get unemployed. In other words, in one year we have set up two completely complementary employment plans designed to improve the employability of our young people, and we do so by mobilising 150 million euros for that. On the other hand, we have also designed a specific programme for another of the most concerned groups, who are the long-term unemployed and who also have family burdens; a programme whose measures also appear for the first time in the Annual Employment Policy Plan; that is, for the first time this plan includes measures aimed at people who have been unemployed for more than a year without finding employment; a programme that we have also developed and agreed with social agents and that we have allocated 10 million euros, and which is complementary to the accompanying income of 426 euros that I have put in place the Central Government along with social agents. Galicia is thus the first community in the entire state to design a complementary plan for this collective. Of course, I cannot finish without remembering this government's commitment to support self-employed, entrepreneurs and cooperatives. We are a community with enormous potential, and our entrepreneurs and self-employed are the ones that put all that potential in place. In fact, Galicia currently has 225,000 employees on its own, which means 25% of all membership of Social Security in our community. This, in this community where self-employed and entrepreneurs occupy the highest percentage within the membership of social security within the state. That is why it is essential that it contains with all support and with all possible tools and facilities, and for that this Labour Council commits EUR 27 million. Thanks to the self-support measures, since 2009 there have been 20,000 autonomouss who have received some assistance from the Autonomous Community. Finally – and to finish – Galicia has EUR 164 million this year for all employment measures. This is 12 million more than we originally anticipated; an increase that is possible because Galicia receives 14% more state funds this year because it has met the goals set for the previous year. Galicia is a community committed to employment. We were the community that most of the programs presented in the State Employment Policy Plan. 20 per cent of all state programmes are committed and will be developed in this autonomous community. As far as training is concerned, we will reach EUR 70 million this year, a figure that is above our estimate at the beginning of this year, namely EUR 3.3 million more than planned and planned in the Budget Act. Galicia has been selected as the headquarters of a good practice seminar in recognizing the effort this community makes for professional experience; a bet we have seen since 2009 pioneering and now receiving its recognition. Within our employment policies, we give special attention to the groups who are most concerned about us, such as the long-term unemployed and the young and young people of our community, and today, thanks to this government, the young people of our community have a youth employment plan, which, as I said, has already benefited 48,000 young people from our community, which exceeds 50% of the intended beneficiaries. I believe that we are taking the necessary steps to ensure that Galicia continues on this path of growth. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u56	Thank you very much, Counselor. Round of parliamentary groups. For the Joint Group, Mrs. Iglesias Sueiro.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u57	Thank you, President. Good morning, Mrs. Beatriz. You began your intervention by saying that the goal of this government was to improve the unemployment figures you found. Well, they didn't get any better. They didn't improve at all. Then I'll develop it in the intervention I have here. Besides, what kind of job are you creating, a precarious job, a poorly paid job, a job where work conditions are enslaved? Yes, yes, slaves, as I'll show you later. And you're talking about unemployed people on the INEM lists, but there's a lot of unemployed people who aren't even on the INEM lists. There are women hired by their department who are being abused, those who depend on the Social Services Labour and Welfare Council. There are things I can't identify with your speech, such as the ERE that just introduced Mr. Adolfo Domínguez in Ourense, which shifts the company and takes it to India, where they are being exploited, not women, too girls. And besides, the scam that sells us as a crisis – because it's a scam – has magnified inequality immensely, not only for high unemployment. And I also want to tell you that if unemployment goes down, it's because the population goes down, they leave Galicia. In addition, wage devaluations are tremendous, and inequality is also due to the different behavior of employment incomes and capital-based incomes. The expansion of these latter ones – which you call "recovery" – is obvious; I think perhaps this was the origin of this crisis. But, as this happens, that they tell us about economic recovery, they don't do the same with wages, especially with those low-skilled workers and with recent contracts – those contracts that tell you that they are increasing so much – and they have an explanation – because precariousness is accompanied by lower average hourly wages, which, together with earnings derived from lower employment, help explain the fall in costs per unit produced and, however, the economic upheaval of the profits of certain companies. There are already voices, Mrs. Beatriz, believers who question this so-called stability – I don't know very well what they mean – if that stability is based on excessive inequality. We have just seen that social tensions and disaffectation to the system are things that governments should take into account so as not to bring great disgust. And the data I have doesn't agree at all with what you've given. The Galician Voice of 21 May this year reports that Galicia is moving away from the European Union and is back in convergence at the 2004 level. The average per capita wealth of a Galician is equivalent to 83% of a European citizen, a proportion that in 2009 – when you entered government they collected this inheritance – was 92.3% – you became 83% –. The slow convergence process has therefore reverted to at least a decade. According to Eurostat's latest study, the European Union's statistical agency, the average wealth of a Galician at the end of 2013 was 83% of a European's income. To find such a low proportion would have to go to 2004, because in 2009 – when you started to govern; it seems that according to this data the Bipartite didn't do so bad – the income of a Galician amounted to 92.3% of the average income of a European. Temporality, Counsellor, part-time contracts and low wages dominate the current working environment, and there are many abuses on the part of the employer – you have to know and, if you don't know, it's because you don't live in this world – Mondays to Fridays to avoid paying them the weekends, hourly contracts, dayly contracts; tremendous!, everything has been worse since you rule. The OECD report says that 10 percent of the richest earn 9.6 times as much as 10 percent of the poorest; in the 1980s and with the Bipartite it was 7 times not 9.6. And the victims who hide this data are people who live in severe poverty, Counselor, severe poverty! Do you go down the street and see how many people you're asking, who have no work, people who have not come? It's just that it's obvious. If you're going to take a walk around here, you're going to have to see us; poor people whose income is 4,057 euros a year, and even if it's women and young people. Because, of course, the committed practices of fraud and tax evasion combined with the sum of taxes, the increase in unemployment, the cuts in social services, labor rights, education, health and reduction of wages are some causes that point not to this Member but to the OECD of this slate which – I will speak in the past – drowned our lives and that of our country. But the situation of working women is particularly serious. According to a report by the IGC, without emigration – it's that, I'm telling you, you can't take into account the unemployment rate if you don't consider emigration; you have to take into account the data to be objective and correct – and I under-use the figure of unemployed Greek women would reach 300,000. And now listen to this data, please: 92,839 Welsh people earn less than €1,861 per year and 71,783 have emigrated since 2008; figures that, together with the number of unemployed who estimate EPA -132,000, would raise the number of unemployed women in Galicia to 300,000. This data dismantles the fallacy of unemployment and decreases the population. Last year, in 2014, 13,600 girls left. The number of women aged 16 to 35 has been reduced since 2008. Then wonder why she's going to be born. Go away, I repeat, go away. 75% of part-time jobs were performed by women in 2014, and 23% of employees had a partial contract. If it was little, from 2009 to 2013, when you start to rule, the average wage of the workers is reduced by 1.4%, and the 447,647 women who submitted income statements – no less or less; that is, 20.7%, that is, 92,839 women – had lower incomes – are incomes from the Fair – to 1,861 euros gross per year. Do you think that with this salary you can consider yourselves employed? In fact, the EPA does not reflect the harsh reality of women in the Italian labour market. And the data and balance that you give us are nothing more than pure and harsh propaganda. The Consortium of Equality and Welfare does not pay wages to several workers since February, Counsellor. This non-compliance mainly affects workers who make replacements for wages of EUR 600 and contracts for most of the time of days. Unbelievable, the third world! It's not understood that they self-enjoy their employment policies if they pay the minimum wage to workers who depend on their advice. But this sector, that of social workers, is in an unsustainable situation that looks like slaves in the past century or this century in countries like India, with unbearable shifts and wages of misery. This dramatic situation is not only attributable to the crisis, it is also attributable, and it is also the responsibility of this wicked government's policies. They change those policies and they don't have the guts to come to this hemicycle and sell us carrot smoke. Thank you. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u58	Thank you very much, Mrs. Churches. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. You have the floor to Mrs. Prado Cores.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u59	Good morning. Mrs. Mato, you started this speech by saying that the employment situation in Galicia worries you and takes care of you. I don't know if you're worried, but take care of yourself. He also said that it was his main task when they arrived at the Government and that the whole of the Government right now is at that point. So if the data has to be sent back, then we have to give it a suspension, because, as much as you keep trying to use the statistics and the figures as appropriate, in a case it goes back to 2007 to do the comparisons, in other cases it does it to 2009; that is, it's playing with the figures to give you some data that you think can be favorable to it, but, of course, it doesn't work out. You've made here a breakdown of your employment measures: the 2015 Employment Plan, 88 programs and 6 performances. The truth is, it's a little scary to hear from you. To continue to emphasize the issue of training when, on the one hand, they are dismantling regulated training by allocating less resources, condemning many people to have to give up their training because they have no resources to pay, and it turns out that they want to replace it with training where the only beneficiaries of it continue to be mostly companies... You've also done so far on the subject of dual training, and the truth is that it also gives a lot to think about. Look, dual training, what do you mean, this training where, for example, in a Salné inn, you're paying companies free of charge for training professionals who work for free for all those months? Yes, that's their dual training, Counselor, being paying companies training, not for the benefit of those who are trained but for the benefit of businesses. Then he refers to the Youth Employment Plan; a youth employment plan where he puts the emphasis on self-employment, and gives a series of data. What he doesn't give is the data of how many of these entrepreneurs – the word that they like so much for the People's Party and you to repeat – after the help, after they are engaged, after they believe their propaganda, they open or set up a company. How many of them or of them then remain active after a year, Mrs. Mato? How many are still active and with the company open after two? How much do they shut down the company, and it turns out that they have to keep paying the debts they've put on because of paying attention to their propaganda, that they don't solve their problems? The truth is that – as Castelao would say, there is no need to laugh because the story is serious – would be to laugh. Look, the economic and labor policies of the People's Party that you're carrying out have certainly called into question the future of our country. Galicia does not decide which policies are the most appropriate for our economy, for our productive sectors, to create jobs, to have a decent future; it is the German Government and the European Union who decide what plans are being put in place. And you limit yourself to meeting the goals that others set for you. Look, you've assumed here that the Swedish Employment Plan for 2015 is increasing by 14%. Look, the funds it distributes, which gives the state, are gracefully increasing by 23.25%, that of Galicia, by 14%. And you come here to be blessed when the resources destined for Galicia are 9.25% lower than the average state. And you applaud your ears and it turns out you're giving it 14% more to meet the targets that you have marked; that is to say, to be obedient to the goals that you mark Madrid. You didn't say here is if those targets are the ones that are suitable to create jobs in Galicia, if they are the ones that are suitable for Galicia's work reality. Just applaud that Madrid tells you what to do and you do it. Nor did he say that the European Social Fund, where most of these resources are fed, allocates a whole range of resources to the Spanish State on the basis of a number of priorities where Galicia should receive a whole series of resources, because those resources are inversely proportional to the income of that autonomous community. It turns out that the state puts them in a common box, then distributes them as it wants, the average state increases by 23.25%, Galicia increases by 14%, when it should be above average because we have per capita income lower than state income, and you're very satisfied. Well, the truth is we don't see in the Galego Nationalist Block which must be that cause of concern because I remind you – because you, the People's Party, seem to forget it systematically – that Galicia has transferred competences in the field of active employment policies, Mrs Mato. With which, you shouldn't make every effort to please Madrid in the goals that they set it up, but you should put forth every effort to demand that these resources be as much as possible and to set targets in Galicia, Mrs Mato, according to Galicia's employment needs. I wonder why I am so committed to fulfilling the goals that Madrid decides on and does not put that same commitment into designing our country's own goals; its own objectives based on the reality of employment and unemployment in our country. Mrs. Mato, I should try to confront the decisions of Madrid and to serve as Labour and Employment Counsellor of our country, not as a delegate of the Government of Madrid. You should fall the shame of being delegated to the Government of Madrid instead of being the Labour and Employment Adviser in Galicia. And, look, Galicia is not converging; it's not converging on employment, Mrs Mato, the previous honourable Member has said so here. The income of a Welshman and a Welshman is 22% lower than the average state – 22% – and 35% lower than that of a godmother or a godmother. Do you think that's a source of satisfaction for you to say that the whole of the Welsh Government is engaged and is working cross-sectionally to improve employment data in Galicia? Then please stop working. If the consequence of this nuanced job is that the average income of the Greeks and the Greeks is 25% lower and 35% lower than a child, please stop working. Stop working in this direction because all they're going to do is sink us more. Look, the rate of activity is the lowest in the state, only in Asturias, and Asturias has a lower unemployment rate than Galicia. The occupation lost in Galicia is the full-time occupation, as much as you want here to twist the data. It increases temporality, there's higher rotation, more part-time schedules, more temporality, worse wages and low income. Look, 95,000 families have all their members in unemployment, and there are 6,500 more than in the last quarter of 2014, Mrs. Mato; 95,000 families where there is not one single person who works. And you come here self-congratulating yourself. You have cut down on benefits, active employment policies, job offers. In 2015, your own budgets, the budgets you forecast, actually, were going down by 37%; now it looks like you're going to fix it by the way that Madrid is going to make up for it. Look, they reduced everything that was related to the intermediation, reduction of cooperation programmes, direct recruitment of unemployed people, workshops schools, reduced the Council's own employment technicians...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u60	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u61	...has reduced guidance, local employment technicians have been reduced, there is a 50% decrease in economic resources to provide human resources with guidance, itineraries, and here you come to say that you are making youth employment plans that will improve intermediation. How do you marry one thing to another, Mrs. Mato? How do you marry one thing to another? You are still installed on the propaganda of the path of recovery. The path of recovery? What's the recovery? The data certify that the fear of the labour market in Galicia is tremendous: precariousness, temporality, gain less, contracts for hours. In April, 7.8% of contracts were undefined, but 92.8% were temporary, Mrs Mato, as much as you twist the numbers. More than 90% of the recruitment is temporary, and only 49% of the unemployed receive some kind of benefit. You have absolutely nothing to boast about, nothing to come here to presume...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u62	Please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u63	...not to present us any active employment policy plans, because the data – the real data, not those you want to twist here – the only thing that they give is a job market in terrifying Galicia, Mrs. Mato, terrifying!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u64	Thank you very much, Mrs. Prado. Parliamentary Group of the Left Galician Alternative. Mr. Juan Manuel Fajardo has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u65	Good morning to all and to all. The truth is that paradoxes of the Greek Parliament: I, which has been sad, angry and outraged for a long time by the social data of this country, by the precariousness, unemployment, poverty, have never seen sad faces in the People's Party because of the social situation of this country, I have never seen them, and less in the responsible advisor. On the other hand, today I see sad faces in the People's Party, when it shouldn't be that way, because the people who are going to change everything have arrived, the people who are going to put the emphasis on what is necessary and not in high school and the people who are going to defend the common good and not the particular benefit; those who aren't going to allow a counselor to come here and say that we're creating jobs and it might seem like we're at the best possible situation. I am not going to bore Parliament with data – which, by the way, from the People's Party is clear that it is more internal than elsewhere – but there is a social data that makes it clear what your policy is and what the reality is: last year IBEX 35 companies have increased their profits by 49%, instead one in three under 16 is today under the poverty line. That's the policy of the People's Party. Worse than at 11.27 this morning the tide has come to my people and is dragging those who are working against the social majority! He's dragging those who are making a common pit of workers and workers who are being condemned to conditions of misery. And I say it not by chance. Your own data... look, I'm going to do... this is an official data from your advisor's office, and when you do the X-ray of the job situation, you forget to say what the profile of the people who recognize the Council itself is. Look, the profile of the person standing in this country-- 36-45-year-old woman, trade worker in general. In this country unemployment is woman-faced, and you give it absolutely the same. And the measures they propose are against that need. Profile of contracts in this country. You said there was an increase in indefinite recruitment. Look, contract profile: man, 26 to 35 years old; temporary contract and occupation, wager waiter. That's the future that's left for this country, working as a waiter hired with indecent wages for excessive days. And that doesn't matter to you. Of course, that happens when we're in a country where to give sulfate, we have to take a course, but, for example, to be Labour Counsellor, we don't even have to know about work regulations. Because it's indecent that you propose here that indefinite contracts grow when the contract that grows most is job promotion, that you count as indefinite, but it's not because you have a year of trial period, and also very precarious situations of quote. That's your reality. But if you had the decency – which you don't have in political terms – to get the policies and programs of that employment plan down here, you'd see as in axis 1, for example, of that employment program that you've been down with so much wonder, says: that's 1, orientation. Do you know what program you include in axis 1, orientation? I'll read it to you. Or SP16 Programme Plan of the Autonomous Community of Galicia to combat the fraud of benefits. You in the orientation axis are the only community that includes a plan to pursue the unemployed, which is what you do, to pursue the unemployed. Why don't they chase companies and hire unemployed? Why don't you chase companies that do 10 hours or 12 hours? Why don't you chase those companies where Mr. Feijóo is going – which, by the way, will be where you have to go now, because it seems that, after the result in Galicia, in Madrid, it will be difficult to do so. Why don't you pursue these companies where Mr. Feijóo presents 12-hour employment programmes – which work 12-hours! – and which do not comply with the Staff Regulations as to the time between the day and the day? Why don't they? On the other hand, it includes in axis 1 guidance: control of the fraud of unemployment benefits. Because you blame the unemployed. Why don't you say that now there are more unemployed people who don't charge anything than those who charge a benefit? Those are the realities of their situation. Why does it not say that in axis 6, improvement of the institutional process – that is 6 of this policy – there is a program that says: framework agreement with private placement agencies. In your 6th axis, you said nothing; you agreed frame with private placement agencies. We're privatizing unemployment management. We're privatizing the management of our stops. Why? Because you buy with the unemployed, you think the unemployed are meat and you have to trade with her for the lowest price. But we can continue. That's 5, self-employment, self-employment. Why don't you say we're the worst community in the first quarter with regard to the destruction of self-employment? Why don't you think that while in 2014 the state as a whole has increased autonomous employment by 2.5 % here just grew by 1.5%? Why don't you suggest that these programs here at the end aren't paid? Why don't you say, when there's that youth self-employment promotion program, that when they happen, they can't afford that flat 100 euros fee on their bank, they have to pay 100% of the grant? Why don't you say that? Even if they don't pay it, is it that if they're going to charge on their bank, there's not 100 euros, it turns out they have to pay 100% of the grant? Why don't you tell how many took the grant? Those are your programs. But we can keep talking. That 4, equal opportunities. What is the concept of equal opportunities for a counselor who includes in his equal opportunities axis the following: "support for labour mobility"? Do you call it "equal opportunities," so that people can be mobilized from their jobs whenever they want, to foreign mobility? Because they also talk about mobility with Eures and northern Portugal. What does equality have to do with mobility? Do you call equality of opportunity this young woman from Galicia to work abroad? But are they taking our hair? But we can go on, we can go on. That's 3, job opportunities. Not a single program for older than 45 years. Do you know what is the drama of the 45-year-olds who were fired for their job reform? They can't find a job again. Do you know what is the reality of the 45-year-olds dismissed to those who besides you take away the benefit, and the difficulties in charging those benefits for the more than 52? The truth is, they're talking about poverty; in many cases, about a very precarious economic situation, with children of school age. Not a single program in that 3 of that situation. What are you going to do? You haven't even read the programs that you're putting into this situation. But where it's already to laugh or cry is when we talk about axis 2, formation. You're telling me that you're going to increase training policies and, above all, employment workshops. Did you hurt the data from your government's employment workshops? Did it hurt? The data in the IGE: in 2009 there were 3,254 employment workers in Galicia; in 2013 – last data in the IGE – 1,079, 2,000 job workers less. But what are you talking about? Why are they trying to fool people when their policy – and this is the problem – is the only thing they want to do is continue with the policies that lead us to the real situation, which is that Galicia is the fourth community in which most jobs have been destroyed since you took possession. They're not our data, they're INE data. Let's not converge on employment with the rest of the state. You're the most destructive community, just in front of both Castillas. Why don't you mention that in the preamble to that employment plan, you say that you have to have the concrete evaluation and funding of each question? Not the evaluation of the previous year. You say you went to a meeting with the Ministry to do the evaluation. Where is the evaluation in the formal documents of this council? There is no evaluation, because the evaluation would be that we have the worst employment data in the whole state -- well, the worst not, the fourth in the queue -- that we have destroyed more autonomous employment than the rest of the state, that we have a much worse wage situation than that of the whole state, and that, in addition, half of the unemployed in this country does not receive any benefits. Where is that issue in its model of prior and necessary evaluation for programmes? Yes, yes, ask, call your advisor, who's in the gallery, and ask where the evaluation is. Because the reality is that this evaluation doesn't exist, it's not on the table...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u66	It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u67	...it's not on the table! So, from our group, we ask you a question. First we encourage her to rejoice, because, even though they're sad, those who are going to change things are coming, those who are going to work for decent jobs and with rights. But I ask you the question: in the evaluation of the 2014 program, with specific data, how many of those who activated that program found a job? How many of these, in addition, were a stable job? Tell me the wages of these workers and workers, tell me that the number of autonomouss received the help shown in the program, but also tell me how many they had to pay it back because one day they didn't have a balance on their bank account. That's the fundamental data. And it's not data that only asks you for this organization, it's data that asks you for social dialogue, because social dialogue has just made a critical document about this plan by asking where the 2014 evaluation is and where the funding is being monitored. Because I remind you that last year you stopped executing 45% of the funds devoted to this issue. Well, when the official role comes, we'll see it, but the reality is that in the last documents we have, 45%.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u68	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u69	The only thing that's fake and lies in this Parliament is that you're the Employment Counsellor. You're Galician unemployment advisor, and we're very sorry, but he's barely a year and a half left.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u70	Thank you very much. Socialist Group. You have a word with Mrs. Quintas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u71	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, Counselor. I see that your report and the opposition's interventions are of little interest in the PP's ranks. In a way, when you intervened, I was talking about the repeated interest that the president of the board had in ending up with inherited unemployment. Yes, we all remember that he said that in forty days he fixed the problem – and precisely the president of the board was not a new person in politics – and the unfortunate thing was that he spent only four seconds on his next investment speeches. Finally, employment was not a priority – boredom, Counselor – for the People's Party. Then you talk here about the pace of unemployment, etc. They twist the figures, they put on the table some extreme successes that are absolutely at the expense of precariousness, of unskilled jobs, and, unfortunately, many of these unskilled jobs are performed by people and young people for whom this country itself has used money to form them, but they have to be in unskilled jobs, and, of course, by the emigration of young people, who don't even care about that large amount of human capital and intellectual capital that goes from Galicia, as if we were left behind. You talk here about the important work you've done. This important job is essentially to reduce budgets and expel young people from Galicia. That's the most important work the People's Party Government has ever done. There is something surprising going on: unemployment, fewer budgets; unemployment, less interest in implementing active employment policies. So they stop torturing figures, Counselor, because you are achieving more poverty in this country, more immigration, more disprotection for workers, more precariousness and more misery. Galicia is even one of the most autonomous communities that is less... not even, is that it is the autonomous community that is less converging with the rest of the state – being very bad the state – and, of course, with Europe at all. You come here talking about a series of programs that aren't even so, Counselor, they're approved. They make an appearance to request that we explain Galicia's Annual Employment Policy Plan, and in this respect we are surprised by some questions. They are measures taken at the beginning of the year and they are measures of a repetitive nature and with not too much news. It is also surprising that the counsellor's presence is requested after the municipal elections. Counsellor, I don't know if the German Government has anything better than to put in front of citizenship, after the municipal elections, employment policies; that says a lot about the German Government, or if anyone wanted to come in, Counsellor. That means the German Government's got a public position amortized, doesn't it? Are employment policies the best you can offer us right now the Government of Greece? I wonder if it's the best you can... Because, of course, Counselor, we ask on numerous occasions for your presence and you did not appear. They are presenting action programmes which now appear to be included in the designation of an annual plan, which, as such, is unknown to Parliament, from which no documents have been sent and of which there is no news. It is regrettable that you do not respect, Counselor, nor the formal aspects of this House. On the other hand, if we look at the information issued by the Government, there are actions of around €105 million in total, which would benefit, at best, 160,000 people. If well, more than half, according to the Council – about 85,000 – would correspond to people who receive employment guidance. You have biloles, Madam Counsellor, that the Labour Council will come here to talk about employment guidance or even training courses, Counsellor, when you expelled the work guides, privatized and really didn't give any importance to what was the work orientation to facilitate employment. On the other hand, there are the government's plans for employment. I don't know if you, when you come to put the predictions on the table, you know they're false, or if your ineffectiveness really doesn't make all the forecasts not meet. In the end, Counsellor, Advertising and propaganda; advertising and propaganda that mean absolute contempt for citizenship and its problems. Let's remember the Government of the People's Party predictions: lower the unemployment rate to 20.1% by 2015. For now, the official data is that we're 21.8%. You, Counselor, as I said before, what happens? It's impossible that there's so much ineffectiveness. We understand that these are perhaps already intended predictions. In any case, they're always disillusioned with their forecasts. Galicia has the worst unemployment behaviour in all autonomous communities; it also has the worst behaviour with regard to the European Union. They've been in government for seven years in this country, distributing promises, offering unreal data, but putting a miserable management on the table. They've been running for years to account for the real balance of their management. About 500,000 people went through courses and were beneficiaries or objects of the policies that you performed. We already know what the Work Council did with the training courses. So what you're getting ahead of here in principle is not adjusted, because in six years the Labour Council could perfectly regulate training policies and it seems that until they ended up in the courts there was no way to regulate those policies. The reality is different. The true reality in Galicia is that it has increased unemployment in more than 100,000 people, which has reduced the population occupied in more than 180,000 people, that wage perceptions are the lowest and do not compensate for the increase in inflation. There was a huge job precariousness; youth, as I said at the beginning of my intervention, had to leave Galicia to try to find work. It is true that this youth does not – that youth who goes away – enter its unemployment figures and that social protection levels have fallen and reverted to decades before. This is the real balance, Madam Counsellor, of Government Feijóo's employment policies. The president of the state, Mr. Rajoy, was asked recently: "Who talks about unemployment today?Ssh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh I don't know where the President of the State and also the President of the Government of Galicia live, because it doesn't matter today to unemployment, it seems to me little less than a lack of respect. And besides, CIS says for citizenship...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u72	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u73	...is the main problem, which is the main problem you have. We, Counselor, think the politics of this government are of concern to us. As I told you, as the number of unemployed increases the budget of the Employment Council for active policies. They repeat programs, failure to manage... even with those little funds that you, Counsellor, don't even afford the luxury of running the games; the decrease from 421 million euros in 2009 to 387 million in 2010. But by this 2015 the amount is 193 million. So, more unemployed, less budgeting. But, Counsellor, who sets those priorities at the expense...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u74	Finish, Mrs. Thursdays, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u75	...–Fixed, Madam President– is the Government of the People's Party. And, said this, I repeat, Counselor, not only do they budget less, not only when they come to account, lie, twist accounts, and do not execute the budget. And I ask you the same question again, Counselor: after these municipal elections, in which I suppose the People's Party Government had the forecasts it had...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u76	Finish, Mrs. Thursdays, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u77	...work policies are the best you can teach us the Government of Galicia?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u78	Thank you very much. People's Parliamentary Group. You have the word Mr. Miguel Tellado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u79	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, everyone. It is not wrong, Mrs Quintas, to be concerned about the annual employment policy plan and to be interested in the People's Group. Perhaps what awakens little interest is your intervention, seeing the lack of rigour in the data you contributed, which was basically zero, sky! You speak of Galicia as the community that has the worst behaviour with unemployment. Hey! But you know Andalusia? You rule. But how he speaks! [[Murmurs.]] Anyway, you're talking about a lack of forecast. They're talking about the Socialist Party's failure to predict. Hey, it's just that in 2008 you presented yourselves to general elections promising full employment, and what they generated was full unemployment, nearly 3 million unemployed. That's what you guys did. Counselor, don't worry, the opposition will protest: if it comes because it comes and, if it doesn't come, because it doesn't come, but they come here with a speech already made, the case is to protest. And we're used to this opposition, that you come here with pamphlets, say what the government member says, because I'm sure Mrs. Quintas didn't hear anything at all. The advisor has just announced an increase of 14% of the funds that the State is giving Galicia this year for active employment policies, from 100 million to 114 million in 2015, and the opposition is carefree; nothing has been said about this. Counsellor, I think this increase in funds is, of course, good news for Galicia. It is good news because it indicates, without a doubt, that the Union is implementing the funds of the active employment policies and, secondly, because these funds will allow for the development of new support measures for people who want access to the labour market. In the annual plan of what the adviser told us, these 40 million are intended for training for the unemployed, 15 million are intended for the 77 job workers set up with so many other municipalities, and for those who will benefit 2,000 pupils, and the various orders: integrated employment programmes, training for the unemployed, dual training, recruitment of risk-perceptors – since this year it has increased, if it doubles, from 5 million to 10 million euros and thus doubles the number of beneficiaries – and finally, important lines of work have been presented by the opposition. You know, Counsellor, that of all these programs the opposition does not speak, the opposition does not recognize what is done or proposes specific programs or alternative programs, because the opposition is installed in that catastrophe interested in what they are so well at; this catastrophe interested is based primarily on denying economic recovery and absolutely denying everything: we live in the worst country in the world, with the worst policies in the world. That's the apocalyptic panorama. It's all the fault of the People's Party. The Bipartite never existed, Counselor, it's an invention of the People's Party. We rule all our lives in Galicia and Spain, that's reality. It's an invention by the People's Party. From Zapatero, Counselor, you can't talk because you're upset about the United Left, who are here to fatten the Socialist Party. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] That's a bit the synthesis of everything we've heard in the last few minutes. That's the opposition, Counselor, those who denied the crisis; today they refuse recovery. And those of us who used to shut up the socialists in a complicity now make the choirs of those who took Spain with 3 million unemployed. Let each one bear his own responsibility! For good reason they don't want us to talk about either inheritances or bipartisans or recovery, those who would prefer Spain to be worse for them to be better; those who would prefer Galicia to be worse for them to be better. The truth is, to those losers what we have to tell them is that today we're better than a year ago than two years ago and better than three years ago. Slowly, of course, but we're getting out of the crisis, as much as bothering them. And it's not a merit of government, it's not a merit of the Government of Spain, nor is it a merit of the Government of Galicia, it's an achievement of the whole of citizenship, which has made sacrifices so that today we can say that the situation is improving, and that's what bothers you. That's why we're concerned about their attitude, because those who created the crisis are the same ones that now deny recovery, and they bother us not because they deny what the Government is doing – the Government of Spain and the Government of the Union – is that they are denying the effort of the whole society of this country. And we're proud of our country and everything we've achieved among all of us, and we're going to say it clearly, so we're not prepared to take any step back in the fight against the crisis. Proud of our country, we have to say that today in Spain there are 570,000 people working for social security who were unemployed a year ago; proud in our country we have to say that today 82,000 young people under the age of 30 are working and that one year ago they were unemployed; proud of our country they have to recognize, along with us, that today in Galicia there are 25,000 unemployed who are working and that a year ago they were unemployed; 25,000 unemployed less. We're faced with a positive fact and you'll have to recognize it because when I rule this Bipartite who never existed unemployment in the last year, the reason for 51,000 people a year. For all this, we are proud of our country; you don't want to recognize that reality. The advisor gave some frankly interesting data 13 consecutive months with positive figures at the annual rate of membership of Social Security: 18 months of consecutive downloads at the annual rate of unemployment. The percentage of employees with indefinite contracts has grown – although you say otherwise – from 68.9% in 2007 to 76.4% today. All of this doesn't matter to you. I do not accept the concern of Alternative Left Galeg for unemployment because the same ones who say they are worried about unemployment soon propose closing companies, is the usual speech. They want to close the Mugardos gas plant; they want to close the thermal power plant of the Bridge, which feeds many families; they want to close the Ence and collapse the entire forest sector of Galicia and the wealth of many families; they want to stop the train to the outer port of Ferrol; they are against the aeronautics of the complex of Rozas, in Castro de Rey; they are against the marine windmill, in Ferrol; they are against Povvisa, who here want to close it day and day; and now they openly criticize Citroën. Let's go, that if you ever ruled in Galicia, they'd put thousands of Greeks to death, that's the reality. So we don't accept those lessons. I wanted to answer some questions you've raised. Mrs Iglesias, from the Joint Group, spoke about stability. Home!, talking about stability... stability is that a member is part of his group throughout his term of office; stability is to have the votes to rule. Don't talk about stability, you're the one who wants to rewrite the story, and now it turns out that the Bipartite was a shock and that the blame is for it by the Greeks, who didn't want to vote for it in 2009. Well, I don't understand. Mr. Fajardo, you spoke – which we forgot – of the long-term unemployed. It's not true, you forget the Active program, directed precisely to that collective. So, I am glad, by the way, that he has changed his speech and that he now joins those we always defend social dialogue. In recent plenary sessions you openly criticized the unions sitting at the tables of social dialogue in Galicia and also in Spain, I would like to congratulate you on this change of speech. And, of course, it's just that BNG now bothers this government to support entrepreneurs. It is that we will continue to support entrepreneurs, of course yes, and we have made an entrepreneurial law in Galicia to facilitate it, of course yes; of course we will continue to bet in that sense. You talked about skills in active employment policies, but you're wrong, Galicia has transferred competences running active employment policies – running. It seems good to us that there is coordination between the autonomous communities and the state. You speak in terms of vassalage, submission, we, of course, believe that the unemployed in our country don't understand that speech. And you were talking about data, but, of course, it didn't concrete; data from the EPA, first quarter of 2015 – it was to finish – it increased occupation, 4,500 more busy; it dropped unemployment, 21,200 fewer unemployed; it dropped unemployment rate, we are at 21,8, two points less than the average of Spain – miss Thursdays, twelve points less than its referent, Andalusia –; it dropped the number of homes with all its members unemployed, Mrs. Thursdays, it went down to Galicia...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u80	It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u81	...6,600 minus; dropped the youth unemployment rate, four points less in the last year; we are six points below the average of Spain. Mrs. Thursday, 18 points less than in Andalusia. That's your reference. I'm done. Today the German Government has appeared in this House to announce that in this exercise we will have more funds for active employment policies. Counsellor, you have a message: we, from the People's Group, welcome this to happen. The opposition is upset, they'd prefer Galicia to get worse so they could get better. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u82	Thank you very much, Mr. Tellado. Replica from the Work and Wellness Advisor, Mrs. Beatriz Mato.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u83	Thank you very much, President. For yes, Mr. Tellado, of course, there is a lot of chorus to do at the moment, many palms to touch, because, indeed, we wish great understandings in many of our cities, which I am convinced, moreover, that they will not only be great but also fruitful between, for example, the Socialist Party and even... I don't know if they are tides, if they are Podemos, if they are AGE... I don't know, as they're called, obviously, but I'm convinced that they're gonna be as successful as it was...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u84	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u85	...the two-party government between the Socialist Party and... [[Murmurs.]] Every member of the Government as part of the Government is also a member of a political formation, of course, that defends a project and defends a line of action, which is the one we are developing from the Government of Galicia, and this line of action, which has to do with showing not only our commitment but also our actions, it has to do with today the Government of Galician Union is going to appear with the main concern, which gives the chance that it is not only the main one, but the only concern you have before and after the municipal elections, from the first minute of the year 2009 until now, Mrs. Quintas. Obviously, this is not the best that the Government of Galicia can introduce, but it is the most important that the Government of Galicia can present. And, man! of course, there are many of the claims that have developed throughout this exhibition that are not that they are lack of rigour is that they are absolutely false. Therefore, it is appropriate for the Greeks to know that this is the position in which the opposition parties – the opposition parties, by the way, because, in fact, this government is here until 2016 because it was elected by the Greeks and by the Greeks –... because, of course, a number of absolutely false claims have been made. The first of all is the execution of the budget of this employment adviser, which was a execution that was around 93% of the total execution...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u86	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u87	...of employment...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u88	I'm sorry. Ladies and gentlemen, if you want to intervene, give your group the turn, please! You have the word, Counselor, and forgive me.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u89	Besides, I am especially surprised that in this House there are very experienced people not only in their work as a Member of Parliament, but also as a member of the Government, who has worked in two-party governments and they know perfectly well how they publish and when the executions are published and, therefore, the reality of executions, and I don't understand now how it can be a surprise. A few statements have also been made on whether or not we say good-bye or not. For, of course, it was not this Government of the Council of Galicia which dismissed guidance, but it was the Government of Mr Zapatero who hired temporary guidance officers, who did not make temporary appointments, who did not make temporary temporary officials, who, of course, completed their work and that we have requested this year to hire 150 more guidance officers now for the employment offices to do that important work that our unemployed people need. There are, of course, other claims linked, for example, to emigration that do not see the published by the Galego Institute of Statistics. I'm convinced that there's a clear intention to twist the figures, but I invite anyone who goes to the official INE pages and even the IGE pages to see the way out of our kids in our community and to see that it's absolutely fake that it's now when more kids in the community go away, but it was exactly in 2007. And so I could invest – not waste, not waste – my time in this intervention to undo all the lies that were posed by the opposition. But, of course, I'm going to focus on the most important, which are those 244,000 unemployed in our community, for whom we are working today. And when I say that there's a different situation in our community and that we're on the path of growth, not to say, but to accompany the data. It's true that right now there are 66% less workers affected by ERE than there was in the previous quarter of 2005. The reality is that there are 20,000 more employees, and it's also a reality that there are 3,800 more autonomous in the last year, and also that the data on unemployment recorded in April have been the best since 1996. I'm convinced that the unemployment figures this May will also be more positive than last year, because Galicia is now experiencing similar times as in 2012. And not only that, but I ratify the announcement made by the Minister of Labour that in our community there will be 31,000 – close to 32,000 – jobs at the end of this year, which will mean that the community will end the year with the employment figures that were in the first quarter of 2007. Even so, of course, with regard to the unemployment rate he was talking about, Mrs. Quintas, we are still in May and, therefore, Mrs. Quintas, I invite you to spend the year talking about the unemployment rate at which our community will close. Even so, if we look at all the contracts, the employment contracts in our community – and I say it again so as not to get me wrong – we'll see that the percentage of employees in the first quarter of 2007 with indefinite contract was 68.9%, and now that percentage in the first quarter of 2015 is 76.4%; that is, seven more points, and, in addition, if we take into account the type of daytime of the Greek workers, 84.9%; said by the survey of active population to which it sometimes appeals to the opposition. 84.9 % are on a full-day basis, which means 1.2 % more points above the state average. However, of course, we have to keep working for these 244,000 people. In this we are every day, at this moment, and from the minute one that we have reached the Government, to develop all the measures we understand to favour the economic recovery of our community and is already a reality, and of course they favor the employability of our workers, as are the measures that we have developed in the Annual Plan of Employment this community, which is committed to the Government of the State, and as are the collectives for whom we have done special fincapé since the Government of the Council of Galicia, which is the Youth Employment Plan, with 19 specific measures and 100 million euros, which have benefited 48,000 young people and which, of course, have converted our community in 2014 into the community where we have made the lowest unemployment among under 25 years; the supplementary Youth Guarantee Programme for under the age of 25 years, which was agreed with social agents, and was also Galicia the first to draw up a plan complementary to the government's condition that has also been the rate of long-term unemployed, where, of course, the highest age of 45 years; and the highest interest in the most important; There has never been a youth employment plan in our community before, there has never been a population dynamisation plan in our community before, for something will be; it will be because they didn't care. And we have made it, of course, by introducing in this plan important new developments in employment orders, such as the specific one for self-employed people, for self-employed people who go up, for self-employed people under 30, under 25 years of age; autonomous ones who, by the way, are about 15 % unique and exclusively, having the latest data from the year 2012, are the only ones who do not continue with the activity. 15 percent of the self-employed who received a grant do not continue with the activity, as stipulated by the legislation two years later. An order that, of course, for children under 30 years of age, benefited 730 boys in 2014 and which gives them an economic coverage of all the social security contributions of the first year of the under 30 years of age from being raised as self-employed. And of course we'll bet and we'll keep betting on training, because we know that in our community around 67% of the unemployed have very low education. It is therefore essential to continue to bet on these people, to improve their training and employment opportunities. In particular, training for unemployed people, such as the training as a whole, has an investment of 70 million euros, which is specifically linked to the unemployed, where there are, among other things, formulae such as the employment workers, where we believe that we continue to develop them, because of their role and even because of the training and the opportunity to work given to the workers, and of course another series of training measures, such as those we are developing in the centres owning the Union of Galicia, such as those we are developing for the first time – that we had not done before – in the centres of the Education Council, where we increase the budget for collaboration with the Education Council so that in public centres, using the human resources we have, their knowledge and also physical resources, we can also provide training to the unemployed, training for employment, and, of course, the aid order – which is like a novelty – for students and students of these training courses, of 4 million euros. And also two new lines of help to train in ICTs, in languages and to give professional certificates, in this case linked to young people under the age of 25, and also to long-term unemployed. And yet, of course, another tool, such as integrated employment programmes, with 5.7 million euros, leaving it to the end that, after the main concern we have about employment, which is to fight – as it cannot be otherwise – against these unemployment rates, is also to help those who are worst going through it, as are people who would benefit from social integration income, where for the first time in our community are now having a chance for 1,000 people to have a job through the municipalities; job that will improve their employability and also their opportunities to enter the labour market. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u90	Thank you very much. Special round of clarifications. For the Joint Group, Mrs Iglesias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u91	Thank you, President. Counsellor, I find it very nice to say that you care and don't listen to Mr. Tellado when he says: Counselor, don't worry that the whole fault is the opposition. It seems to me quite right that he had often repeated in the last part of his speech the word he was concerned about. I'm the one who increases the budget for Risk. I'm afraid you want me to tell you, because you didn't charge a lot of people who had to charge it or increased the beneficiaries who found it in that situation. I repeat: the unemployment lists are down. And they go down because they increase emigration. That is a fact that is shown in all newspapers. Another fact: Spain is the country where inequality has been accentuated most and, within Spain, the Galician community to which most. This is also a data that La Voz de Galicia brought before yesterday. I advise you to worry too and to find out that tides are called "great citizens"; it's organised citizenship to put down these ruthless governments of citizenship and their rights. That's why we're organized. I'm informing her what the tides are, as she says she doesn't know. And be careful to see if they're gonna drown her, if they don't know what they are, because they're taking a lot of force! Let's see, Mr. Tellado says we're not proud of our country and our people. It's gonna be okay! Those who are not proud and mistreat the country and its people, their language, their environment and their culture are you, who behind them reject the initiatives that present the opposition for Galicia's good, and could be a little more consensual. On the other hand, Mr. Tellado, you don't know what you understand by stability, but I understand that democracy is plural, and that's what gives stability to the democratic system, plurality, and not the monolithic rock that you exercise with the knee of your majority. Also another thing I want to insist on is when it says they create jobs: what conditions are they creating jobs?, what kind of contracts? People are not happy, and, in fact, they have the municipal elections. By the way, how did they get their body? They shouldn't have liked him very much. I'm sorry, but the election results certainly reflect a citizen's discontent that should be taken into account. Don't congratulate yourself on these policies, please do a little self-criticism. And I pray: don't mistreat social service workers, they're women abused by the administration: they don't charge wages, they suffer from slavery, and they don't consider co-responsibility, reconciliation; they're a women's maltreatment department -- and if I have to withdraw it, I withdraw it, but I have to say, I'm very sorry. And I don't have much more to say, because you give yourself an autobomb that there's no way you can accept criticism and assume them to transform your political actions, for the benefit of the whole country. They're talking about companies they want, about contaminants. Did you read the book of Galeano Open veins from Latin America? In Galicia something very similar is happening, yes, they're polishing the country to take the money out, and then here bread for today and hungry for tomorrow. That's the result of your policies, and I'm telling you with all due respect because, just as you don't know about the tides, you don't seem to know about the situation in which Greek citizenship is found. But it's time for him to find out, eh!, he's been exercising the Government for a long time. We are interested in everyone who learns, for the sake of the country and also for the good of this Parliament. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u92	Thank you, Mrs Iglesias. Mrs. Prado, by the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u93	Mrs. Mato, the data we have, the ones that make it easier – because, as everyone already knows, from now on this government is not characterized by facilitating the information we have right in this Parliament – they say that the programs linked to the promotion of employment are those of the lowest execution of the entire German Government, Mrs. Mato, although you come here on the question of which is the highest occupation of the Government, but the reality is that it is not. See, improving and promoting usability did not run 33% of the budget, with the data you provided. They lie in the data, because it's your responsibility. Look, in the middle and in the middle of the job, they didn't run 36%, or they didn't run 68% of the job qualification improvement. That's the data you provided. If they lie or do not transfer them properly, it will be their responsibility. I, of course, do not cease to scandalize myself that you want to assume the situation of the labour market in our country. I've already told you on other occasions that it's really disgusting to see the labour market that we have; a labour market where unemployment falls, but the people employed don't increase, Mrs Mato. This should lead her to think a little bit about exactly what this means. It lowers unemployment, i.e., the registered people go down, but not because they believe in work but because many no longer sign up and many others go to emigration. You should go around the United Kingdom, go around London, and you'd see how many Greeks and Greeks meet, without looking for them – and I don't want to tell you whether you've bothered to look for them – or for Germany, or for Switzerland. So you keep saying here that it's a lie that people emigrate, but reality is stubborn, and the young and young people in this country continue to emigrate massively, as long as you still come here saying that the problem of youth being unemployed is because of their low qualification. He knows that the vast majority of those who emigrate are overqualified, that it's not a problem that they're not qualified. You keep lying over and over again. The reality is that working conditions are low: low working terms, changing the type of daytime, reducing wages, and this leads to a massive drop in working class income. What kind of job is being created in our country? What kind of job? Well, look, where there was a person who paid 1,500 euros, they fired that person, hired two people in part-time, who then worked full-time, and each of these people paid 400 euros. Business round to the businessman! because where there was a contract of 1,400 there are two of 400. He saves 700 and still collects those aids that you make easier for him to work as a slave. And so, full business for the employer and his friends, not for the working class in Galicia, not for the young and young people in this country and not for the women in this country, which in their vast majority are those who have much more precarious working conditions. Look, 929,500 quoteers when you returned to the Government, after a three-and-a-half-year parenthesis. How many are there right now? There are now 929,500, 225,000 less than when you arrived at the Government, Mrs Mato; 225,829 persons less affiliated to Social Security, contributors, Mrs Mato. Despite...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u94	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u95	...that the reality of the labour market is that there are people who don't count as unemployed, who work only hours a month, or days. If we had time, we could make here a big deal of what that situation is. Look, yes, 100,000 more people are part-time in our country, but not because I want to, Mrs. Mato, but because it's the only kind of contract they find in part-time. And it turns out there are 72,000 people who, despite their work, are looking for better jobs. You think it's a whim? No, it's because the job they have doesn't give them to live, because the job they have is part-time, with wages of misery, and it doesn't give them to live; with which, they're looking for another contract to be able to arrive at the end of the month. That's the labour market you have right now, with your policies, installed in our country; a labour market of poverty, of precariousness, of low wages; that working does not mean being able to live properly, it means being equal in poverty and being poor. Those are the policies that you should fight, and, far from doing so, it's still installed in a disgusting propaganda policy, Mrs. Mato, it's disgusting!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u96	Thank you very much, Mrs. Prado. For the Parliamentary Group of the Alternative Glaga de Left has the word Mr. Juan Manuel Fajardo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u97	Well, good day again. I never thought I'd tell you this from this rostrum, Mrs. Mato, but you certainly kill me every time, and it's not love, it's not love, it's disloyal to political activity and to your advice. Because, of course, one, who lived with Barrio Sésamo, misses a Sésamo Barrio for political leaders, where they explain that it is left and right, where they explain that it is mostly social and that it is social minority, where they explain it is a tide. Taunted are those who threw their black friend from the Town Hall, for example. I mean, it's good that a political person is responsible, but at least he should show some interest in the political reality of this country. But also about the political reality of your administrations, because you are responsible for the employment of this country, and of course one cannot allow you to come here to defend a reality that is false, which is false! You said the opposition was wrong, but it didn't give a single clue as to what it was wrong. But I give you the EPA data: only in this quarter, 12,900 jobs less in Galicia. That's a data from the EPA that's very pale. If you can't tell that you're lowering unemployment log numbers as well as reducing the number of jobs, then you have a problem with linguistic understanding, as I sometimes do. And that means, in many cases, that people in this country are marching, that they're getting discouraged, that they're not pointing to the unemployment lists. Why? Because there's no alternative to your policies. And man! Mr. Tellado, frankly, I feel you dizzy; he is dizzy and recovers his speech from ever, and precisely today I think it's not the day; it's not the day for you to speak of Andalusia. Tell us about Madrid, Barcelona, about your Ferrol, about these things. Don't go to the usual: that we are apocalyptics. The opposition is apocalyptic, citizenship is also apocalyptic because it wants to sweep them out of the middle. It's so apocalyptic that I had to think very much today about not taking the cuffs and a float and handing it over to each of the PP members. I thought it -- I had them at home because I have enough -- but I didn't want to do it because the reality is that today you are, yes, drowning, but for a long time they drowned people: they drowned all those unemployed people who live today under the poverty line; they drowned those workers who are today poor workers, who didn't exist before you arrived at the governments; they drowned all those who took their wages off to hand them over to the big businessmen. Because you explain to me how in a place where it's said to be a barbarity the 1% wage increase pact IBEX 35 companies have increased their profits by 49%. With your inequality, those who have tax havens earn 49% more. Families, workers, pensioners and employees are in misery because of their poverty, their policies, employment plans they haven't even read – because it's indecent that they don't read employment plans. Because today we are talking about this PAPE – which is, by the way, hung on the Ministry's website, not the Council, which is an indecency in political terms – and the employer of the PP comes here without looking at it and says that this PAPE of what we're talking about today – for what you asked for, that never goes the opposition's request but the proper request of what this advisor gives you – does not have a single program destined for more than 45 years, those who are excluded from the labour market and are sentenced to death. Where is he? Tell me who it is. In axis 3, employment options, of the 17 jobs we're talking about today, not one. On the other hand, these axes do include a specific program to pursue the unemployed, to pursue them! Those unemployed who charge four hundred euros and peak euros, you pursue us, because, of course, those of four hundred and peaks cheat, not Basel, the People's Party, neither, but those of 425 must pursue them. They are indecent in political terms because they pursue the weak, they massacre the weak, while they allow the big industries to...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u98	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u99	...increase your benefits by policies like yours. By the way, the tide doesn't know if it comes from when I'm holding the college doors when I was a member of the CAF; I don't know if it comes to him. Because in that too, you have to know where each one comes from; you have to be clear where each one comes from and how one is capable of being a cashier of the CAF and suddenly being a cashier of PP policies. Well, each one will have his own principles. I have them very clear. It seems that many of the People's Party don't have them so clear. The reality is that you haven't put on the table or just one of the specific measures that will serve to change things, because I give you another data: that data that means 13,000 jobs less than in a quarter comes from an employment plan that has been clicked on this previous year; clicked, where there are few changes. So you insist on the mistake in those employment policies that lead this country to disaster, which lead this country to unacceptable employment figures and especially underemployment. Where's the program to control ERE getting the work days done?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u100	Finish it, Mr. Fajardo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u101	Where is the program to control overtime? Well, that's what we claim from this option. And by the way, we'll try to get you some DVD to distinguish where a tide is and where it's not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u102	Socialist Group, Mrs. Quintas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u103	Thank you, Madam President. Look, Counselor and Mr. Employment Spokesman, I think you've already said anything without the slightest redness. Get the attention that someone says a learned speech is brought here when you come to talk about: it's past Andalusia, analyze the data. Counsellor, level of execution, function 32, promotion of employment. In 2014 they left behind 85 million euros, 31%; in 2013 they left behind 98 million euros, 35%; in 2012 they left behind 104 million euros, 29%; in 2011 they left behind 160 million euros, 33%; in 2010 they left behind 152 million euros, 28%. Counsellor, do you think this country, the unemployed in this country, the aged 45, the young people, the women in this country, deserves the employment policy that you and Mr. Feijó have given us for seven years? Directly proportional is the increase in unemployment and you lower the budget, but what is already unqualified is that they don't even execute it. In short, Madam Counsellor, out of every 3 euros existing, 1 of them has not been executed. Do you think this country deserves that? This government cuts and makes it unjustifiably precarious because also, man!, it's amazing that you come here to talk about the control of training courses. It's surprising, Madam Counsellor, after what we've had to read, what we've had to see, and the statements of Operation Zeta that you come here to assume control of training courses. I'm not really able to qualify for it, and what happens to me would remove the president of the Journal of Sessions. They haven't been executed in their annual years since you govern 770 million euros, while young people in this country go away, while poverty increases, while working conditions are unsustainable and precarious, while public services are cut off and public squares are amortized. That you, that the German Government, consider that the first appearance after an election is that of the Labour Adviser to report on employment, Counselor, is that you have no friends in the Government, you don't have them. The latest figures indicate that unemployment in Galicia is rising, and it's not worth twisting. We have 275,700 unemployed people in Galicia, representing a quarterly increase of 11,900 people. This government has been over six years. They love the spokespersons of the People's Party and love the German Government to come here in memory. Then it seems bad to you when we speak of historical memory and memory, it seems very bad to you, and you have to remove it, but you don't have to be bluffed because they're incapacitated and ineffective.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u104	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u105	...Mr. Counselor, to come to blame. I've told them many times before. You come here to amend yourself, you are heir to yourself. The People's Party is destroying this country, and what's more serious, you don't care, Counselor. Because it's true that we live in times of crisis, because it's true that there are problems, but what is unjustifiable is that you don't even run the budget you have, which is unjustifiable is that you make budgets in which the games that are most diminished are precisely the ones that affect the people in this country, and you give them the same thing. We could continue to give data, Counselor, but the reality, the accounts, are accounts and not accounts, and the accounts are the budgets...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u106	Finish it, Mrs. Quintas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u107	...and the budgets are public and the accounts are the data of the unemployed, and the accounts are the young people who are kicking this country and who aren't even on the unemployment lists.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u108	Thank you very much, Mrs. Quintas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u109	Yes, Counsellor, because when a young man studies, he prepares to work and has no chance and he has to leave, you don't care, because when an older person, who has spent his whole life...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u110	Finish, Mrs. Thursdays, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u111	...stay on unemployment at 45 years of age and you don't care, what are you doing?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u112	Thank you very much, Mrs. Quintas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u113	What are they doing?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u114	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u115	Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u116	Popular Group, Mr Tellado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u117	Thank you, Madam President. For what we are doing is the opposite of what the Socialist Party has done to create three million unemployed in this country, exactly the opposite. [[Applause]] You want us to talk about election results and of course we're going to do it. We make self-criticism, of course, we can read the election results of last Sunday, indeed. [[Murmurs.]] We're sure we're suffering...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u118	Mrs. Quintas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u119	...an electoral retreat – don't get nervous – for wear that is supposed to manage the biggest economic crisis in the last thirty years. But, unfortunately, we are the first party in Galicia, we have won in the four provinces, and we are the first political force in three of the seven major cities in Galicia. [[Murmurs.]] As much as bothers you, Mr. Fajardo, we have removed 148 absolutes from the 314 municipalities of Galicia, and we have brought out 55 simple ones. [[Murmurs.]] It's results that don't satisfy us but, of course, don't tell me that you won the municipal elections last Sunday because it's not true. [[Applause]] And, Mrs. Quintas, speaking of municipal elections, but you, the socialists, what do you assume?, what do you gain by losing your votes?, Presuming of that?, what have you become the third political force... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u120	Mrs. Quintas, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u121	...in Ferrol, Coruña, Santiago, Ourense and Pontevedra? Is that what they assume? [[Murmurs.]] Mrs. Quintas, let's focus a little bit and talk about unemployment, and talk about data... [[Murmurs.]] Mr. Fajardo, we, of course, put Galicia above our party, and it is true that we are concerned, but not about the results obtained by the People's Party last Sunday, which, I tell you, are not as bad as you think. We're worried about that instability that will come either by the hand of those tides of which you so much presume. And, look, for once you're going to make me coincide with Mr. Vance when he said that the head must serve for something more than to put a hat on. It certainly is. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Also from the BNG they said in these days of campaign that what's new today is starting to be old... is that it? [[Murmurs.]] I don't know if they say it because you, who presents yourself here as a great renovator, have been a conciliator for 12 years in Vilagarcia, bringing little more, and that now, when this legislation is finished, it will be sixteen. Well, that's the renewal you're offering us. Look, while you're worried about yours, concerned about getting more support and more presence, we're worried about Galicia, working for Galicia to get her out of the crisis. And we are satisfied with the data on the table – EPA data from the first quarter of 2015, which Mrs. Quintas does not know – increases the occupation –4,500 more busy in Galicia, Mrs. Quintas –; has dropped the unemployment rate – 21,000 unemployed less than a year ago –; lowers the unemployment rate – we are two points below the average of Spain, twelve points below her beloved Andalusia..., yes, yes, yes, from her beloved Andalucía –; lowers the number of homes with all her members unemployed –6,600 less than a year ago – and has lowered the youth unemployment rate –4 points less in the last year, 6 points less than the average of Spain, 18 points less than in Andalusia, her beloved Andalusia, her model–. [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] Look, we're not gonna tell them about the Bipartite because if they get bad...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u122	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u123	...we're not going to talk about inheritance because they can't stand it. What we're telling them is that we're working to get Spain out of a crisis that you invented and you denied, and we're working to generate jobs. And today, as much as you care about them, we're on the path of economic recovery, it's all the indicators, the macroeconomics, and also the micro-economics. Today there are people who are benefiting from economic recovery, as much as it bothers you. And, of course, this party, if you have to take the wear of getting this country out of the crisis, take it very gladly because the important thing is economic recovery and people; those that you use to make an opportunistic and interested speech. Those of you who have been unemployed come here and use them as banners to defend their arguments. The difference is that you created this crisis and we worked hard to get out of it... actually, your party... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u124	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u125	So, that triumphalism of what you're doing, we don't even understand it or share it. I suppose soon the Socialist Party gentlemen will come with T-shirts to look more and more like the Podemos lords, those who are now their natural allies. Welcome to the radical left! [[Murmurs.]] I'm sure they'll be very comfortable there. [[Applause]] I suppose Mr. Paco Vázquez will be very worried about the drift that the Socialist Party spokesperson had. [[Applause]] [[Mrs. Quintas Álvarez speaks words which are not perceived.]] Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u126	I don't understand. I suppose you have the right to speak here for yourself, Mrs. Quintas. So, please, we respect the rounds of intervention and the right of everyone and each of the Members and Members of this House to intervene when it comes to them, because it is their parties who decide it here in this rostrum. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And please! [[Murmurs.]] You have the floor, Counselor, to close the debate.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u127	Thank you very much. The truth is that the Galician Parliament should not become a school. This is not the place to teach anyone what it means, for example, the budget committed and the budget paid, what it means to be in D and OK, but, of course, this is something I suppose, Mrs. Quintas, that any of her training that has had the opportunity to pass a government will explain it perfectly, and there she will see that the execution of the budget of this employment council every year was close to 95%, and it was actually the budget paid. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u128	But be quiet, please! You have a call to order.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u129	It is also true that Parliament must not be the school, and this is the truth, but I, just by making an incision, Mrs Churches, so that I may know myself, since it is important that the counselor learn: do you know what it is?, what are you?, mare? AGE? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u130	Counsellor, Counselor... Silence! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Counselor...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u131	...independent?, Left United? Open... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u132	Counselor, please center your intervention.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u133	Marea, AGE, can we...?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u134	Quiet, please, I'm talking to the advisor. Mr. Losada, you have a call to order. I'm talking to the advisor. Counselor, please center your intervention.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u135	So, by trying to clarify who we are here and what representation we have, of course, of what I have to talk about is what we are most concerned about, which are all employment policies. The data they are... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u136	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u137	Me too.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u138	Silence! Counselor, please continue.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u139	But no insults. No, no, no, it's machismo. Well, let's keep going. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u140	Mrs. Quintas, you have another call to order.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u141	Focusing on the subject, there's a figure that's important...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u142	Please, Counselor, excuse me for a moment. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Let's see, I... silence, please, Mrs. Piñeiro and Mrs. Romero, please. I'm the only one I appeal to is the responsibility of all of us here. At this moment you have the word of counsel and you seem unable to speak. So, counselor, please continue your... [[Murmurs.]] Mr. Losada, I call you once in order because I think you didn't behave properly, I don't want to call you back. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Counselor, you have the floor, please continue.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u143	Looking at all the words of this last intervention that I had as advisor, there was, of course, no insult or much less; another thing is that some people find it hard to digest everything they're going to have to do in the future in order to be able to govern different institutions. The fact is, in some ways, that the figures now accompany us, and that in our community there are 25,000 unemployed less, in the last year, who are accompanied by 20,000 more affiliates. That is, in the last year, there are 25,000 unemployed less than they are accompanied by 20,000 more affiliates, which indicates a coherence in the data that, of course, coincides with the panorama that has been attempted since the opposition in our community. That doesn't mean that from this government, of course, we're not working every day to improve the situation of the 244,000 unemployed in our community, which we're actually developing with our policies, where, by the way, we're running about 100 percent of the entire budget. In fact – as I said – all these policies are changing the economic situation and they are also changing the employment situation; so I am convinced that we will start 2016 with the number of employees that were in early 2007, that is, before the crisis. And for that we will continue to work on that plan called PAPE, which is actually published and is already developing from our community. Obviously, in this we highlight different measures that we believe go to the priority groups of our community, such as young people, such as the long-term unemployed, where the priorities are the older 45 years, and for that reason they exist, and how they are the beneficiaries of social integration income. There are 88 measures since this government today – important day, before or after elections – we want to introduce; 88 measures to fight unemployment; 88 measures to help create jobs in six axes. Of course, we have to highlight our firm commitment to improving the conditions of preparation and qualification for the Greeks and the Greeks, since about 70% of the unemployed in our community have a low qualification, so we invest 70 million euros of the 160 that has the budget of the Labour Council specifically for that training, to give them the opportunity to improve their qualification. We are talking about 70 million euros because the Autonomous Community has done its homework, has fulfilled its objectives, and that is why since the Government of the State has increased funding for active employment policies by 14%, and, of course, it has also been recognised to this autonomous community as an example of good practice by being elected headquarters for a good practice seminar on the recognition of professional experience. To recognize the bet we've seen since 2009 for this training and for this training to be of quality is something that the central government is doing now with this community. As I said, it was 5,000 people who had the opportunity to now accompany a certificate of professionality approved throughout the State that believes in their training. And we also need to highlight the news in this plan that distinguishes it from the previous plan, from the previous PAPE, as is the order of aid for students, of 4 million euros, to help them in transport, maintenance, housing and conciliation, or as are, of course, also the groups of special interest, such as women victims of gender violence and even disability. And also specific training in ICT, in languages, to obtain certificates of professionalism from these two groups, which are the ones that we prioritize, and which are the young people and the long-term unemployed, including those who are also older than 45 years of age. Of course, the order of aid, the income of social integration, which, as we said, for the first time this government, and not another, is concerned about giving them a job opportunity and an improvement in employability to people who receive a social integration income, because we believe that it is the best social policy that exists. That's why we double our efforts to help 1,000 people benefit from social integration income, which will be a contract through the municipalities, with an investment of 10 million euros, where, by the way, all the municipalities that have requested it this year 2015 will have an answer and the opportunity to hire these people. Of course, we were the first to take a follow-up to the Central Government in support of the improvement and employability of long-term unemployed persons and also in support of the improvement of employability of under 25 years of age. So we will continue to work day by day throughout the Government of the Union of Galicia until we have changed the situation in which 244,000 people are currently unemployed in our community. Nothing more and thank you very much. [[Applause]] Agenda Change
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u144	Thank you, Counselor. Before I suspend the session, I want to inform your lords of two changes in the agenda. In the first case, the Joint Parliamentary Group's appeal, document number 37363, although already known by the interpelent, the Government's request will be substantiation at the last hour of today's afternoon, and the PNL order numbers 4.5 and 4.6 of the AGE and BNG Parliamentary Group respectively will be consolidated. We suspended the session until 4:30 p.m. this afternoon. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u145	Continues the session with item 3 on the agenda, corresponding to the motions. G.P. motion. of the Alternative Galaga de Left, at the initiative of D. Ramón Vázquez Díaz, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in relation to the application in Galicia of the Organic Law for the improvement of educational quality
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u146	This motion has been tabled amendments by the Socialist Parliamentary Group and the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u147	Mr Vázquez has the floor for the defence of the motion.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u148	Good afternoon, everyone. Today we live one day that in a way is the foreclosure of a day that can be considered harmful for education in our educational system. If no one prevents it, tomorrow it will try to impose more than 22,000 pupils aged 7 and 8 in Galicia on the application of the revalid calls, those already known as LOMCE revalids. Revalids that are trying to impose in an absolutely hasty manner and even irregularly, bordering on the failure to comply with the prevailing legality. The cited reviews do not appear in any of the operating and organizing documents of the centres; they do not appear in the curriculum projects of the stage; they do not appear in the general curriculums of the classrooms and do not even appear in the general evaluation plans that have to be carried out and prepared in the centres themselves. They don't record, it can't be what they consist, because the primary decrees were published in the CEO on 9 September, just one day before he started school. It is therefore a more evident demonstration of the precipitation with which the Government of Greece is trying to put in place a law which is rejected by the entire educational community. But we're not only in the face of a precipitated test, full of opacity, but also in the face of a proof that it's clearly anti-pedagogic, a test that is standardizing, classifying and fundamentally discriminatory to all the student in Greek. It's anti-pedagogic because it doesn't incorporate any kind of improvement on current evaluation processes, and always subject to advanced criteria. Currently, with the legislative framework in force in Galicia, every 3rd primary school student is subject to an initial evaluation within the first 15 days of the course to determine the starting point of this student in dealing with the teaching and learning processes. At this moment, with this normative framework, primary 3 students are subject to an ongoing evaluation, throughout the school course, which involves daily school records by the teacher and the development, the start-up, of interviews, whenever necessary, with the parents and mothers of the children. At this time, a 3rd grade child of primary education undergoes at least 3 evaluation sessions throughout the course, with his corresponding evaluation reports sent to the families, which include both quantitative and qualitative observations of his progress in teaching and learning processes. In addition, those who are known as notebooks are forwarded to all families. At this point, a 7- or 8-year-old is given a final cycle report, which is also referred to as families, which contains a series of information, let's say deep about their ability to move forward in teaching and learning processes. Therefore, families are receiving complete information, complete information from both the process and the outcome of the teaching and learning processes. Article 2 of the order governing primary evaluation states that evaluation, in our educational system, has to be continuous, has to be global, has to be formative and has to be integrative. That's what our normative framework says, and that's all the opposite of what the LOMCE revals suppose. Therefore, evaluation has that formative character, it has that integrative character, because it aims primarily at three questions: retraining the teaching and learning processes at the time when there is some kind of difficulty in the student; establishing compensating measures, precisely to address any kind of difficulty there may be; and, of course, a third, most important purpose, giving the appropriate information, transferring that information to the families of the children and the children evaluated. Therefore, the model that modern pedagogy contemplates for evaluation is an evaluation focused both on processes and results, and therefore not exclusively finalist. And then everything was evaluated. In the evaluation of minimally modern education systems, not only does the student evaluate, the teacher evaluates the school, ultimately evaluates the adjustment, the relevant adjustment of the education system to the needs of the student. We are therefore not in a model of evaluation focused solely on the achievement of these so-called competences by the student. The revalids, therefore, do not improve the existing evaluation system, they do not incorporate any improvements; but they do not intend to do so either, the revalids are not conceived to improve our evaluation model. What they want, their clearly defined function, is to classify and carry out rankings of centers to enhance precisely the choice of centres with better results and, therefore, the privatization of the education system. Say it to LOMCE itself. Article 89 is very clear in this regard and literally says, "Tests will be standardized and designed in such a way that they can establish fair valuations and comparisons. Equitable valuations and comparisons. Article 90 clearly states: The results of the evaluations will be placed in community knowledge through common indicators – we speak of standardization, we do not do it free of charge for all Spanish teaching centres. So this is the key. The revalids are designed, precisely, to measure, to compare, to classify. He recognizes the LOMCE itself. So our disagreement with the revalids is not based only on epistemological and scientific reasons; our disagreement with the revalids is not based only on ideological reasons, but also on our disagreement emanating from the deeply discriminatory and unfair nature of these tests. Tests cannot be established with decontextualized items of the reality object of study, in this case of the socio-educational reality of Galicia. A poor Trives educational center cannot be compared to an educational center in Vallecas. You can't compare the school in a neighborhood of Vigo to a concerted school in downtown Ourense. You cannot compare such different realities by applying identical items. It's a complete aspiration... which is an aberration in educational practice, in pedagogical practice. So what is going to be offered with the results of these revamps is a reality, a distorted image, to nothing true to what the performance of students is. An absolutely distorted educational reality of our education system. And we don't just say it ourselves, the ANPA confederations are reporting these days, and they've already done it before, that truly discriminatory character of the revals. The confederations themselves of parent and mother associations demand that these tests be paralyzed, and they have even sent information to parents and mothers so that children are not taken to school during these tests. So there are many families that have decided not to subject to this unnecessary stress; all evaluation, all measurement incorporates a stress component for the subject evaluated or examined. And, therefore, they themselves defend the right of their children not to be subjected to a test that will not be incorporated, that will not have an academic character, as even the Councillory, the Council of Galicia, recognizes. So the families won't accept the blackmail they're subjected to by the German Government. The Education Council, the Galician board, called the chapter to the directors of the centres, at a provincial meeting, where the directors of the centres were instructed not to transfer information to the families about the voluntary nature of the tests and simply...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u149	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u150	...to transfer official information. But there's something even more serious. The Education Council sent a letter to families full of falsehoods and lies, providing entirely distorted information about what evidence is, even in serious lies. There are municipalities, like the council of Ourense, that have already enabled mechanisms so that those families who decide not to send their children to school have spaces and places to be able to reconcile family and work life. But it's not necessary not to send children to school. Any family who comes up with a letter with their son in which he says he does not want his son to submit to this absolutely discriminatory and anti-pedagogic test has the right not to be subjected to that test, since he does not appear in any official document. So what constitutes the motion we are presenting today is very clear: they paralyze the revals planned for tomorrow and immediately call a bilateral commission with the Government to study ways of normative application of LOMCE that do not harm the identity of the Greek people, the Greek culture, the sociodemographic reality of Galicia and, of course, that do not waste the pedagogical advances achieved for decades and that this law, of course, if no one prevents it, will take it forward. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u151	Thank you, Mr. Vázquez. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. Mr. Pombo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u152	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. The BNG Parliamentary Group has always advocated delaying the application of LOMCE in Galicia, both in primary and secondary, to avoid the negative consequences it is introducing in the Greek education system. The BNG has fought against LOMCE: it has voted against it, even in this Parliament, called for a remedy of anti-constitutionality through the invasion of competences in educational matters which are within the competence of the Board, even in those as evidence of the assessments, which, I say, invades and violates its own competences. I'm saying BNG will support this motion because we understand that we should paralyze the individualised ESO 3 test, as well as we also understand that we should also paralyze the rest of the evaluation tests. The BNG considers that the so-called individualised assessment test is a preamble to the revivals of LOMCE, of that law which was born dead, of that harmful law for the public education in Galicia, which privatizes and commercializes education, which destroys equal opportunities, which eliminates the democratic management of the centres, which strengthens the confessionality, promotes the segregation of the student and reintegrates the famous revals of frankism. The Parliamentary Group of the BNG considers that the German Government should defend its powers to develop its own educational model by, of course, delaying the application of LOMCE; a law – as I have already said – lethal to the public education of the Greek and which is being rejected by the vast majority of the educational community of Galicia. The BNG, of course, regrets that the German Government is calming in the face of the state government's educational recentralisation, which designs these tests of primary, secondary and bacharelate evaluations and revalids centralized with the sole objective of expelling the most disadvantaged social sectors from the educational system. Today's BNG, once again, demonstrates that Galicia must and can aspire to decide on an issue as essential as education; that Galicia should regulate and organize the education system without interference. In addition, we believe that Galicia must also defend the demands of the Galician educational community, the practice of all teachers' unions, the practice of all the ANPAs, the vast majority of the teachers, the defense platforms for public education in Galicia and even the Galician School Council, which claim to delay the application of LOMCE, which claim not to implement the 3rd or final primary, secondary and Bachelor's degree tests. BNG, of course, will vote in favour of this motion because we believe it is necessary to paralyze this test. And we also tabled an amendment to postpone the application of LOMCE in our country, which we hope will be accepted. We consider this 3rd test to be totally unnecessary. It is a pedagogical aberration to subject 22,000 eight-year-olds to unnecessary pressure by a test that will evaluate them under uniformizing standards that forget the special circumstances of students, socio-economic circumstances, the ability and attitudes of students. In addition, these tests despise the continuous evaluation and the opinion of the teaching team, who knows first-hand deficiencies, potentialities, skills and skills of the student, and know these teams the support they need and the resources. By the way, support and resources always denied by the Education Council. It also underestimates the application of this test, and is suspicious of the teacher's work, which much of it will be obliged to guide his teaching work to overcome a test to get a good note in these evaluation tests, leaving other fundamental educational and formative aspects. They intend to introduce with this test a competitive educational system, in which the centres are classified according to categories. We walk, ladies and gentlemen, towards a competitive classy and segregation system, which aims to once again exclude the most disadvantaged sectors from progressing in the education system. Apart from – and I'm going to finish – there's a waste of public money. The Council, of course, will waste a public money despite the multiple shortages of the centres. He's going to waste public money to evaluate the 3rd grade student on a LOMCE system he hasn't seen in either 1st or 2nd. For all this, we shall vote in favour of the motion. I hope you accept the BNG amendment to postpone the LOMCE application in Galicia. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u153	Thank you, Mr. Pombo. Socialist Parliamentary Group. Mr. Docasar.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u154	Good afternoon, everyone. Welcome too, Counselor. Mr Vázquez, about 20 days ago we were debating in this Parliament an explanation of yours on this very matter and our view of the matter was coincidentally at that time, so today it will be. You all know that about a year and a half ago we have LOMCE in force. This law was made clearly behind the educational community, since it did not count at any time with the support of the teacher, ANPA, students, nor with the most important unions in the teaching world. That law which was only supported in the courts by the People's Party, by Rosa Díez and by Álvarez Cascos, and which included the unanimous rejection of the remaining parliamentary groups represented both in Congress and Senate. The same law which is appealed to the Constitutional Court by political parties, trade unions and several autonomous communities. And I don't want to stop saying it again, though I know that you don't like the representatives of the People's Party, the Counsellor and Mr. Farínas, that that law will last exactly what Mr. Rajoy's government in Moncloa has to do; that is, until November. Interestingly, months ago we also learned that the Government of Spain and the Government of Basquedi signed a bilateral agreement, in the middle of the summer of 2014, so that certain relevant issues contained in the LOMCE were not applicable in the Basque Country, or that they were different from the rest of autonomous communities. The Socialist Group considers that the issues agreed with Euskadi were not just minor, as they affected very relevant issues and were published in official bulletins, both of the state and of the basic autonomous community itself. That is why we are presenting initiatives in that direction in the German Parliament on your day. I understood then, and today, too, the Socialist Group understands that the Government of Basque did nothing but defend the interests of its citizens, but we also understood – with much more difficulty, yes – that the Government of Galicia had not done anything similar to what the Basque Government had done. What are we really talking about, gentlemen? Well, we're talking about nothing but two relevant issues that the Basque Government has managed to shield by negotiating with Rajoy and Wert, they'll know in return that, without the German Government having the slightest interest in doing something similar here in Galicia. What did the Basques shield in that negotiation with the Government of Spain, gentlemen? For they shielded the relevant role of school councils, that relevant role that LOMCE has taken in order to remove a pen in its time to convert them into mere florists at the service of highly controlled and conditioned directions. And they also shielded the role of the Basque Country in the educational system. As you see, two matters certainly important, two subjects of enormous silence, which the Basque Government solved with the necessary complicity at that time of the Spanish Government and also with the complicit silence of the Greek Government. Therefore, we fully understand, Mr Vázquez, the reasons for your initiative, as we also understand perfectly the discomfort of the education community in Greece with the start of the revals sent to LOMCE, which will begin – as you all know – on tomorrow and will follow next Thursday. Revals will be made at different times from the educational stage. We start with 3rd primary, then we'll be 6th primary, ahead 4th of the ESO and 2nd of the bachelor's degree, with the only purpose of turning the education system into a real career of obstacles from very early ages. In this absurd race of obstacles, the Government of Galicia has already launched this type of primary 3 test, in which it is expected that more than 22,000 children and children aged 8 and 9 will participate tomorrow, who will be subjected to a non-educational test and whose results will only be used to promote competition between centres, establish rankings and piss off thousands and thousands of Greek families. A totally absurd revalid – I insist – and useless – that these 8- and 9-year-olds will have to pass. I, Counselor, took me a few days ago, wanted to do this exercise of going to school from a small rural center of Lemos and spend a morning with eight-year-olds, 3rd graders, and with their teachers, who were in class. I asked, logically, for permission to go there and really know how those children felt, and I can tell them they were worried. They were worried, kids were tense about that situation. There were even children who were crying, others were... yes, yes, I can tell you later. It's funny, it's amazing. I mean, they were worried... No, Mr. Vázquez, Mr. Conceleiro de Ourense, I suppose it makes you very funny, but I mean that's true. You never liked me for school, but I like to go and it's okay. I listened to them because it seemed to me like a subject even nice to hear them, and they're worried. Yes, yes, they're worried, they're their teachers and their parents as well. If it's funny to you, I'm sorry to hear it. In any case, Mr Vázquez, what we have just explained is more than enough to explain the position of the Socialist Group today, so we're going to maintain the same position that we held a few days ago. The Socialist Group will support this motion. We made a small amendment to update your initiative, because tomorrow a part of Galician 3rd grade girls will do this test. I understand we've come to update what you're asking for in your resolution. Thank you very much and nothing more.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u155	Thank you, Mr. Docasar. Joint Parliamentary Group. Mrs. Churches.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u156	Good afternoon, ladies. Thank you, President. This honourable Member, a professional teacher for forty years, and the great honour, and now honourable Member, will support this motion. Wert's LOMCE is defined by itself as the necessary change to leave the alarming dropout figures, 24.9%, and the mediocre results in international comparisons. But the truth is that LOMCE is a rule directed at building a low cost school that will leave many students of the most disadvantaged social classes on the outboard. This is one of the concerns of the autonomous communities, including those governed by the People's Party – good governance until yesterday – and the school councils; the state and the autonomics. Precisely, the Galicia School Council has just passed the amendment to the whole, submitted by the IGC and other members of the previous council, requesting the withdrawal of the curriculum of the ESO and the Bachelorate in Galicia. The decree sets an education system management based on segregation, with itineraries from the 3rd ESO. It seeks to separate the most disadvantaged sectors socially from the right to education, and with this aim establishes revals and itineraries. It despises and offends – we are used – by not valuing the acquisition of other skills, skills and skills. For example, music-artistic education, which is so important in the Finnish education system, which is one that gets better results in the Pisa reports. And also the teaching of our natural history and environment, essential, please!, for comprehensive and effective learning, disappears. The learning studies that are intended to evaluate – this also falls into the absurd – correspond to the first three primary courses, and the student who will suffer the test only graduated in LOMCE. The decree despises the continuous evaluation, disallowing and demeaning the work of the teacher, who becomes a revalid preparer instead of being a teacher. Under the integrated language teaching, it hides linguistic assimilation, denying language conflict and discrimination and language substitution. It does not collect as free configuration materials the literature of the twentieth century and of the present, the geography and history of Galicia, Hispanic literature, contemporary universal literature – leave the letters there. It removes the Portuguese language as a second foreign language, does not express or guarantees that the student can choose any of the specific materials and free-of-configuration, and his sharing will depend on the student's number. It does not lay down specific measures for attention to diversity. We all know what scares the right of everything that turns away from the model of single thought, but there's a lot of plurality. It does not contemplate the essential disorders in matters such as languages, and establishes the Frankish revalids – which have not taken place since franchiseism, we return to frankism – as a prerequisite for obtaining the title of ESO and LAC. There will come a tide of civil disobedience. I don't think children and girls are worried, I think they're excited to disobey because this test isn't mandatory, and they're going to have a palm of noses. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u157	Thank you, Mrs Iglesias. People's Parliamentary Group. Mr. Flours.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u158	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm going to allow myself to begin by referring to the definition of the Royal Galega Academy dictionary to try to fix a word that is being used here with certain results. Reválid: examination to revalidate certain studies and obtain a degree or academic degree. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall begin my speech by affirming loudly that we are not talking about any revalids. We're talking about an individualized assessment test, not a revalide test. You can come here to define the revalide and proof how you want it, but this doesn't evaluate specific subjects, it's not a final stage test, it's not going to appear in the student's academic record, it's not going to be in any place but in the report that's left in the center and that they're sent to families, so that they can also participate in the design of strategies for learning improvements that this diagnosis evaluation will mark in each of the academic centers, which will also have the freedom and option to design these contract programs, or support measures, or reinforcement measures that they consider appropriate in view of the results of each of these tests. Therefore, individualizing proof of evaluation, ladies and gentlemen, not revalid. And we're saying this because it's going to evaluate concretely two basic competencies: linguistic competition, from the point of view of oral and written expression and understanding, and mathematics, from the point of view of solving mathematical problems or exercises and calculation. An individualised evaluation test that will prove to be guiding and informing not only the students, but also the center, but also the kind of methodology that is being applied, whether it gives the results or not; those that are in the programming or not, ladies and gentlemen. That's looking for an efficiency of the education system that you weren't able to provide, that had absurd results – that's absurd. And I say it's absurd because, apart from being bad, no action has been taken to improve the results that in external reports appear as bad; it's not an opinion, it's a given. And we're talking about proof of what we've come to say here, "privateizer," when it's going to be carried out by the teachers, the teachers, the Welsh education system. From no other source will this test come. We are talking about an individualised test of evaluation that will be able to detect those non-advances – so to speak – in the educational process and to take the appropriate measures in each case. This test is not done only in Galicia, the Nordic countries quoted here today, like Germany or France, have a test exactly the same as this one. In Spain itself, with socialist governments, which were the only ones who passed educational laws in Galicia and Spain – never a People's Party approved a law of application in Spain, only socialists – there was at that time no call to insubmission or disorder or non-compliance as it is now, and also included the LOE with an evaluation of diagnosis, in primary 4th, exactly like today's, which anticipates a course to anticipate the possible effects that can occur in our educational system. Ladies and gentlemen, it wasn't the PP or the popular governments who invented this evidence, it was others. Of course, he was progressive then, he was objective and useful, and now he's the opposite. But I didn't listen to anyone, not even in Andalusia, where this law also applies and another one that we'll talk about tomorrow a little more carefully, when the proposed inquiry into the Galician Nationalist Block by this very subject. There are no riots, there are no demonstrations, there are no calls irresponsible to the parents of the students not to attend a legal obligation...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u159	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u160	...and freedom proceeds by fulfilling the laws, not calling insubmission. What guarantees the freedom of education systems is precisely the existence of laws and their compliance, not their failure to comply. And we talked about the second point – ending my intervention – establishing a bilateral commission. Of course, to set up a bilateral commission to come to certain interpretations of agreements with the Basque Country because they left the meeting, they left the negotiating tables, they left all those places where decisions were made, as Galicia did, to contribute to the education system, to contribute to the processing of LOMCE, their approaches, which others did not do, escaped from the back door without proposing anything, and Galicia, responsibly, made its arrivals, among them, to obtain an extraordinary contribution of economic resources for attention to geographical dispersion, attention to diversity, to the THD, ladies. That's what we have to do, and not leave the negotiating tables meetings. And that's what the People's Party did. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u161	Thank you, Mr. Fariñas. Motion author group. Mr. Vázquez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u162	Mr. Farinas is uncomfortable with the word revalid. I suppose he has some childhood trauma, because when he was studying, it was common for these tests to be carried out. Yes, a test more than sometimes the evaluation does not show the reality of the subject evaluated. [[Murmurs.]] I meant that this trauma of childhood doesn't prevent it from being intended to impose now on new generations of boys and girls. [[Laughter]] Look, no one can deny that these tests will evaluate what is already evaluated every day by the professor. So they're reassessing. It's a matter of easy understanding: if they reassess, they revalidate what teachers and teachers find every day in the evaluation they carry out with students and students who work at all centres in Galicia. You're scared, you're nervous, and that's why they send this pamphlet. You sent this pamphlet to the families, called "Information of Family Interest," where they say, "In front of the confusion generated." Well, therefore, they recognize that there is confusion. In the second paragraph they say: "First of all, we want to convey a message of tranquility." Therefore, they recognize that there is restlessness and indignation. That says the letter you send to the families. And then, in addition to being a pamphlet exercise, it's really a bunch of lies, because they say it's equally fake -- this is a more political pamphlet than an educational administration information -- and it says, "It's equally false that the results are going to be used to make student classifications or to establish center rankings." But if Article 89 of LOMCE says exactly: "Tests will be standardized and designed in such a way that they can establish fair valuations and comparisons." What part of that article do you not understand, Mr. Farinas? Because it's very clear, at least there's no sort of repair in LOMCE. Or are you not going to apply LOMCE and make – let's say – a sui generis revalid? Don't try to confuse citizenship. Napoleon said that the guillotines could get everything, whatever one wanted, except to sit on top of them. And you want families to feel on top of the guillotines they put in front of them and the ones they threaten. It's not true that families are not going to have information about the learning process of their children and their daughters, because they have continued, daily, global, integrated. That's the work of the professor you're absolutely disillusioning with these revals that are absolutely useless. And, of course, Mr. Farinas, when I talk about privatization, I don't say it because private companies are going to be going through -- I don't know if you might have more information about it -- I say it because, obviously, when you're doing centers rankings, when a center goes out bad because you have more difficulty students, because you have students from a more difficult socio-economic stratum, or because you're located in an area where there's a higher immigrant student, and so the results are going to be that this center has worse results in language skills, as you call them, many of the other families are going to have what you call other ways of schooling. Yes. And they probably pick a center that has better results, probably located in the center of a city, which they'll have to put home some relatives' homes, as they do in many cases, looking for an option of education according to what you sell, which is that private education has more quality. But families know that's not true, so they defend public education and so tomorrow they won't introduce their children to these damn revalids. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u163	Thank you, Mr. Vázquez. About the amendments, which I didn't understand?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u164	I'm sorry, my passion has clouded me. Yes, we are going to take on the amendment of the Galego Nationalist Block because we understand that its spirit, precisely, is trying to stop the application of LOMCE. We are not going to assume that of the Socialist Group because we still hope that tomorrow's revals will not be applied. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u165	Thank you, Mr. Vázquez. G.P. motion. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr. Abel Fermín Losada Álvarez, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in relation to the results of the wind competition promoted in 2010 in relation to the construction of wind farms and industrial investments committed
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u166	No amendments were tabled to this motion. For the defense of it, Mr. Losada has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u167	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am obliged, on the move, to turn this motion into an interpellation to the spokesperson of the People's Group, because because they have not tabled amendments to other parliamentary groups, this debate will be closed by the spokesperson of the People's Group. I hope that at the next plenary session I will be given the opportunity to present a removal by answering the contributions – I am sure interesting and illustrative – that the voices of the People's Party are used to providing us with the industrial development of the wind plan. The truth is, I'm also sorry that the tight schedule of Counsellor Conde – I don't know if beyond the Atlantic or Galicia – prevents you from being here at the moment. Perhaps he's in Vigo, accompanying the candidate of the People's Party to the mayor's office, as he did in campaign on a systematic and repeated basis. It's true that it was like a kind of pilgrimage with little success, too, you have to say. The truth is that the interpellation that this group presented in the previous plenary session of this Parliament – as is customary every time we talk about these issues – has been literally obvious, literally outdated, ignored, and we have been told again about paper produced by consultants who talk about that industrial future of renewable energies in the country of never, which is also good, but of course does not create wealth or employment in this autonomous community. I, to the extent that the counselor has not responded to what I asked, will do the exercise of self-response, an exercise almost psychoanalytic, but at least lets us know exactly what we are talking about. The first question I was asking was whether the Galician Union regularly evaluated the results of the 2010 wind competition. Not in public. I don't know if in intimacy, like the Catalan Aznar, but of course, in public, that all the Greeks we know, there's not the slightest assessment of the industrial and energy development of the 2010 wind competition. What are the results of that assessment – unknown – in case they exist? Third, have new wind farms been built in this contest? I have to admit that this was a rhetorical question, because this is indeed objective. No, no. It was very easy for her to say no. I could have said yes, because there are many cases that are systematically lacking in truth, but not in this case. What construction phase are they in? In none, in the three known dimensions of Euclidian space. Probably, in a fourth dimension, significant advances are being made to those who, of course, this vocabulary does not reach. What is the planned opening calendar? Well, as long as they're not building, I don't think any of them, either. Have industrial investments been made linked to the concession of these wind farms? No, no, no, no. Unless we really consider something more in the field of industrial archaeology than in the field of industrial activity itself, the reconstruction of the people of the ancient Fenosa in the support of the Pears. It is very good that we now use the English Academy of Education, but certainly, in an industrial productive sense, of gross added value generation linked to this issue, that this parliamentary group knows, no. And by the way, the People's Party and the political leaders of Mr Feijóo's government are unable to provide us with objective and concrete data on these investments. What stage of realization are they in? In none; except, again, that unknown fourth dimension. And finally, what is the schedule for opening them? We continue to move – I insist – in politics-fiction. To this unanswered interpellation, the fact is that the Socialist Group is presenting a motion that I think it collects what is the approach we have done in relation to the energy model. I hope you will save the historical memory of Zapatero's governments, recognizing the difficulties in the structuring of the markets which I have never denied in this Parliament, therefore I am already making progress. I give the People's Party spokesman free time to talk to us about something else, but also recognizing the dates. Recognizing that this tariff deficit, which was actually becoming a major financial problem, has a specific source in chronological terms. And that, of course, the concrete origin is the liberalizing process that starts in the first government of Aznar, between 1996 and 2000. The motion, two points, and the first fundamental. And I say it's essential not to be told that it's a toast to the sun. Financial, technical and social sustainability. We are aware that there is a need for financial sustainability of the system, of course!, but what can't happen is that the financial sustainability of the pivot system exclusively in revenue from electrical tariffs that both domestic consumers and industries are absolutely discriminatory. For domestic consumers, taking into account the social and labour situation of the country, and for industrial consumers, without any doubt, when competing internationally. Therefore, this triple dimension: financial, technical, social and environmental is absolutely fundamental. Unfortunately, the People's Party did not have the right to make an energy reform in this sense. The fundamental question is support for renewable energies, and I'm going to talk about above all about the elements that the People's Party and the Government of Beijóo could make from the German Government and they don't. First, claiming wind as a fundamental energy capital of this autonomous community. Unfortunately, it's all right to send letters to Minister Soria, but I think it's essential to propose a much more powerful country strategy in political terms. I don't know if Mr. Feijó's trips to Madrid systematically end up there, but it would be very nice if, after the Ritz Hotel, he had passed through the Ministry of Industry to explain to Mr. Soria that a good deal of the competitive advantages of Galician economic fabric is precisely the production of electricity in situ, something that in all the countries of Europe takes advantage of. The second question is to guarantee a remuneration that fits the real costs of production; something absolutely obvious, unless there is a defence of untrustworthy interests. It cannot be that the remuneration of the average production of nuclear energy or hydroelectric energy in fully amortised installations is EUR 40 and 42 per megawattium and that this looks like a reasonable amount to the voices of the People's Party. I repeat, EUR 40 or EUR 42 per megawatt – I insist – in absolutely amortised installations, which do not currently assume any kind of technological innovation important to the Spanish and Welsh economic structure, and in the case of wind pay we are talking about 52 euros per megawatt – i.e., just 15% more – and this is the fundamental element of growth and decontrol of the tariff deficit. I mean, you're missing the truth, you're lying, you're hiding other interests. And I want to repeat the data because I know that you will come here practically saying that the Socialist Party's Member or spokesman defends the interests of Renewable Action, as I have at some point heard in Commission 6a. I repeat: the remuneration for nuclear and hydraulics between 40 and 42 euros megawatt; cost of amortization of investment, zero; and indirect positive inputs in innovation, practically zero. At the windmill, 52 euros per megawatt, 15% more; but indeed, without still amortizing the installations. And, of course, they ask but the Vesta workers in the north of Lugo, or the workers in the district of Ferrol, in the metal-mechanical sector, deeply affected by this stopper of renewables. To me, of course, in case the People's Party votes against this initiative, I would like to know exactly what interests are defending themselves. Then, two fundamental questions. That in this energy planning, both in terms of generation and transport, which the Ministry of Industry does, the Galician Union has something to say for Galicia's own resources to have a place. Something that seems absolutely evident to me by any political leader in this country, but which, of course, until now, to Mr. Conde and Mr. Feijóo have never listened to them, I suppose they are busy walking the People's Party candidates through the cities of Greece. And finally, three issues that here are already strictly autonomous. A line of financial aid for sectors affected by the Spanish Government's electrical reform; a line of aid for the loss of employment specific to the metal-mechanical sector.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u168	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u169	And two questions – I am surprised again – in case they are voted against. The first, humbly, that this parliamentary group will be handed over to the information it requests and to which it has the right; and the second, that the resolutions of the debate on the state of autonomy adopted unanimously. I think I can be accused of many things, but not of too ambitious on this initiative. So I'm almost sure the People's Party, in this motion converted into an interpeleration, will vote in favour. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u170	Thank you, Mr. Losada. Joint Parliamentary Group. Mrs. Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u171	Thank you, President. Good afternoon to all and to all. I'm worried about the slow digestion of the People's Party. It's always hard for them to come. I don't know if it's the digestion of electoral data right now, but obviously they have the slow digestion, it's hard for them to join the plenary in the afternoon. Well, I'm gonna... yeah, but half, right? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u172	They don't dialogue. Let's get to the point.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u173	But exactly I told you and it's also half, what happens is that you're more. [[Laughter]] Well, I'm going to support this motion because the energy policy of the People's Party, both in Madrid and Galicia, considers energy a luxury, not a right. That's why we're in the situation we're in, with energy that can't be stopped by families and businesses. When the Government of the People's Party decided to cancel the Bipartisan's wind competition, the Greek sector occupied a position of privilege in the state, with reference to generated energy and power installed in the wind energy. And the Greek wind sector was the one that most contributed to the electricity system between 2006 and 2010, according to data from the electricity grid itself. Only Castile-A Mancha, with more installed power, could compete with Galicia at that time. As time passed, the Greek wind sector stagnated, while Castile-Leon and Andalusia experienced enormous growth. The Madrid Government's handkerchiefs, with the elimination of renewables in 2012, have only increased the paralysis of the wind sector. But despite the reform of Minister Soria to favour the scam of the tariff deficit – as we have already spoken – there is a huge difference between the evolution of the wind sector in Galicia and other communities. The difference marks precisely the paralysis of the wind competition of the Government of Núñez Feijóo; a wind contest, the 2010 wind competition, which, like the policies of the Government of the State, goes against the Greek entrepreneurship and is made up of the interests of the electric oligopolie, especially of Natural-Fenosa Gas. The result was that the action of the Union, together with that of Minister Soria, paralyzed the wind sector in Galicia. I hit the coup, since the Bipartite contest was cancelled to suspend premiums in renewables, they stopped their development. The Wind Business Association in its 2014 balance sheet entitled The investment in dry wind – 2014 has been the worst year in the history of the sector – points out, on the one hand, the income cut of 2014 – which exceeded EUR 1 billion – and the legal insecurity that has caused energy reform. According to data from the Wind Business Association, the installed power increased 28.48 megawatts in 2014, which means the lowest growth in twenty years. Only 14 of these megawatts correspond to the installation of an wind farm in Galicia, precisely from Natural Fenosa Gas. The Wind Business Association considers that energy reform was the cause of parón, the legal insecurity it generates, and the adoption of a new pay system that allows to modify economic conditions every six years without knowing the methodology to be used. According to the calculation of the wind business association, the average hours of operation of a park will be 52% higher than usual. And curiously, the only new park that works without incentives receives revenue from the market exclusively and from Natural Fenosa Gas. Natural Gas has 11 wind farms in Galicia with an installed power of 290 megawatts, and continues to advance in other processing. One of the problems experts pose is financial. Since the new payout from standards is reviewed every six years, this is still a risk that banks will take into account when financing new projects. Besides, electrical self-consumption is still an exception. From the sector, the big wind and power companies are accused of halting a process that is already common in Central Europe, with less power installed by apparatus than in Galicia, but more generators and more owners. Farms, industries, sports complexes, hotels, golf courses, are often equipped with a small electric generator and solar plates, without necessarily having channels to evacuate the network. In recent years, many companies in Galicia are applying for such authorizations, where it could be the start of an unstoppable process, favored by the premium crisis affecting large producers and aiming at the mentioned self-consumption. Only in self-consumption can there be a true energy democracy – and not a tariff change – that allows families to access energy and convert energy into a right and not a business. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u174	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. Mrs. Adam.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u175	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. We return to a classic theme in debates not in recent months, I believe that from the last few years of this legislation and also from the previous legislation; increasingly with more and more data, with more and more worrying data, which have already been presented here by both the rapporteur and in the repeated 6th committees, of energy, where we are debating this subject. What is really required in this motion is a total change in the way we understand the system or the electrical design we have, both in Galicia and the latest law in the electricity sector. From the BNG Parliamentary Group we are going to support this motion, and we also believe that it is a pity that there is no replication on the part of the proposed group, regardless of whether or not there are amendments, as was customary until the last amendments. The truth is, everything about the wind sector, renewable energy and self-consumption is becoming more and more of an "X-expendent", where there is no idea what's going to happen. In the last debate on the wind sector, what we were told by the People's Party is that all the indications that Galicia had made about, on the one hand, energy planning and also about the transport plan had already been included. We don't understand what they did because we weren't passed on to any of the groups. We don't know if it was a time of phone call, a moment... yes, we're not quite sure what that transmission of an administration like Galician to the Ministry was. The truth is, we ask you to send us that information, that we don't have it today. We don't know what the Ministry did to that verbal indication either by telephone, telegram, e-mail or whatever means it used. If it is incorporated, it is not incorporated or at what stage of the debate it is currently in. We can simply read by the press what the councilman himself says, which we also understand today he's facing some fleet or something; we don't have that very clear. So by accepting our initiative and understanding that it has a different nature because one important part is transmitted to the State and another is part of what the Government of Greece should do, we also believe that the Government of Greece, even beyond encouraging these facilities, as they have already done in different autonomous communities, with regard to self-consumption, could also take the step to legislate, because there is an important part, with regard to renewable energy and self-consumption, which could already be legislated. It is true that a repeated debate in this House on energy planning is also the remuneration of electricity companies at real production costs. The truth is that we would need a monographic debate, but it's very interesting... so I said it at the Commission, but I want to repeat it today, in 2014 the price of light has increased again, and the tariff deficit has also increased. So, all the argument that has been made so far by the People's Party, I understand that it will review it, that it will not continue to keep it. That renewables were not guilty of the tariff deficit, and that they did not review what the cost of production really costs families, businesses, and Galicia, which, being surplus in their production, has a price of light that we do not benefit at this time. That is why we are going to support this initiative. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u176	Thank you, Mrs. Adam. Parliamentary Group of the Left Galician Alternative. Mr. Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u177	Mr. Rajoy said the problem of the People's Party was communication. No, the problem is politics and facts. The solution is not to know how to communicate that if you have a treasurer, for twenty years, like Mr. Bárcenas, the problem is to have a treasurer like Mr. Bárcenas for twenty years, which was either consented or not understood; that's the real problem. The problem is not like spending money on advertising and reporting that the wind competition does not have a single megawatt installed. The solution... there's a problem with the sound... Oh, is it cold? Then come on, let's warm up the debate. The problem is, not a single megawatt has been installed. Of course, it's very difficult to communicate as something positive that doesn't even have a megawatt installed. That's why Mr. Arias will come here, I suppose, and he'll talk about everything but tell us how many megawatts have installed from Mr. Feijó's wind competition; he won't tell. Nor will he say how many megawatts were installed in Galicia in 2014 and compare it with the installation data of megawatts in the countries of the environment. He won't say. It's not a communication problem, the problem is the policies that you make. And here the debate is no longer to debate whether it's paralyzed or not the wind sector, that's a fact. The wind sector with its model, which is not ours, is paralyzed, that's an indisputable fact. The only debate there is whether you're paralyzed by political disability or because you work for certain economic interests that are being repeated here. That is the only debate there is. If you don't have the ability to generate in this sector a source of opportunities for employment and wealth, if you're incapable, you should recognize it. Or if it's because they're working precisely for certain interests. That is the only debate there is. Obviously, we have no evidence. That Mr. Acebes is working in Iberdrola, and a long and large number of directors, it's not proof enough to say that you work for these companies. It might be a reasonable hypothesis too. He said the People's Party model, the wind competition model, is not our model. Even if it worked, if the model worked, if they installed megawatts and there was investment, it's not our model, because it was the model that led us to have the impacts on our country, and instead the benefits go out, because the wind property, almost 80%, is from foreign companies. Mr. Arias said the other day that I was talking about ideal models. Ideal model developed in Germany, Denmark and most European countries. Democrat energy, not in the power of an oligopolie. That of the liberalisation of the electricity sector is a lie. There's no liberalisation in the electricity sector, it's a private oligopolie. We shift from public oligopolie, or public monopoly, to private; there is no liberalisation of the electricity sector. Where there is real liberalization, people, citizens, produce their own energy. In Denmark and Germany, it's not at all an ideal model. Then they'll come here and talk about the tariff deficit. Let Mr Arias explain it. Which explains that it's the tariff deficit. Tell me if it's not the difference between what we pay in invoices and the recognized costs. You don't cost them effective, as Mr. Losada said, you cost them recognized. And just as the costs are recognized by certain technologies that can only be owned by large companies because they have inherited from franchise nuclear power stations and large hydraulics, which have not even bought them, they have inherited them, because these technologies are over-remunerated. Come here and talk to me about it, if nuclear and large hydraulics are overpaid. And why in the electrical reform, which they say was fighting the tariff deficit, that's not what happens. You know why? Because the tariff deficit for these technologies, they didn't generate tariff deficits, they didn't generate. You can pay him 42 per megawatt, you can pay him 500 per megawatt, if they pay him a recognized cost of 500 per megawatt, that doesn't make a deficit, of course! And if we pay the renewables under the actual costs, it does cause deficits. But that's a trap to go against renewables. Don't be deceived, that's right. In this energy reform, you nuclear and big hydraulics haven't touched them. And they have a Greek wind sector that could be creating jobs, jobs in rural areas, a lot of jobs, and skilled jobs in rural areas, and they have been paralyzed by these particular interests. You accept the limitations imposed from Madrid, when Galicia is the country of the Iberian Peninsula with more wind resources; we should not accept any summit of megawatts. The only top is the capacity of the network, the landscape impact and the environmental impact, but we should never accept a summit of megawatts. And you are systematically preaching yourself to Madrid's policies, which are hurting us, and to the policies of large companies, which obviously do not want to generate that other model that is generated even with right-wing governments in Europe, because it would be a massive leak of consumers who are paying very expensive bills of light, and who could have other types of electricity, self-consumption, net balance, production even to sell, which would generate income to many people, and of course much less price in the light. So, I'd like that, after so many times we've been debating, the People's Party explains what the tariff deficit is...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u178	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u179	...which explains how many megawatts of Mr. Feijóo's wind contest were installed and how many were installed in 2014. I hope you answer those three specific questions.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u180	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. People's Parliamentary Group. Mr. Arias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u181	Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Well, we have to see a specific motion here today. I have to say my pronouncement on the motion, which is a very extensive motion, and then we have to specify at every point what I have to say. We came here with the background of having treated here a counselor's appearance, an interpellation, a lot of things. So, the first point says, Mr. Losada: The German Parliament urges the Galician Union to sue the Central Government... what do you mean by claiming? Ask, leave, request, and so on. You can understand that, then. The amendment of the legislation in force for the electricity sector allowing the following aspects in a context of financial, technical and social sustainability. Strengthen the role of renewable energy in electricity generation to achieve the objectives formulated by the European Union. This is a statement of intentions, or of goals, for which there is no drawback. Besides, it's getting done. This point we would, of course, approve. Second. Ensure that the remuneration to power companies produced adjusts to the actual cost of production of electricity companies produced. Logically, it's the legal requirement. How are we going to deny this evidence of equality? Third. Energy planning 2020 carried out by the Ministry of Industry. I mean, we've been ahead of us here a lot, and even the Socialist Group has parliamentarians in the whole of Spain who can do this kind of thing. Special conditions, both physical supply and demand between the intensive industry and electricity consumption of Galicia in order to allow its development. We couldn't deny it, because it's clearly a good energy intention. Fourth. The 2015-2020 Power Transport Plan contains the energy evacuation infrastructure needed to develop the renewable energy potential of our community. Logically. If you have energy and you don't really have a plan, logically we can't deny it. I mean, it's one thing, so to speak, to tell us what to do now. I mean, we declare that if we're doing it, but logically, by some kind of party or nothing, we're not going to deny it. Then he says, not the central government anymore, but the Galician Union, which sets the specific financial aid line through the corresponding agencies for the new facilities. Specific line. That is, the Igape has a budget, it has guidelines, it has to address everything within the budget restriction, and a specific line cannot be done. It's a line for the slate, which is very important. And another line I don't know what, and I don't know what else. There is a permanent Igape model, whose fundamental restriction is the financial availability, on the one hand, and the ability to do. Anyway, this is specific line. So to establish a specific employment support line for the economic sectors affected by the Spanish electric reform. Affected by the power reform of Spain – it's not very well specified – the new facilities as well as the mechanical industry. I mean, here's a mixture of what are windy aspects with aspects [...]. It seems to me that as a motion for a vote you must articulate this point. We can't vote for it. Just for consistency. Third. To comply with resolution 75, adopted unanimously in the 2012 debate of the state of autonomy, which called on the Galician Union to send Parliament a report on the degree of compliance of the industrialization programmes resulting from the call for wind generation parks, indicating investments launched and the deadlines for their execution, as well as full-time and equivalent workers and workers. It seems to us that we are against even the review of things [...] that do not have autonomy, that do not have a legal requirement, right now, three years later, because of the set of things that have been discovered from then on, we do not agree with the typification of "six-monthly" that we have, that we should do for everyone. 2.4 –I don't have time. To submit the information requested by the Socialist Group, through the legislative conduct of the Galician Parliament, on the development of the wind plan. I would say here: the Socialist Group and all groups. So our position is: the first part we would be in favour. The second part, by the set of nuances we said now, would not vote in favour of that point because it would give rise to a lot of reformulations that would even deviate, and, if we made a kind of amendment, they would be so shaded that they would distort the sense of the motion. So we could support point 1 and not point 2 if we vote on points logically. If we do not vote on points, because of the effect of exclusion of what cannot be voted on, we would not vote in favour. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u182	Thank you, Mr. Arias. G.P. motion. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da María Remedios Quintas Álvarez, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in the field of employment
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u183	This motion was presented with an amendment by the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block of Wales.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u184	For the defense of the motion, you have the floor to Mrs. Quintas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u185	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon. Well, let's talk about work again. In the past, the Socialist Group presented an inquiry so that the adviser could explain what had been done in the field of employment. It seems that the councillor wasn't enough and asked for his own appearance, and this morning we were talking about whether the German Government really had anything better than to present, after the municipal elections, work on the employment of the Labour Counsellor. Consequently, we present this motion, in which the Socialist Group, in view of the employment data and very negatively assessing the situation of young people and young people in Greece, calls for the return of emigrations, a return plan for emigrations specifically directed to youth. As we spoke in the morning and put it on the table - and we will put it back again - the lack of seriousness of the Government of Greece with regard to budgeting in employment policies decreases as unemployment increases. But the worst thing is, you don't even run the budget. We call for the implementation of the 100 per cent recorded annually on active employment and training policies for unemployed people. And this has to be so – we understand it from the Socialist Group – because it is found that Galicia is increasingly away from recovery, and this is absolutely certified by all reports, all data and all parameters. And you're drawing attention to this recovery precisely because of the deep destruction of employment and also because of wage depreciation, which places us at parameters almost thirty years ago. The X-ray that can be taken from the data, from all the data that is available with respect to that convergence of the autonomous community, is discouraging. I mean, unemployment, the suppression of social benefits and the lack of commitment from the Government of Galicia are shooting at inequality. This inequality causes a deep gap between those who lack resources and those who can be considered rich. Something that we are denouncing from all opposition groups, and, of course, with little effect on the policies adopted by the German Government. The policies of the People's Party have found that 10% of that most favoured population accumulates more than 40% of the wealth. So you can clearly say that the policies exercised by the People's Party are ineffective and absolutely mismanaged. It seems that the Government of Galicia does not want to deal directly with employment policies, it does not want to take the situation of the country seriously, and today a government member came tomorrow to assume employment policies while we are one of the autonomous communities where employment grows less. But, moreover, as a result of all these policies, of the emigration of young people due to lack of employment, as a result of this important wage gap, we have reached an absolutely old population in Galicia. In ten years it's possible for two people of working age to have a retirement pension. We're talking about 50%. It's a complicated demographic picture, it's such a complicated demographic picture that makes the active population end up below dependent population. Let's remember that the situation in Galicia is that the number of homes with all its members stopped is 95,000, with an increase of 112 per cent since 2009. Even with regard to the beginning of this legislation, there is an increase of sixteen percent, with 13,300 families in which there is no income. But the answer of the Government of Greece, the answer of the policies of the Government of Greece, is to reduce and cut. Cut into active employment policies. Propagandistic notes, as we said in the morning, advertising and propaganda. That, in view of the visa, it seems that the People's Party is becoming more and more vulnerable to advertising and propaganda. Totally, to see a lack of management and great ineffectiveness. We said and repeated, if it is not clear, that cuts in employment promotion programmes are absolutely progressive. Employment is added 421 million euros in 2009; 387 in 2010; by 2015, 193 million. I'm not going to repeat it, because it has become clear even though it seems that nobody cares about the People's Party, the lack of execution of the budget. In short, every 3 euros in existence, one of them has not been executed, in a truly alarming panorama, where young people go, the population ages, those who work in absolute precariousness, and employment policies – as we say – are increasingly reduced. So they apply policies without thinking about people, ineffective, mismanaged and acting directly on problems. Faced with the main problem that Galicia has – and this is put on the table all the surveys – which is unemployment, the Autonomous Government of Galicia adopts an indolent, negligent attitude, and I think it lacks respect for the Greeks and the Greeks. So I was saying, it's hard to understand that, with these tangible and published data today, the Labour Counsellor says that everything is going great. There is no country project or proactive job creation measures. In 2014, according to INE, the busy people went down to Galicia; the wage gap – as I said – increased in Galicia with regard to the state. On average, a Greek worker perceives about 3,000 euros less a year than a person who had worked outside Galicia. Unemployment and unemployment benefits in Galicia fell by about 200 million. And recruitments of less than 7 days increased by 50%. It is therefore a situation in which we understand that proactive policies need to be implemented, in which we must commit ourselves, and for that we are putting forward a proposal in which we hope that all the groups will agree if what they are really interested in is the problem that is currently affecting Galicia, or if at the moment what seems to be of interest to the Government of Galicia and the Members of the People's Party is to analyze what happened yesterday. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u186	Thank you, Mrs. Quintas. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u187	Good afternoon. The Galician Nationalist Block will support this initiative because, in fact, the most serious problem they have and that they continue to have is the problem of unemployment and immigration. We are faced with an increasingly deteriorating labour market as a result of the inaction, indeed, of governments and the result of profound labour reforms, which have as tremendous consequences not only a precarious and increasingly deteriorating job, but also people who are in unemployment have less and less coverage for less and less time. We believe – we have seen it this way on more occasions – that the situation of unemployment in Galicia must be tackled with the cruelty with which thousands of people, of Germans and Greeks live, who suffer it. The 244,000 registered unemployed people, who are obviously many more, because there are not even the people who have been retired, the immigrants who have returned to their countries, the people who are studying, the people who emigrate, the ones who give up directly, those who work a few hours or a few days a month, but who no longer count as unemployed, or those who have real slavery contracts and keep looking for work. Situation as a result of labour reforms that provide a shocking balance for Galicia in numbers of unemployed people, in numbers of people who are excluded or at risk of poverty, in numbers of homes with all their members in unemployment, and in youth unemployment data that are above 50 per cent. And there's more and less unemployed people charging some contribution benefits and there's less and less and less of them getting subsidies. It is tremendous that in this situation unemployment benefit spending has dropped by more than 18% in 2014. This demonstrates the low sensitivity of the People's Party's governments to the people who suffer from this dramatic situation. Of the total unemployed, only 49% receive some kind of benefit; i.e., in Galicia only about 122,000 people charge some kind of benefit, and of these, only 50,000 people do with contributions. That is why we support this initiative and tabled two amendments, in order to address two aspects which we believe complement those which contemplate the initiative. The first is the derogation from labour reforms in general and from Royal Decree Law 20/2012 in particular, because this decree, under the heading of measures to ensure budgetary stability and to promote competitiveness, introduces a whole series of tremendously damaging changes for people in unemployment. Reduces benefits by applying 50% of the regulatory base from the sixth month of unemployment; punishes workers and workers who have part-time contracts; reduces subsidies, especially those older, from 52 to 55 years old; excludes the active employment income from those who have not previously acceded to benefits or subsidies and weakens the benefits of Fogasa. I mean, a whole series of measures, in addition to many other injuries to public employees, for a whole number of sectors of work, which we believe is tremendously negative to the working class, especially to those in unemployment. And another amendment, in the sense that the minimum inter-professional wage is increased to at least 60% of the average wage. We tabled this amendment because the wage gap only increases in a brutal way. The sacrifices of the pay crisis suffer us above all those who have lower wages. The least-curved group came up as their salary dropped by 10% since 2007, while the best paid employees saw how their salary increased by 24%.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u188	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u189	That is why we tabled these two amendments, and we hope that they will be accepted by the group presenting the initiative, although, in any case, if they are not accepted, we will support the initiative as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u190	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Joint Parliamentary Group. Mrs. Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u191	To begin with, to announce support for this motion, since the lack of employment opportunities in Galicia obliges the Greeks and the Greeks to emigrate to other communities or states for a contract of employment. Among those who leave, 35% is younger than 29 years, and most of them have a university degree. Therefore, Galicia exports skilled labour. In the face of a situation of unemployment as we are living in, social protection policies play a decisive role in the realization of human rights to social security for all; reducing poverty and inequality; supporting inclusive growth, boosting human capital and productivity; favoring domestic demand and facilitating the structural transformation of the economy. The extension of social protection is essential for the recovery of the crisis, inclusive development and social justice. The role that social protection plays is key to women and men of working age, stabilizing their income in case of unemployment, work accidents, diseases, disabilities or even maternity, and ensuring that they have a basic level of income regardless of the circumstances of their lives. As part of the measures facilitating integration into the labour market are measures that do not allow low wages, either through law or through collective agreements, something that has been done since Galician Union, of course, not being done, but quite the opposite. The Galician Union is working to make wages lower and increase business profits. Transfers of public funds of a selective and specific nature, relating to labour market conditions, such as unemployment insurance, are particularly effective in preventing poverty among people aged 55 and under 65 who are literally expelled from the labour market. In the Spanish State, the social protection system is not effective in reducing poverty. Only 51 per cent of the population of the State that is below the poverty line with their own resources avoids this situation thanks to social benefits, compared to 70% of France and 66% of Denmark. Young people combine a high unemployment rate and a high labour tempority with a high level of lack of protection in employment, which has led to an increase in poverty and exclusion between young people. On the other hand, it points out that the trend in the poverty risk rate of the unemployed has increased in the State by two percentage points since 2007. The Spanish model of labour flexibility was particularly perverse in responding to the crisis. Social policies have shown a limited capacity to compensate for the social inequalities that the labour market generates. The State of State welfare is comparatively much below the rest of Europe in reducing poverty by social transfers, due to the significantly lower levels of benefits, their unequal distribution and a limited nature in the time of many of them. We always talk about numbers, but numbers hide harsh realities from many people and families who suffer the consequences of cuts and social disprotection. Stories like Maria José's. He worked as a cleaner for eight years, but she was suddenly fired through a bureaufax, for reasons beyond the scope of his work, and has been unemployed for four years. Mary Joseph said, "I sold a dozen eggs yesterday, but if I see them, we don't eat them. The kids at noon eat at school and on Friday they go to the father's house and eat there. It's less bad, because my dilemma is: or how, or I pay the mortgage. This month, in addition, I have to pay the municipal contribution. I'm told you have to be up to date to opt for a lawyer. So I'm going to borrow for the house, but I owe you three months. If the day 1 doesn't pay, the Popular has sent me the embargo notice again. One day these people cut me off. The father spends a pension of 187 euros, but 180 go to mortgage." Maria José has four children, the little ones have grown accustomed to inheriting their clothes. This year, the truth – said Mary Joseph in his despair – I thank God that the little ones repeat course, so I don't have to buy them books. One of the daughters has fibromyalgia and she can't buy the things she needs, so now she lives more with her father than with her just for survival. And Maria José says, "With seven euros available a month, giving breakfast and dinner to two mouths every day is hell." Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, this is the reality that lies behind unemployment, after the lack of social protection, in those people who have already completed unemployment benefit and...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u192	Finish up, Mrs. Martínez, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u193	...they don't find a future for them or their families. So I hope that, for the first time since I am in this House, you take the issue of unemployment seriously. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u194	Thank you. Parliamentary Group of the Left Galician Alternative. Mr. Juan Manuel Fajardo has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u195	Good afternoon, everyone. Alternative Galga de Left will support the motion before this Parliament, but that is, unfortunately, because we know the position on the majority group of the House for now, since this morning it has demonstrated its objective in terms of employment for this year, and it is to continue with the same employment promotion policies that have led us to a situation of brutal unemployment in Galicia and an extremely precarious labour market situation, where slavery is the form of new employment in this country. Besides, a government that even doesn't know or hides the actual unemployment data of this country. We must recognize some issues that are fundamental to us. In this motion the first point has to do with the possibility of returning to Galicia the people who had to emigrate to find a job, and the data are gross, they are absolutely gross, and they are not data from the Alternative Left Galicia are data from the IGE itself. And since you returned to the Government until 2013, which is the data we have, it's been 139,000 people who left this country because they couldn't find a job. It was 139,000 people. Of course, far less than the supposed jobs you created. The saddest of that is that 97,000 have fled to other parts of the state because in Galicia this government gives them no way out of the future or ability to survive. Even there are 9,000 Welshmen who, in four years, left Galicia to Andalusia. So long as they hear Andalusia in this House, they've decided to look for jobs there. That is the reality of the People's Party and its employment policies, but we also support it because at the second point they talk about training policies. And they talk about training policies in a Parliament where this morning it has been shown that the advisor doesn't even recognize or know the data of his department; data that makes it clear that one out of three euros of previous budget formation has not been executed, and for us that is an absolutely fundamental issue. But above all, because the motion also talks about the protection of the unemployed. The cuts to the unemployment benefits of the People's Party are brutal. Ten percent from the sixth month, they stopped charging the workers. They had a cut for benefits of more than 45, and that subsidy that was given for more than 52, now you have to get to the 55 to collect it. That's one of the biggest cuts in absolute terms in this country, but of the most hidden, too. And so in one year, only in one year, in Galicia, they stopped spending 248 million euros on unemployment benefits, 248 million euros! That's looting. It's looting unemployment benefits. It's a brutal reality that every month there are 20.67 million euros less executed in unemployment benefits. So when Mrs Mato comes here this morning to say that the unemployed would leave 80 million euros for training courses, what she is not saying and that they are subsidising themselves with what they stop charging for being unemployed. I mean, it's a robbery, it's a robbery! We stole 248 million euros from the unemployed pocket and then we just spent 80 for their employability, what is it called? It's a shame! It is a shame that in this country people with the greatest difficulty, who are those who have no employment, what we give them, what we return to them, is a policy that cuts what is a right. But, of course, in this country where people like Esperanza Aguirre just kicked in their ass, this one said unemployment was like a scholarship. Please! It's shameful that a person who's committed to escaping the local police should say these kinds of questions. Of course, it is fundamental for us to regain dignity, but also to regain the dignity of the unemployed, and to recognize that unemployment benefits are a right, and that one cannot continue on a cutting path because cuts always go on the same side. I'd like cuts for the SICAV, for the Ibex 35 companies, for the big multinationals, for the landlords, for all those who don't have cuts. But they have those who are unemployed. For example, those who when they are 45 years old are unemployed and have no chance of working again, and in many cases, they are very lucky to charge 426 euros. I repeat the question in this Parliament: How many of us here would we be able to feed a family and survive with 426 euros? Certainly none. That's why we have to have empathy in politics, and empathy means providing those who need it most right now with the benefits they had before the cuts of the People's Party. So we can only support this proposal, and, of course, we hope that the People's Party will dismiss its unemployment advisor and take this proposal into consideration, which, although it will not solve the situation, would of course be on the way to resume the benefits that our unemployed people need. Nothing else and good afternoon.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u196	You have the word Mr. Miguel Tellado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u197	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, everyone. The Socialist spokesman said that in the People's Group we are concerned about the election results. I don't think it's more than you. Allow me a chascarrillo. Read a Europe Press teletype: The PSOE obtains three votes less than members in Beariz. That's the Socialist Party, Mrs. Thursdays. That's the Socialist Party of Galicia. [[Murmurs.]] Our priority is the fight against unemployment, that's our priority. It's a teletype, it's in Europe Press, yes. Our priority is the fight against unemployment, they like it or they don't like it. That's the reality. And that's what the work counselor, Mrs. Quintas, said, Mr. Zapatero, when he said that we were at Champions League and we lost workers to thousands, to thousands, to nearly 3 million unemployed.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u198	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u199	Our goal is to work to reactivate the economy and generate jobs, as much as bothering them. And Mr. Fajardo, if all those young men who say you have been to Andalusia, I assure you that everyone is unemployed if they have gone to Andalusia. They're all unemployed.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u200	Mr. Fajardo, shut up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u201	By the way, Mr. Fajardo, to keep protesting. Large companies lived better when the Socialist Party ruled in Spain. Then they did have great benefits, and not now with the People's Party. On the question that the Socialist Party brings to us, on its motion, it speaks first of the youth return plan. Look, the Galician Union has already launched measures specifically aimed at youth in order to improve their employability. Above the table is the Youth Employment Plan, which involves different councils: the Council, Economics and Industry, the Council of Culture, Education and Universitary ordination and the Council of Work and Welfare, which coordinates it. So we're already working that way. This plan is accompanied, in addition, by the Youth Guarantee Programme, which, as you know, has an appropriation of EUR 49 million. On his second point, on budget execution, you simply did what he did was to miss the truth, not to say directly that you lied. The level of execution of the Government of the Union in the matter of active policies of... look, after what they call us, if it seems bad to them that I say they lied, I'm really sorry. Indeed, he lied openly. The runlevel is practically total; in 2014 it was around 96%, as much as bothering you. With regard to the increase in the appropriations for employment programmes, this is also being done since Galician Union. In fact, in 2015 the funds that Galicia will receive are EUR 114 million, with an increase of 14%, as much as it prays to it. And we're also implementing a new juvenile guarantee system in our community, as I told you. I mean, we're already increasing the budgets of active employment policies, and the results are what you know: in the last year, 25,000 unemployed less in Galicia. On the third point of your initiative, the best way to protect unemployed people is to increase their opportunities to find a job, and that's what we've been doing. And it's already directly reflected in the indicators of unemployment. We've been looking elsewhere for 18 months - as much as you can see - of annual unemployment reductions. We've been up to 13 months of international membership in Social Security, as much as it bothers you. So that's the reality. In the last year of the Bipartite, of its government, of what you so boast, 45,000 memberships have been lost in Galicia. Between March 2008 and March 2009, in the last year of the People's Party's Government, between April 2014 and April 2015, memberships of Social Security rose by 20,000. So that's the data, as much as it bothers you. EPA data. I refer them to EPA data in the first quarter of 2015. Occupation increased; 4,500 more occupied in the first quarter of 2015. He's been unemployed in 21,200 people. He's lowered the unemployment rate; we're two points below the national average and we're twelve points below his beloved Andalusia. He lowered the number of homes with all his limbs unemployed, as much as bothering you. And he dropped the juvenile unemployment rate. And all this proves is that while the government works...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u202	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u203	...to generate jobs in Galicia, all you do is protest and deny reality, which was the legacy you left. And as much as bothers them, recovery is coming to Galicia and arriving to stay. I'm sorry to give you this news. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u204	Thank you very much, Mr. Tellado. Motion author group. You have the floor to Mrs. Quintas Álvarez. Quiet, please. You have the floor, Mrs. Quintas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u205	Thank you, Madam President. First, thank you for the support of the groups. In particular, the amendment tabled by the BNG, which is to add and we will accept it. Secondly, Mr Tellado, if you know both about employment and about Ourense, the truth is you don't know anything. When you want to talk about Ourense politics, we talk, but that's not the case. Look, Mr. Tallate, you can come here and keep twisting the figures, lying and saying that this is Alice in the Wonderland. No, that's not true. You know what they're lying to. You don't run the budget. You've reduced the budget. Young people go away, and they go away because they don't have a future here, and what's more serious, they don't have a perspective. The data is there. You can come, look, change the pamphlet this one of Andalusia, the ZP and the Bipartite, at least to talk to me. Yes, because I really think I've said many times – I don't know if you know – that the Socialist Party has lost the elections at a given time, lost them, and now they're ruling, and don't lie, and don't deceive, which is what they're doing. The unemployment data is real, all the parameters say Europe, and that's it. And you can come here and do and say what you want, because the least you have to have is consideration. You're a Member like me, and when you go there you talk like a counselor, see if they manage it. In the presence of Mrs. Labour Counsellor, I've already told the Counselor that he has no friends. To show up today, to talk about work after the election, he has no friends. And you show up giving lessons! And you are a Member who will have to defend the policies you defend. Look, honourable Member, the youth unemployment rate, between 16 and 29, has risen by 60% and you find it wonderful. Since 2009, there have been 80,000 destroyed youth jobs. The average year is 13,000 boys between 16 and 34 years of age who leave Galicia; 40 people, 40 dramas a day. And you're here to talk about. I don't know what. You come to falsify the data, you come, I don't know... sometimes, the same respect that when they get there they suspect they have, they should have to have the opposition, the House, the unemployed, the young people and the Greek people. And they don't. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u206	Thank you, Mrs. Quintas. Motions vote
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u207	We passed the motions. We voted for the G.P. motion. of the Alternative Gaga de Left, at the initiative of D. Ramón Vázquez Díaz, who said he did not accept the socialist amendment but did accept the amendment to replace the Nationalist Block Galego. Text vote on the G.P. Motion. by the Alternative Galaga de Left, at the initiative of D. Ramón Vázquez Díaz, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in relation to the application in Galicia of the Organic Law for the improvement of educational quality.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u208	We're going to repeat, if you don't mind, the vote, because it's a little weird this painting. Let's try and see if we can vote on this screen. If it seems to you, we shall vote, as I said, the motion of the Parliamentary Group of the Glaga Alternative of the Left with the amendment of the Nationalist Block of Galicia. Text vote on the G.P. Motion. by the Alternative Galaga de Left, at the initiative of D. Ramón Vázquez Díaz, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in relation to the application in Galicia of the Organic Law for the improvement of educational quality. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 27; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u209	We voted on the motion by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr Losada Álvarez, a motion to which no amendments have been tabled. G.P. Motion vote. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr. Abel Fermín Losada Álvarez, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in relation to the results of the wind competition promoted in 2010 in relation to the construction of wind farms and industrial investments committed. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 27; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u210	Finally, we voted on the motion by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mrs Quintas Álvarez, who said that he accepted the amendment of the Nationalist Block of Galicia as an amendment to addendum. We vote. Text vote on the G.P. Motion. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da María Remedios Quintas Álvarez, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in the field of employment. The voting was as follows: 27 votes in favour; 38 votes in favour. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u211	We continue the development of the agenda with point 4, which is non-legislative proposals. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. People of Galicia, at the initiative of Da Paula Prado del Río and seven other Members, on the adoption by the Greek Government of the measures necessary for the implementation of the guidelines provided for in the Plan for the Improvement of Public Procurement
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u212	This motion for a non-law amendment by the Socialist Parliamentary Group was tabled.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u213	To formulate the proposal you have the floor to Mrs. Prado del Río.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u214	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, since 2009, when you entered the Government of Galicia, the People's Party, the contractual activity of public administrations has been given priority as a determining area of action in a twofold objective: on the one hand, to achieve a more efficient administration in the use of public resources, which is more open, understood and simplified from the point of view of citizens' and businesses' relations. From this priority, less than a year after the Government took possession, in January 2010, the Board approved Decree 3/2010 of 8 January, so it regulates electronic invoices, the use of electronic, computer and telematic means in the field of public procurement of the Glaga Autonomous Community Administration and entities of its independent public sector. This standard has started several orders at the same time: the Galician public procurement platform, the electronic bidding system and the electronic billing system. In this latter one we have to remember that it has been set as an objective, firstly, the payment of invoices in an average of 45 days, and today, according to the Ministry's data, we are at 17. I think it's an important figure in the number of days. Similarly, Decree 3/2010, of which I was talking, suggested an important advance, especially in what is the creation of Galicia's public procurement platform, and this is the second most visited website of Junta.es, – as you know – after the DOG page. This makes it a very useful and highly valued tool for the knowledge and follow-up of current contract procedures for the Peme, so that they know the possibility of business with the public sector and also easily access the bids of the Self-Government. From this platform, the entrepreneur can access the consultation of prior information announcements, current tenders, the most recent adjudications, the documentation of interest, both public opening dates and publications in other media, etc. Or of the contact points and ways to communicate with the attached recruitment bodies, which now exceed the two hundred. As corollary to this whole process of reform and modernization, Law 17/2010, of 17 December, of the organisation and operation of the General Administration and of the autonomous public sector of Galicia, as you know, has been approved in this Parliament. This law has made it possible to clarify, order and systematize the structure of the autonomous public sector, as a first step in introducing measures for rationalization and simplification of the German legal system and of the autonomous public sector. This regulation, as you know, is a major step forward in terms of innovation in regulating contracts in the Italian public sector, protecting by law principles and obligations aimed at raising the levels of efficiency, flexibility and transparency of these procedures and strengthening their strategic use. It was the need for a broad development of this law that led to the development of a plan of its own, which was approved at the June 12, 2014 Board of Trustees. This Public Procurement Improvement Plan 2014-2016 has had a number of shared objectives, which involve the Administration, the business fabric and the entire citizenship. The aim is to achieve greater efficiency and savings for the Administration in hiring services, works and supply, and a reduction in procedures for the contractor, ensuring payments in time and form, competition between offers and choice of best. Finally, an optimization in the use of public resources to continue doing more with less. Well, several measures of this plan have already given their fruit, since immediately all public-autonomic contracts have been applied to the simplified documentation regime. It also began to operate the restriction of direct adjudication procedures to half the limits that mark state legislation, demanding competition between three companies above these new limits. Therefore, Galicia became the first autonomous community with greater openness in our recruitment procedures. In addition, it increased – perhaps more in December last year – when the Board approved a model of clauses for negotiated procedures that would allow different companies to know, after the first stage, the essential characteristics of their competitors' bids, opening up the possibility of amending their initial proposal to introduce new improvements to their bids. In September 2014 two instruments published in the DOG were approved, as you know. On the one hand, the catalogue of services that may be self-sustaining, not to resort to external consulting, as was customary up to that time; the drafting of services that are centrally contracted, expanding a practice initiated in 2009 in contracts such as cleaning, maintenance, security, fuel, electricity. And also say that in February of this year Amtega has made the loyal platform available to the Town Councils to extend the electronic auction to the local administration as well. Well, now we have to move forward, in that plan for improved recruitment, in another aspect that is the object of this non-law proposition, which is the adoption of guides that allow us to apply the principles set out in that Rationalization Act. Thus, fulfilling the axis of the second plan, it would include the development of a public-public collaboration guide, or horizontal one, for the proper functioning of the self-supply mechanism. Here the guide must have as object to simply present the possibilities that collaborative techniques offer for better management of our autonomic public sector, and this self-supply model expressly excludes from the obligation of public tender, the two most typical assumptions of internal collaboration. On the one hand, management orders or domestic or in-house contracts; and alleged collaboration between public authorities to carry out a common service mission of them. On the 2nd axis of the plan, we talked about access and competition, it also provided for the development of a guide for open public procurement to small and medium-sized enterprises. In this sense, a number of general guidelines are introduced to be taken into account by the contracting bodies of the autonomic public sector, in order to ensure that tenders to be launched allow the competition of small and medium-sized enterprises, as well as of incipient companies. And in order to help the contracting bodies fulfil this legal mandate, it is necessary for the Board to push that guide for open public procurement to small and medium-sized enterprises, providing contracting bodies, practical guidance and examples to set up a contract design that facilitates the competition of small and medium-sized enterprises through different mechanisms, such as the requirement for batch division, the need for subcontracting, or even the adaptation of solvency and guarantee requirements to the possibilities of Peme. And finally, in execution of axis number 4, strategic and social use, we need to draw up an innovative public procurement guide and a guide for social and environmental clauses in public procurement. Indeed, Article 28 of Law 14/2013 of 27 December 2013 on the rationalization of the public sector marks as an incentive for innovative solutions to become legally a priority objective of Galicia's public procurement, and for this effective development of innovative public procurement, the role of the Administration should be strengthened as a driving force for business innovation. And for that, it must work, from the demand of the public manager, with the bidding, the public-innovative procurement contracts and from the supply side, that is, the companies competing in the tenders, helping them in their competitive participation and presenting innovative offers to these procurement procedures. Well, to give practical application to the mandates of the law of these assets I have just expressed, it is important to implement the plan of the Board that develops this law and to put in place that guide of social and environmental clauses in public procurement which includes measures, practical guidelines and examples to introduce forecasts in this area, both in administrative clauses and in technical contract requirements. That is why we urge the Council of Galicia to speed up its commitment to develop these instructions and thus give proper compliance with the legal obligations of improving public procurement contained in the Rationalization Act which now entered into force a year ago and which this group has supported, the difference between the rest of the House. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u215	Thank you very much, Mrs. Prado. Intervention of parliamentary groups. Socialist Group. Mrs. Gallego Calvar.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u216	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. After hearing Mrs Prado put forward this initiative, it seemed that her motion for a resolution might be very interesting to all of the Members and Members in this House and even to the action of the Government of Galicia. But when you really read what the People's Parliamentary Group is voting on today in this initiative of impulse, it's just a matter of making guidelines. That is to say, the Greek Government makes a public collaboration guide, a public procurement guide open to pemes, an innovative public procurement guide and a guide for social and environmental clauses in public procurement. That is to say, what we socialists have usually seen as an initiative of autobombing and advertising and propaganda to occupy the space that the People's Parliamentary Group has in the initiatives of impulse within the agenda of each plenary meeting. Because the reality is quite different, the reality is that you are in this legislation, of the initiatives that have to do with transparency, with the regeneration of administrations, with the flexibility, with the good practices, with all the initiatives that we have put forward from the opposition groups, of course, from the Socialist Parliamentary Group, those that have to do with the implementation of social clauses and others that we have presented in the debates on the state of autonomy, in the motions for resolutions, in amendments to the budgets of the Union and in the various debates that on regeneration and on good practices in the public administration if they have done anything in this Parliament, they have never accepted anything. And what they have accepted, which were only social clauses, has not yet put them into action today. So much so, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, that the Council of Galicia violates its own legislation on recruitment in many respects. So what we socialists are doing is presenting them with a substitution amendment, which, if they really want to talk about transparency in the public administration, effective and efficient public procurement, information, lowering negotiated procedures, should accept this substitution amendment that we have submitted to them. Because it speaks precisely of this, of reducing the procedures negotiated without advertising, of publishing all the tenders in the Official Journal of Galicia – where the entities that make up the autonomous public sector are never published in the Official Journal of Galicia – to improve the information that is provided through the procurement platform, to include in the demands of new bids social clauses, both in the valuation of the offers of companies and in the setting of requirements in the performance of contracts, as well as in the protection and control of the performance of contracts. This is what we ask of the Socialists, and if you really want to acquire a commitment to transparency, information, good practices in the public administration, you should accept this initiative. Surely this is not the case and so you will continue to bring advertising and propaganda initiatives here – which I can tell you will not count on the support of the Socialist Parliamentary Group – for a larger vehicle in Galicia. Because, look, if we stop to analyze some of the data from last year 2014, for example, regarding the recruitment processes of the Galician Union, we can tell them that half of the adjudications made by the Galician Union – 47% – were not auctioned by public announcements in the Official Journal of Galicia – we speak of the last year –. And of unadvertised procedures, in 2014 40% of the total were made without any notice through the recruitment platform. In many cases these tenders could be opened. They weren't. Sometimes Junta makes open contracts, but its advertising only takes place through this recruitment platform, never in the Official Journal of Galicia. By this method, without advertising, without advertising in the DOG, 213 million euros were auctioned by the Galician Board during 2013 and 168 in 2014; in two years, 381 million euros were auctioned. These adjudications, for example...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u217	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u218	...the adjudications of public works. And if we talk – sorry, Madam President, I'm done right now – about what has to do with the autonomic public sector, the data is even more bloody. So, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, less publicity, less propaganda, transparency in public administrations cannot be brought here by recruitment guides. It can be published in the Official Journal of Galicia and in the recruitment platform for adjudications and contracts. You can do less procedures...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u219	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u220	...negotiated without advertising. And above all, it is achieved, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, with political will. As much as you're here trying to make it look like I'm an increasingly transparent administration, the data says...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u221	Thank you very much, Mrs Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u222	...just and literally the opposite. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u223	Joint Group. Mrs. Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u224	Well, I was very surprised by this non-law proposal because what it says in the explanatory statement is that the Public Procurement Improvement Plan envisages a series of measures, among them, given its importance, the adoption of a series of guides. And he says, "The Galician Parliament urges the Union to adopt measures necessary for the implementation of the following guides..." And then I looked for the Public Procurement Improvement Plan. It doesn't exist. Disc is approved. I don't know if anyone found him. I called Parliament's legal services. It doesn't exist, there's no such plan hanging anywhere. That's transparency. But, in addition, we're talking about the implementation of some guides that, in my view, do not exist either. So, I don't know what we want if we vote here, I'd like to know, at least, where they are. Because by asking even in Parliament itself for legal services, no one knows where such guides are. So I think it's incredible that we're talking about something we don't know about going, how it goes, what the concrete measures are; just propaganda, I found nothing more than propaganda on the pages of the Galician Union, propaganda in the form of an announcement by Mr. Núñez Feijóo, where it counts a lot of irrelevant things, lots of propaganda, grandoloquent words, but not a single concrete action. And besides where – this was June 12, 2014 – it commits itself to the release of the first guide within two months, the following within six months. As far as I know, here came absolutely nothing. So, and in the face of the dynamics of opaque bidding and violation of the labour rights of workers and workers in all contracts of the Galician Union, of course we are not going to give our vote in favour of something non-existent, to propaganda, so that workers and public workers continue to be beaten, and to employees and employees of contracts, for example – and we will talk about it again – the workers of the subcontracts of mobile telephony industries, such as those of Movistar. But we also wonder where is the so-called transparency, where is the dialogue for the elaboration of these guides, where is the real commitment to seeking a solution that is consistent with the problems of administration itself and the recruitment of administration. According to an answer that sends together to a question from the People's Party itself, the plan adopts 12th of 6th of 2014 and collects five axes. We're going to approve some catalogues of improvement and transparency, and we're talking about the preparation of a guide for public procurement with pemes. I'd like to know, in particular, that guide where you are, where you can come to know that guide, or where you can go to facilitate access to tenders and follow-up of bids. Therefore – and I am finished – my vote against something that is pure propaganda and which is intended to be approved with the eyes closed and without any kind of collaboration or listening to different alternatives that can bring about the opposition. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u225	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. Nationalist Block Galego. Mrs. Paz Franco has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u226	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you, Madam President. The truth is, when I read this initiative, I went through several emotional phases. First of all, I've had a low self-esteem, because I've said, "I must go crazy in the last fifteen days because I don't understand anything." And then I have to admit that I have recovered a little self-esteem, and I find myself well, they can be calm and calm. Let's see, I came to the following conclusion: that with this government we live, of course, in fiction and in permanent appearance. There is no more to read the explanatory statement of this initiative to see how we come back on the mantras with which the People's Party has overwhelmed us since 2009, basically consistent with its ability to do more with less, in its ability to introduce criteria and elements of rationalization of the functioning of the Public Administration, and ultimately to make a more transparent and more service of citizenship. But then, of course, I'm looking for documentation, and indeed, the first one, the laws he mentions exist. When you get to look for the documentation, essentially all the reference to the Public Procurement Improvement Plan 2014-2016, we find ourselves with another recurring issue. Here we have said on many occasions that for the People's Party Parliament is simply a dish in which to make press rounds. But we just discovered, or, rather than discover, to make sure definitely that the board of assembly too is only an excuse for San Caetano to serve as a plate for press rounds. Because, indeed, the only reference that exists of this plan is a supposed agreement of the Board of Boards on June 12, 2014, but that, indeed – that is my ability in the management of new technologies – I haven't been able to find the document either, rather than the reference of the Boards on boards. In that document it is said that a plan for improving public procurement is already approved, vertebrate in five axes, four of which refer to the initiative which Mrs Prado has presented to us here today. But curiously, following the temporal inquiry of what Galician Union has done in connection with this matter, we find ourselves with another surprise. Indeed, on January 13, 2015, one of the elements referred to in the Official Journal of Galicia is published in that press release by the Board of Trustees, which is the catalogue of means and benefits that the Board has to carry out in the form of self-supply, and the relationship of matters or services that will be centralised. But nothing more about any of the other five axes and nineteen measures that were mentioned in that press release of the June 12, 2014 Council of June 12, 2014. What if we found it was a very curious press release, I suppose the fruits of the hangover, because it's 1st of the 1st of 2015 – all that day we had some hangover. And it's a press release that literally says, in its headline, that the Board states that 90% of the measures recommended by the Cora Report have already been executed – literally – by the Galician Board. He then mentions several questions: the Plan Axillization 2014-2016 of administrative procedures – as you have now mentioned – he speaks of the plan for improvement approved in June 2014, Plan for the Improvement of Recruitment, as it is already implemented – 1 January an official press release by the Board of Galicia says that this plan is already implemented – and he also speaks of the third phase of the evaluation of entities dependent on the Administration. But it's funny that he also talks about that press release as well as the contents of Law 14/2013, of rationalization of the autonomic public sector, of what Mrs Prado has said here. So, I, at this point, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, what I want to ask you is, why do you want us to approve here in this Parliament today something that was already done on January 1st? I don't know exactly what they want us to approve. Especially because, in addition, all the issues referred to by your initiative in the operative part are set out in Article 19, 22, 23, 24 and 25 of the law...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u227	Finish it, Mrs. Paz, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u228	... as taxes. In other words, Junta by law has to recruit according to social, environmental criteria, and taking into account innovation criteria. So to me, frankly, it seems to me that we are again faced with an initiative to solemnize the obviousness and urge the Government to fulfill what the Government says it has already done. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u229	Thank you very much, Mrs. Paz. Parliamentary Group of the Left Galician Alternative. [[Pause.]] I understand, then, that if the honourable Member is not present and no representative of the group comes out, we step in with the next speaker. For the author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Prado has the floor. From the bench, please. Please give a voice to Mrs. Prado del Río's chair.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u230	Yes, thank you very much, Madam President. Well, the truth is, my self-esteem is going to go in now, because it looks like what I just talked about ten minutes ago no one heard it, not even the speakers who were going to intervene. Because, on the one hand, Mrs. Martínez says that there are no such guides, when the non-law proposition to which she refers is to urge the Union to draw up those guides. There certainly is no such thing as Martínez, we are urging the Board to draw them up. Therefore, my self-esteem will indeed come down. Mrs. Peace, I also said that the plan is a plan of the years 2014-2016. It's true that there are issues that are already under way, it's true, because we're already in 2015. I don't know if at best in that press release because there was some hangover, I don't know, but of course, in my intervention, I've also quoted some measures of that plan that were already in progress, measures that are already taking, indeed, bearing fruit. And here's what we're doing is urging Together to continue to develop and continue to finish, ending, that plan, because, I insist, it's 2014-2016. Well, as far as the amendment of the Socialist Party is concerned, Mrs Gallego, the truth is that I am not surprised that it is you who intervenes, because, of course, it is sent to you because the rapporteur, the rapporteur who was rapporteur in the laws to which I refer, because logically it has no face to go out there saying the things you said. Because the truth is that we have just passed a law of quality of public services – by the way, that you voted against and that you haven't even been able to pass an amendment in relation to the recruitment and social clauses, you voted against – and now you intend to remedy your bad conscience by asking for what you voted against not many months ago in this House and from that same seat, Mrs. Gallego. The truth is, it's amazing that you're presenting an auto-bomb amendment to make you think you're in agreement... yes, of course, my initiative is auto-bomb, but your amendment is something more than auto-bomb, because they've been systematically voting against laws that you've been asking for. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] They ask to restrict those negotiated without advertising. Look, it was the Galician Junta who reduced the thresholds to half in order to be able to enter into smaller contracts that marked the law of state contracts, which approved Mr. Rodríguez Zapatero; it restricted those contracts to the Greek Law of rationalization, which you voted against, which was passed from 50,000 to labor contracts and from 18,000 to service contracts. We went down to 25,000 for works and 9,000 for supplies and services – with their votes against –. They request to establish as a requirement for the performance of the contract the fulfilment of the company's labour obligations. Look, Article 49 of the Public Service Quality Act, which has just come into force and which you voted against, already establishes. They call for the inclusion of persons with disabilities through public procurement, when it was also a rule of this government, the Government of the People's Party, the Law of Rationalization, which I laid down for the first time in Galicia public procurement obligations for special employment centres and insertion companies working with disabled people. Do you know what you voted for, Mrs. Gallego? On the contrary, on the contrary, and you know it. And they also complain about the lack of transparency in the Government of Galicia's contracts. Look, the DOG is publishing entity contracts, published by Antega, Waters, Cixtec, consortia. And the web platform I've just told you about – I invite you to visit it – is much more transparent, it's much better than the DOG, since it has an alert service for subscriptions to bidders, Mrs. Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u231	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u232	So, just as there's now no dog on paper, there's only one online, because there's also that platform online, which is much better than publication in the dog because, I insist, it has that alert service. I regret that they vote against a question that improves the effectiveness and efficiency of the recruitment, including you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u233	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u234	They have been voting against this subject systematically in recent years. Don't you come and say things now...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u235	Thank you very much, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u236	...you would find those who then vote in this Parliament. Nothing more and thank you very much. [[Applause]] G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Alternative Galaga de Left, at the initiative of Mr. Juan Manuel Fajardo Recouso, on the action to be taken by the Government of Greece for payment to the account of the fundamental part of wages or compensation of workers affected by employers' compensation processes
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u237	This motion for a non-law amendment was tabled by the Joint Group, the Socialist Group and the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block of Wales.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u238	To formulate the non-law proposition has the word Mr. Juan Fajardo Recouso.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u239	Good afternoon again in this lovely afternoon session. We have taken an initiative that is not because it is hidden in the data is less important, and that is why we want to bring it to Parliament's plenary session. There are some issues that are not everyday, that don't come out in the major press headlines, but that are realities they face, not tens of thousands of workers every day in this country. And in this country there's already been a new term, which is the workaholic zombie, which is that worker who's going to work every day because he has to go, because he has to meet, because he has to lock, because he has to produce, but when he comes to the end of the month he doesn't charge his payroll. These workers work in many companies, even in companies that work in the administration. In Galicia today we can see how over 600 Telare workers go every day to their shop, sell clothes, enter that money, but it turns out that in their payrolls there is not a single weight when it comes to the end of the month. Also the workers of Foelca, in the region of Barbanza – who received tens of millions of the public archives that company – have been unpaid for months, and in some case more than nine months. Workers elsewhere in the state, Everest, Lanas Stop, from the media like Editorial La Capital, who don't receive their payroll every month. That's a reality that, of course, if you don't suffer it, you don't know what it means. Because, in addition to the suffering of not having wages, you have the added suffering of going to perform a job for which you have no remuneration. And that was an isolated element long ago, now it's even a method of extortion. The People's Party has managed to introduce into labor relations a new mechanism, a new variable, which is the variable of fear: the variable of fear to mobilize you because there's nothing out there, the variable of fear to mobilize you because it's possible that this penalizes you in future jobs and the variable of going to trial, because everything is recorded and then the next employer can take into account that at some point you claimed what a right is. And so those issues are tremendously complex. And behind the reduction data of ERE extinction there are issues like these, entrepreneurs who even receive criteria from business groups like that, if they're planning to fire, it's best at first to stop paying payrolls. Because a worker who doesn't receive his payroll often doesn't hold up and therefore in many cases abandon his job; which means that they won't be able to pay those payrolls, they won't be able to collect compensation and they won't be able to charge unemployment, in addition, because there's no legal unemployment situation. To avoid these issues we should do something, because the only way these workers have is to claim before the social court, and as soon as three months of payrolls arrive; to demand for them to be paid or claimed to be cleared of the contract and, therefore, to be without their job. Given that we have to wait three months and the social waiting list can be six, seven or nine months, we are with workers who are absolutely unprotected. It's even more: they're unprotected from the administration, because the Labour Counsellor himself knew that the labour authority, who can issue a wage-free penalty, doesn't have to pay those wages. I mean, as a worker, I'm in my company, they don't pay the salary, I call the Labour Inspectorate, an act of infringement is lifted, and the act of infringement means a fine to the employer but in no case requires him to pay the salary immediately. So that whole set of conditions is making the labour market in this country now have a new element, which is that situation of workers who have to produce without that production being compensated for by wages. In that sense, we raise a question that is quite simple: that a mechanism should be set up from the Board so that, in the process of employers' defaulting demonstrated – we believe that demonstrated in a resolution of the Labour Court, which is much more agile than a judicial resolution, although, if they have it, it is worth it – if you articulate some mechanism so that the Board itself can anticipate those wages, it can compensate those wages, since it has far more effective and agile formulas to charge the company that the workers themselves have. And that's our proposal. It is clear that this is a situation that we all know except the People's Party, because the changes in the contributions of opposition groups are improving our proposal, that what we want to put on the table is a very serious problem that is never taken into account, the most serious problem of a new working relationship mechanism and a new pressure mechanism. Why is it that when a job reform is done it is always to cut down rights and not to recognize, for example, the employee employed the obligation to receive his salary in time and form and agile management mechanisms to recover that salary? Why can't that be? Because the People's Party is an accomplice and an expert of this new reality, the reality that it is supposed to use these mechanisms in the end does not pay any wages. So we're talking about a new conception of working relationships, in a place where you've already paid the salary doesn't even mean you have the ability to get loosely by the end of the month. And I put a data on the table. Perhaps any of the parliamentarians who are here today, if a month does not receive Parliament's salary, nothing would happen. I'm sure some would protest at minute two not to receive their salary, but it wouldn't happen, because I would have the ability to, with previous wages, to resist. But the situation out there, of the labour market, of the reality of the workers who go to their post every day, is not that. Because one in three workers in this country, one in three, receive less than 645 euros gross a month. So imagine, when a worker receives just 600 euros each month for his work, which is not only a delay but a single default, he assumes a lot of inconvenience in many cases to lose his home, to cuts in the light, to supply cuts, and even to an aberration that is given in this country, which is the following: that is, before default to your municipality in a tax, at a fee, not because of your responsibility but that a company has not paid you and you cannot justify a resolution, you automatically stay out of any kind of contribution. And so there are workers in this situation who have lost, for example, their children's scholarships because they're not aware of the public farm, because they couldn't afford to pay even though they're working, because they don't get that salary. And it's the worker's responsibility, not the employer who's not paying that salary. So we, our proposal – and we finish – is very simple: that this mechanism is an articulate that allows, by means of the formula that is specified in a timely manner by the technicians of the Union, mechanisms of immediate collection of these wages so that workers do not have situations like those that live every day. And, therefore, I end by sending solidarity from our group – and we will bring initiatives here in that sense – to the workers of the Tellares, who have been unpaid for months and have not received any kind of help from the Administration, who should look after their situation. And on the other hand, by trade unions and leftist political organizations, which we believe these kinds of injustices cannot be accepted. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u240	Thank you, Mr. Fajardo. Intervention of parliamentary groups. Mrs Martínez of the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u241	Well, although I have tabled an amendment to this non-law proposal, I have already announced that I will give my vote in favour of it. In mid-April, to an interpellation put forward by me on this subject, the Labour Counsellor literally responded that she trusted the Greek workers to denounce the default of their wages and the delay in the collection of their payrolls. Clearly, the Italian workers and workers, as the AGE spokesman well said, report, which doesn't mean that this complaint at the Labour Inspectorate is going to pay for their wages; therefore, it is months, until the trial is celebrated, in which they are not working. But in addition, the advisor said the Government is watching for workers' labour rights to be respected, for they strictly comply with regulations and for all contracts to be exactly as they were signed. A real lie. The Union is inhibited from acting in any labour conflict. It did not act, for example, at Hotel Palacio de Sober, and even in companies with which it is related, such as Povisa or in the contracts of Movistar or the naval sector of Ferrol. The advisor also indicated that in 2014 there were 572 actions carried out by the Inspectorate linked to default or late payment of wages. I understand they're more than enough for the council to act. Because despite the precariousness of the German labour market, the low wages of our country, there are still entrepreneurs who want to steal this misery or pay part of the salary in cans of cans of cans. Thus, there are companies that, protected by the administration's inaction, swindle workers and workers in various ways: by forcing them to buy uniforms, by paying off breaks, abuse of scholarships, abuse of students in practice, extra hours off, default of displacement between work centres, etc. In my interview, I quoted several companies that owe wages to their workers, such as the Hotel Palacio de Sober, with which in full crisis he mobilized some four million euros in credits and assistance to Junta. To work longer hours than the contract of employment is a reality today in Galicia. The type of job being created is precarious and is produced in low value added sectors that generate unstable jobs, and where low wages are paid, the same error in the past. We need to create a productive structure based on industry and technology and R & D+i. Services and construction, as I have said more than once, create precarious work. Half of the Galicians and other affiliated Greeks have a precarious employment contract or part-time employment contract. The Administration pays millions of employees to those with whom it hires services and then they don't pay their workers, 240 workers were affected in 2014 by defaults in different administrative concessions, including Palacio Sober, Grupo Pazos, Linorsa, Cleanet, Clece, Nete Galicia de Kioscos... and we could follow. How did Xunta respond in the above-mentioned cases? With mutism, claiming, as always, that the conflict between companies and workers is not of their competence. So you see the PP for the rights of the working class, for the rights of companies that meet the law and pay the wages of agreement. The Administration simply selects the most economical company, when not the most friendly. Workers often – as the spokesman for the Gaga de Left Alternative said – have to end up opting to leave their jobs in the face of the inability to continue attending without receiving income. I am presenting an amendment, which is not the first time I present it, because it seems fundamental to me that in this transparency that comes from the People's Party in those guides that just sold us Mrs. Paula Prado don't pick up...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u242	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u243	...no measure to ensure the protection of workers. So the amendment is directed, and I'm not going to read it now, to which companies that do not comply with labour law with their workers and those companies that use the public money they receive for purposes other than those that have to go to. Waiting for them to accept the amendment, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u244	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. You have the floor to Mrs. Prado Cores.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u245	During this plenary meeting we have spoken enough about the employment situation in Galicia. We have talked about the consequences of continuing labour reforms, cuts, loss of rights, precariousness, how all this endangers the lives and safety of workers and workers, and how the measures they have taken and those that are taking greatly aggravate the situation of the working class in Greece. It's a finding that the unimaginable numbers of unemployed people make that there are thousands of people in a situation of much difficulty, that there are many people below the poverty line, that there are many people who accept precarious working conditions, who agree to work longer hours and pay less, who agree to work extra hours without charge, that they do not require the security conditions that contemplate legislation, that they accept, in short, unacceptable working conditions, that they make all kinds of sacrifices to keep companies at fleet when they tell them that they have problems, that they make all kinds of sacrifices to save these jobs. But then, when these companies decide not to pay, they leave the workers and workers who were willing to make all kinds of sacrifices to save their jobs. The Galician Nationalist Block coincides with the diagnosis made here by the Member who presents this initiative. We agreed with the diagnosis, but we believe that the approach of the problem must be made by going to the source of the problem. And the origin of it is the existence of a social security fund, Fogasa, which does not fulfill the mission for what was created. That mission was no other than to ensure that workers and workers of broken businesses cover part of their wages and compensation. This Fire does not meet the conditions, does not meet the functions for which it was created. He does not comply with the delay in handling the files, an unsustainable delay for the workers and workers who suffer from them. It does not meet the delays in payments, which, as has already been said, mean that these workers, in a situation already in most cases very precarious, cannot wait. It does not comply with the lack of staff, which has already been denounced here in this Parliament. It also does not comply with the changes that have been made and that have led to the increase in the State's contribution to the maintenance of Fogasa through budgets and to the decrease in the contribution of companies. In other words, it was changing the legislation to subsidize the dismissal at the expense of taxes rather than subsidizing the payment of employment. That's why we tabled an amendment asking for the transfer of the Fogasa. We demand that Galicia decide on the issues of interest, the issues affecting the Greeks and the Greeks – and, of course, the defence of the interests of the working class is a priority for the Galego Nationalist Block – and the transfer of Fogasa so that the Greek Government assumes the active role in the claim and assumption of competences to defend and protect our working class. An amendment requesting the regulatory capacity of the Government of Greece to be able to dimension the Social Guarantee Fund so as to be more agile, agile in the resolution of the files and agile in payments, which calls for the transfer of the necessary economic resources so that it can fulfil that function of protection for workers and workers when their companies do not comply with payments; a amendment requesting the transfer that allows the measures to allow this immediacy of payments to be implemented and to resolve the slow process of recognising the state of default of companies. And an amendment for which we call for the repeal of the reforms...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u246	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u247	...that this capacity of action of the Fogasa has been diminished and that at present it does not serve those interests of workers and workers, and that it also calls for the transfer of inspectoral capacity in the field of work, an inspectoral capacity that allows the Greek Government to have public instruments to act in the face of the state's inaction at the moment, which is who has the competences. Today's legislation allows companies to be punished for not...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u248	Finish it, Mrs. Prado, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u249	...pay in time and form, but you don't have any mechanism to pay. That's why we believe that it is necessary to assume those responsibilities and go to a regulatory amendment so that the German Government will not continue to look elsewhere in so many cases where...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u250	Thank you very much, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u251	...at this time a large number of workers are immersed in our country.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u252	Socialist Parliamentary Group. You have the word Mr. Abel Losada Álvarez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u253	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen. Well, we're still talking about employment, or rather unemployment. It is true that after the classes of civic education, or formation of the national spirit – as you prefer – that gave us counsellor Mato in the morning, and also of public accounting, strongly referred to by the spokesperson of the People's Group, and on budgets and budget execution, I, in a way I do not know whether it is solemn but yes, let's say, of course, I dare to present the official documentation that says that the performance of function 32, of promotion of employment, exceeds 68.78 % in the year 2014. When the Counsellor, or Mr. Tellado, intermittently, present to us this documentation, then either we have to cease the spokeswoman from Galicia or I do not know how to divide. And divide, Mr. Tellado, I know. It's about dividing recognized obligations between existing credits. I understand it's not very complex; therefore 68.78%. It's the only way we can really talk about things. Because the problem is that employment is becoming these thousands of squares in day centers, in schools from 0 to 3 years old, of which every Wednesday the president of the board and Mrs Mato, who comes at a time when, if we add them all, there are more squares than children from 0 to 3 years old in Galicia, and more squares of day centers than 65 years old. [[Applause]] And the only thing that becomes this is a circus. The truth is, that's what they're trying to do at the bottom, to turn it into a circus. I mean, we tabled an amendment. The Socialists will support the initiative of the Gaga de Left Alternative irrespective of whether they accept our amendment. I think the perfect incumbent of the circus told us in the electoral campaign President Rajoy: "Who talks today about unemployment in Spain?" No one, there is only 23.87 % unemployment rate. And it's the main problem in this country for 85% of the people who did the CIS survey. So what frivolity! Right, speaking of unemployment, it's a thing of snobs, almost, almost, of Pontevedra casino. The truth is, it's really hard to understand. But the truth is that this unemployment that dramatically affects a lot of people is also affecting – and it links directly to the idea of the initiative – the working conditions of the people who work. Because it's empirically shown that, when unemployment is very high, the working conditions of the workers, it's worth redundancy, they get worse systematically. And they're getting worse! because the wage gap is increasing by 25% in Galicia after seven years of crisis; that is, since it began this increase in unemployment than, according to Rajoy, nobody talks. So that's the problem. And, indeed, in this case it is a concrete problem through Fogasa and a series of delays in payments that pose problems for the country and for specific families. But we're actually talking about a problem that goes further, because we're talking about the structural problem of this country. Because, as labor conditions worsen, the competitiveness of the productive system worsens, and we ended up competing with other countries that are not the ones we should compete with, or of course an alien who had come to this planet or this Parliament and had heard the Industry 4.0 advisor think we would have to compete with. Because to speak of Industry 4.0 and to tolerate unemployment levels, wage drop levels, the increasingly fundamental wage gap, genuine dissociation between human capital formation and labour offers in Galicia and Spain at present, or it is either an insult to the intelligence of these Members, which may also be, or is either pure and simply ignorance. In addition, I do not say so, it is said by the official reports, by the academic studies. ILO has just said that Spain needs to increase protection for precarious employment. For something it will be. It can be, for example, because precarious employment is increasing. Don't you think that should be one of the reasons why the International Labour Organization is telling the Government of Spain to do this?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u254	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u255	Look, today, the advisor – I insist, in a hoax of fair play, education and kindness that truly, at least this Member, who is very sensitive, has turned out to be exciting – has forgotten a data. Well, he forgot two facts. The first is that you have in your autonomous community 150,000 workers who have been unemployed for over a year, and, of that, 20,000 – 20,000 people, eh!, are some – who are over 55 years old. Have you ever heard of Mrs. Counsellor or Mr. Tellado – in addition to talking about Zapatero –...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u256	Finish, please, Mr. Losada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u257	Finished, Madam President. Have you ever heard of Mrs. Counsellor, or Mr. Tellado, in addition to talking about Zapatero and Andalusia, some kind of plan, solution, even memory or appointment of these people who really have difficulties? None, because the department, however much it appears on its own request, Mrs. Mato, is pure and simply advertising and propaganda, in this case through the Fire and the Fire Competition...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u258	Thank you very much, Mr. Losada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u259	...and in many other cases, with a country that workfully bleeds literally.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u260	For the Popular Group, Mr. Trenor López.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u261	Good afternoon. I share, and I also find it very serious what Mr. Fajardo denounces. He even does an analysis that's quite close to what's happening, but really I'm sorry that the rest of the groups are absolutely talking about anything less than what Mr. Fajardo is proposing, which makes the group proposing this non-law proposal. We also share the need for a fund to meet the fundamental part of the wages of workers affected by default processes, as you are requesting in your non-law proposal. And I want to remember that that fund, or at least one part, already exists, which is the Salary Guarantee Fund, which depends on the Ministry of Employment and Social Security. But you, Mr. Fajardo, are not referring exactly to that. And the amendments proposed to you by the rest of the groups, even if you say those amendments propose improvements, they have absolutely nothing, nothing to do with what you're proposing. The Galician Nationalist Block proposes the transfer of the Salary Guarantee Fund. The Socialist Party, apart from speaking absolutely nothing of this fund proposed by Mr Fajardo, makes proposals there to modify the tax implications on the assistance benefits that Fogasa has as well. And the best is the Joint Group, which asks for what is already envisaged in the current legislation. It's a pity Mrs. Martínez isn't here. Because in the current legislation, companies who are convicted of failing to comply with labour law and workers' rights, as provided for in the State basic law on public procurement, are already excluded from public procurement. And they are also excluded from access to aid and grants, in concrete article 10.2 of the Galician Grants Act. It's true that this amendment has already brought it back, we told you it was being done. And as much as his lordship – absent from the proposal, that does not deny the existence of this regulation. Fogasa is a state agency that was created as a guarantee of wage rights in the employer's insolvency, and among its functions is to pay workers the wages and compensation that companies have not paid, either because they were in an insolvency situation or because they were declared in a competitive position, with which the assumptions are perfectly defined. And, Mr. Fajardo, I think it's a rather serious issue to bring up a proposal so undefined and even recognize here that it's already the technicians who articulate a timely mechanism. The Fire has been created precisely as a guarantee of payment for all those workers in this situation. On inspection and mediation, we must remember that the Council of Galicia has these two basic mechanisms to comply with the labour rights of all workers and workers in our community, and to strictly comply with our contracts. The Labour and Social Security Inspectorate monitored the workers' working conditions. He's not looking for sanctions, but for the protection of citizens and workers who comply with the law. Within this protection, of course, it is evident that workers earn their wages and that they meet the wage conditions of the agreement to which they are subject. And if the Inspectorate detects that there is a company that fails to pay wages, it will have to raise an act of infringement. In 2014, the complaints lodged with this Labour Inspectorate, 582 actions were made for default or late payment of wages.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u262	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u263	And in this line, we have to emphasize that the Labour and Welfare Council is strengthening inspectoral activity. More than 37,500 service orders are scheduled for this year. And it's true that, when there's a conflict and you don't want to be judicialized, there's another mechanism, which is mediation, which allows these agreements to be reached. And for that there are also trade unions and business associations, which have signed the new Greek agreement on extrajudicial settlement of labour conflicts.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u264	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u265	And nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u266	Thank you very much. The author group of the non-law proposal has the floor to be positioned on the amendments. Mr. Fajardo. Please give a voice to Mr. Fajardo's chair.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u267	The truth is, you don't stop wondering like a person who's been working in the institutions for many years, even the director of Plan Ferrol and these things... of course, you don't know what it's like not to charge a payroll, because you've always been sucking on the roof of the People's Party, it's hard not to know what it is... Don't be so angry, don't be so angry, man, that everyone talks as you know. [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] Don't be so angry. I say he comes here and confuses things. First, the mediation service of the SMAC, which is a pre-mandatory step towards a social demand, is not mandatory for the entrepreneur to go, he has no obligation to go. So you should know that's not what you think. The agreement between trade unions and employers for the resolution of conflicts has nothing to do with wage compensation, because it is the resolution of collective conflicts, negotiations, non-compliance with the agreement, but it is not a wage compensation. So before you come here and talk so openly you read things or, at least, the legislation you are, let's say, in this matter. And then to suggest that the inspection work guarantees the collection of wages is a barbarity. The advisor has already said it and you have said it again. An Act of Infringement of the Salary Unpaid Inspection is a fine, which in many cases is less than the default that this company has with the workers; and it gives no guarantee of recovery, that in order for you to have payment guarantees you have to go to the trial and it takes six, seven, eight months to charge. So it's a serious matter that the leaders of the People's Party on these issues don't know the situation and don't know the mechanisms. Of course, I understand that you never had to go to the Labour Inspectorate to check whether or not the People's Party was working with you in business terms. Surely, if he were one of the treasurers, yes; because they had that question of disparate layoffs and that kind of question. Of course, it seems tremendously serious to us that you on the one hand recognize the reality of the situation and then do a whole circle of opposition not to accept the proposal, but also to be able to suggest that there is a work inspector's program to control these situations when you know it's false. I'll give you a date that you can contrast whenever you want. Do you know that 75% of the work inspectorate's performances are dedicated to? Controlling workers, controlling that there is fraud, for example, of an unemployed worker working, but not controlling the contractor that causes that unemployed person to go to work; or controlling companies that have an ERE, for example, of reducing the number of jobs and forcing their workers to work more on that day reduction. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Excuse me?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u268	The amendments, Mr. Fajardo, that are already running out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u269	If I've told you at first I'd accept them. Man, I started out there. It's not my fault you're not paying attention.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u270	Quiet!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u271	Man, of course, if you want to cut my thread...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u272	I apologize, but I haven't heard anything about the amendments, because I'm very attentive from the beginning.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u273	Well, I can assure you it was the first thing I said. If you're not careful, of course, when this spokesman speaks, he's thinking about what he cuts me off, not speaking right or speaking wrong. [[Murmurs.]] What I was suggesting is that it is an aberration by the People's Party who do not understand what the proposal is and, of course, that they are able to say that there is a reality and that there is this problem and that they are then unable to accept our proposal, which is clear: a fund to cover those situations that affect more than 1,000 employees in Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u274	Mr. Fajardo, thank you very much. In fact, each one speaks as he knows and I'm not taking anything away from him because there you are, but if I'm going to call it in order by the expressions he used earlier by virtue of 105. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Yes, yes. We continue with the development of the agenda. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. People of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr Hippolyto Farínas Sobrino and seven other Members, on the adoption by the Government of Greece of the measures necessary to deepen the implementation of educational programmes, methodologies and subjects that promote improvement in the skills in oral expression of the student of ESO and bacharelate
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u275	This motion for a non-law was presented with an amendment by the Socialist Group and an amendment by the Nationalist Block of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u276	You have the floor, to formulate the non-law proposition, Mrs. Piñeiro. Mrs. Piñeiro, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u277	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon, gentlemen. Since our initiative speaks of oratory, it comes a little to the hair of what the Voice Lord of AGE has just said, who says that each one speaks as he knows. Then we'll try to find out something better. And let me tell you a recommendation that gives an expert in oratory, that says you should always read twice as much as you write, write twice as much as what you hear and hear twice as much as what you talk about. And some people in this House are sick of the ability to listen. [[Applause]] We all know that today we are starting from the circumstance that the Welsh education system is at a stage in adapting the curricula of ESO and the bachelor's degree to the new organic law. We consider from the People's Parliamentary Group that we can and should take this opportunity to focus on empowering them to learn by skills, considering skills as knowledge in practice; knowledge acquired through active participation in social practices that, as such, can be developed both in the formal educational context and in non-formal educational contexts, conceptualizing as a knowledge to make it apply to a diversity of academic, social and professional contexts. Well, within this skill learning, today we would like to see it sink a little further into language skills, as it seems to us that they form a central element in the teaching and learning process. In the sum of these circumstances and the key importance of language skills, we propose today to address the important aspect of their relationship with communication, with argumentation and with expressiveness. In the People's Parliamentary Group we agree on this with Agustín Rosa, an expert in speaking, when he says that communicating effectively is a basic skill today but rarely taught in Spanish schools. We also agreed that improving the teaching and communication skills in young people would have a positive effect on their school performance; let us take into account the difficulties faced by our schoolchildren today in understanding and interpreting texts, and would also contribute positively to their personal and professional development. It also says this expert that in the work environment they could, among other things, improve their skills of assertivity, leadership and empathy. Ladies and gentlemen, don't you think it's worth providing our youth with all the tools at our disposal to prepare them for the challenges that their social and work future will present? We in the People's Parliamentary Group think so. And with this initiative, we want to urge the Education Council to continue to persevere in its integral commitment by policies geared towards the pursuit of educational quality and also to provide solutions to possible shocks or deficits that can present our system. Clearly, oral communication and understanding and interpretation of texts are one of them. And some of you are teachers and know it's a reality. They also tell us the experts on the subject, when they tell us that our students are afraid to speak in public and tend to be uninhibited and cowardly before others when they have to express themselves in front of a group of people. Which often leads them to believe less in their own possibilities and themselves. Ladies and gentlemen, today we consider it more important than ever that our youth learn to speak in public. And I say today is more important than ever because at this time almost everything we say, almost everything we express, is reflected on social networks. The advantages of learning oral expression techniques would be a lot for the student, thinking both of his present and of his future. In the short term, prayer would help them to do better at school, to understand, to interpret, to communicate, to express and to relate. And in the future, it must be borne in mind that a student trained in communication, argumentation and expressiveness has more possibilities in a globalized and competitive world, possibilities to stand out, to integrate into a team, to have the ability to work as a team, to look for work, or even to create and manage his own company. They tell experts that today they don't just come up with talent and training, that they choose the training they choose, everyone has to communicate, everyone has to express their ideas, and everyone has to establish arguments and relate to each other. It must also be noted that oratory is not a gift, it is an art that can be learned. Being like this, ladies and gentlemen, isn't it worth giving that opportunity of learning to the German student? We believe that yes, and we believe that from the educational point of view we should provide them with the possibility of strengthening and improving language skills and communicative action to our young people, within social practices in which people interact with other partners in various fields, and through multiple formats and supports. This vision of linguistic communication linked to social practices is an image of the person as a communicative agent, which, in addition to receiving messages, also has to produce them, so competition in linguistic communication represents a path of knowledge and contact with social and cultural diversity. The domain of oral expression is one of the transversal goals specific to secondary education, and it must work on all subjects. In addition, the necessary measures must be developed so that their ability to express themselves properly in public is at work from the curricular and methodological point of view. Discursive capacity itself is clearly linked to the development of critical knowledge and social participation, in addition to the possibility of peacefully resolving conflicts and strengthening attitudes of initiative, creativity, teamwork and self-confidence. In Galicia there are already successful experiences that show the interest among the younger in this type of dialectic-related activities, oratory-related activities, oral expression and debate. We therefore consider that encouraging the teaching oratory allows students to learn to speak in public through a preparation based on structured and critical acquisition of information. And also, in academic activity, oratory must be a cross-sectional competition, but you can enable measures that help its implementation in teaching. Oratory can be worked out from four basic areas: information, argumentation, communication and persuasion. All this seems to us to contribute to improving the educational ability of students, as well as adequately preparing them for the challenges that society and the world of work will present to them. For all this, we present for your approval the following proposal: "The Galician Parliament urges the Galician Union to take the necessary measures to deepen the implementation of educational programmes, methodologies and even materials that promote improvement in the skills in oral expression through discursive practices, oratory and argumentation that result in a greater expressive capacity of the Greek student of compulsory secondary education and of Bachelorship." Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u278	Thank you, Mrs. Piñeiro. Intervention of parliamentary groups. For the Galician Nationalist Block, Mr. Pombo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u279	Thank you, President, good afternoon. In the light of the explanatory statement of this non-law proposal, which speaks of the necessary adaptation of the curricula of ESO and Bacharelate to LOMCE by boosting the oratory, the BNG Parliamentary Group will once again pretend to delay the application of LOMCE in Galicia, both in primary and secondary, to avoid what we understand as very negative consequences that this law is introducing into the Greek educational system. In the morning we also debated a motion regarding LOMCE, and the BNG made the ongoing struggle to avoid this law which we consider to be totally harmful and lethal to the interests of the Greek education system, which even undermines, to our understanding, the competences of the Board on the subject of education, on the subject of assessments, also in the reference to which curricula were imposed – both in primary and also intended to impose in secondary education and Bachelorship – by the way, away from our reality, our history, our culture and our geography, even from our language. And as the Education Council, instead of getting ahead of it and looking for proper and proper curricula to our reality, because it obeys Mr. Wet's saying – I don't know if it's going to walk towards the OECD – it's not strange, for, the BNG's stance on this non-law proposition that makes reference to how to focus the new ESO and Bachelor's Curriculums. It is no wonder that we ask to postpone the application of LOMCE in Galicia as the only way to avoid a totally lethal law for our teaching. Last week, the Galician Platform for Public Education qualified LOMCE – with words and read what they said – as "a harmful law for the Greek public education that impedes the right to education of all students, which privatizes and commercializes education, distorts equality of opportunity, eliminates democratic management of centres, strengthens confessionality, promotes the segregation of students and reintegrates the revals of franchiseism". Therefore, also last week, the Galician School Council called for delaying the application of LOMCE, called for the withdrawal of the decree establishing the curricula of ESO and Bacharelate adapted to LOMCE in Galicia to avoid improvisations, fears and defects caused by the hasty implementation of LOMCE in this academic course. And they did it, before the School Council, the practice of all the teaching unions, the Confapa, the University of Compostela and even the Coordinator Galaga de Movementes de Renovación Pedagoxica. Even claims the postponement of LOMCE to most of the educational community, which is already full of improvisations, budget cuts, cuts of staff and continuing taxes that damage the quality and prestige of public education in Greek. The Welsh educational community does not want to repeat the purpose of this school course, in which the primary decrees were passed on the eve of the start of the school course. The teacher did not count on the final documents he needed for the course planning and programming until September. The management teams didn't count on time and shape with the documents they needed in order to establish the staff and schedules. For all the above, the BNG Parliamentary Group – and I will finish – presents a replacement amendment for the Greek Parliament to urge the Galician Parliament to take the necessary steps to accept the withdrawal of the decree establishing the curriculum of ESO and Bachelorship in Galicia that the Galician School Council requested last week. I do not deny the importance of oratory, but it also seems to me that we cannot continue to sink into the imposition of curricula that despise our history, our culture, our thought, art and our own language. We can't continue to sink into elaborate curricula behind our social, historical and cultural reality, we can't continue to teach in the student of Galicia the ignorance of what conforms us and identifies us as Greeks. Not to continue promoting all this, not to impose a LOMCE that has already been born dead and has expiry date, I hope you will accept the amendment of the BNG for the good of the Greek public education. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u280	Thank you very much, Mr. Pombo. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Burgo López has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u281	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good afternoon, gentlemen. Mrs. Piñeiro, I agree with you on one thing: the importance of listening. That's absolutely true. And I think you should agree on that too and apply that need to listen, because on Sunday all citizens, both Galician and Spanish, spoke loud and clear, saying that they didn't approve their policy of cutting, nor their policies of cutting into education. But, on the other hand, your answer, Mr. Feijóo's and Mr. Rajoy's response, was to say that nothing changed, that everything would continue the same. [[Applause]] So they didn't listen. Well, speaking of your initiative, I have to tell you, Mrs. Piñeiro, that I understand your need, like the need of Mr. Farínas, like that of all the parliamentarians of the People's Party, to present here some initiative. And as for education, I also understand the difficulty you have in presenting weight initiatives, initiatives that serve something, because the educational policies of the People's Party are virtually nonexistent if it's not through the cuts, and you can't introduce that here. As no other really important weight initiative would be accepted by the Counsellor, you have to bring here initiatives that are intra-responsive initiatives, initiatives of appearance, of occurrence, initiatives to try to say that something is done without doing anything. In the previous plenary was chess and today is the oratory, tomorrow we don't know what it will be, whatever happens to you in a moment. That, in any of your initiatives – not in this either – is absolutely nothing about a programme, goals, concrete measures, a budget. There's nothing, there's something that doesn't mean anything, that really doesn't say anything. Besides, I can't understand this initiative right now, as I don't understand where the initiative is going, Mrs. Piñeiro, I really tell you. See if you can explain. Because I don't know if what you want is for oral and argumentative activities outside school hours, like something complementary, or you want them to be inside the curriculum. Because, of course, if you want to be inside curriculum planning, you're telling Mr. Counsellor that you don't like your Bachelor's and ESO's curriculum project, because it turns out that the project has already been introduced, that this is not within the project and that the project has already been at the Galicia School Council. So you didn't have time to tell the Counsellor that your group wanted there to be oratory matters in ESO and bachelor's matters? So, do you come here to tell Mr. Counselor what you want? Don't you guys talk any other way? It's just, really, I don't understand if what you want is that. If what you want is to be included in that decree, Mrs. Piñeiro, they could have been included before, because it turns out that this is already starting to work. And as you know perfectly, both the Counsellor and yourself, the draft ESO and Bacharelato decree was rejected by the Galicia School Council; 6 amendments to all sectors, of parents and mothers, of the unions, of the university, all against this decree, because all – and of course, the Socialist Party too – are against LOMCE, all against it. Again, Mrs Piñeiro, once again, it is shown that the PP is alone, absolutely alone, in its educational policies and in the defense of LOMCE, an absolute loneliness. If you really want to help educate this country, Mrs. Piñeiro, accept our amendment. I accept the increase in education budgets, which have been cut into 400 million, nothing more and nothing less, since you are. It accepts the increase in GDP growth because it shows the importance of education for equal opportunities and for the future of this country. And you admit that in the next course, the 1,225 teachers who, according to the official version, are probably more...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u282	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u283	...–end–, but as the former Counsellor said, they disappeared from the educational system. Then he will show that he wants to improve the education of this country. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u284	Thank you, Mrs. Burgo. Joint Parliamentary Group. Mrs. Churches.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u285	Good afternoon. Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, they do not specify in the text of this initiative which language they want to achieve in speaking terms. In English, to the image and similarity of his ideologist Aznar, who lectures in Shakespeare's language and even away with his feet above the table with high international leaders? Or also the former mayor of Madrid – she former mayor – in her brilliant spanglish speech presenting Madrid's candidacy as the headquarters of the Olympic Games? Or do you refer to Spanish, that "very Spanish Spanish" of what I assumed the other day on a rally with his charismatic and triumphant leader Mariano Rajoy? Because I suppose – and I suppose well – that it will not be in English, a language that Wert and Galician Union marches to the limits of institutional abuse towards a minority language. This law will guarantee the right to choose education in the language itself if it was Spanish, and will not guarantee the same right if it is another official language. The revalid will evaluate language competition only in Spanish. It is an anti-democratic law that allows the director to be designated and cancels the action of the School Council; it is segregating, because it anticipates training itineraries towards vocational training; and in the programmes for improving the learning and performance of second and third ESO students will be grouped with difficulties and will receive devalued content. I suppose these contents will be applied to the nephew of Bourbon, who is a very poor student, to Froilán. An anti-constitutional law that allows sex segregation in certain centres. A law that relegates the national language to the specialization block, which means it will have a reduced time and will not be evaluable in state tests. A law at the service of the markets. Market, competitiveness, result, economic performance are money of abundant presence in the text. That literally says, "Education is the engine that promotes the competitiveness of the economy and the level of prosperity of a country." The application of this law, gentlemen, will endanger all those areas of knowledge not present in the OECD ranking, such as history, philosophy, literature, music, plastic arts or physical education. Just like all those learnings that are so difficult to assess in a standardized test like education for peace, environmental education, citizenship education. Seriously, ladies and gentlemen, I'm setting up the public centers that are in a dire situation and leaving oratory blooms. I do not support the initiative. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u286	Thank you, Mrs Iglesias. Parliamentary Group of the Left Galician Alternative. Mr. Vázquez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u287	All right, let's go. Good afternoon, everyone. Well, the reality is that rhetorical discipline was born in ancient Greece around the year 485 before Christ, when tyrants Iron and Hero expropriated the lands of the peasants to hand them over to the members of their personal army. They were, therefore, swindled people and people suffocated by the tyrants who suffered the power and oppression of their leaders. With the arrival of Greek democracy, and with the overthrow of tyrants, many of these expropriated peasants claimed the return of their lands through prices, and there the use of rhetoric was a fundamental element for, precisely, bringing their causes forward. Therefore, rhetoric began as a fundamental weapon of legal language and then extended, through the academies, to the rest of the disciplines. The Rector was the master of rhetoric and therefore basically cultivated dialectics, controversy, critical capacity, debate, discussion... those are the tools of rhetoric and oratory. All these are the tools that fall down on the ground through the approval of LOMCE where it is established, is driven, an absolutely uniform, acrytic learning and, of course, impoverishing what it is, of course, what we consider a progressive learning towards a more advanced society. That's why we don't understand this initiative being brought here, it looks more like the usual floral games of this government. Even more recently, he presented the new curricula of secondary and graduate education – as was said here – that were also rejected in the plenary session of the School Council in Galicia – where not only the teachers' representatives are represented, but also the anpas, the University, where the set of the educational community is represented. And it was rejected, among other things, because the contents of these curricula, of course, represented not a step forward but a whole setback. Curriculums remember that they contain objectives, contents, capabilities, evaluation criteria, etc.; but they didn't count those curricula presented with a specific section to improve and boost rhetoric. So we don't understand why he's here now if he comes. If they count these curricula with key competences, and one of those key competences is the strengthening of the entrepreneurial spirit, then there's no problem. If we conjugate these two variables – fostering the entrepreneurial spirit and impulse of rhetoric – it gives me the impression that this Government wants to convert the student from Greek into an encyclopaedia salesman. Because the reality is that, on the path that we are going – possessed by the spirit of competitiveness – we do not understand, of course, where we want to walk. I would like to recall that the skills employed in the field of education were first promoted by the U.S. Government Labour Secretariat in 1992, in a document called What Work Wants From Schools. From that point on, he was also employed by the European Council in 1997 and, of course, all liberal governments took on the new language of education, which is the word "competence". And that's the reality we're in, because the truth is that, from time to time, at least in contemporary pedagogy, the two issues of expression and understanding have always been worked out, both oral expression and understanding, as well as written expression and understanding. So we don't understand what's new in order to improve the work of the oratory. This initiative, of course, seems to us to be a waste of time. In addition, if we add an element that is common to all proposals of this kind of the Greek Government: it is presented as a declaration of intentions, no mechanisms are established, no methodology is specified to develop that declaration of intentions. And, therefore, speaking of oratory, speaking of dialectics, seems to us a mere exercise of neo-linguage. Because you, when you talk about citizenship, are actually directed exactly to consumers; when you talk about people refer to them as selling themselves – which is the word they use when talking about entrepreneurs – which is ultimately self-employment. And finally, preparing – or not – the student from Greece to self-exploit, which is the end of your conception of the education system. We are not going to support this initiative for empty content and, of course, because it does not seem to us to contribute anything to our education system. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u288	Thank you, Mr. Vázquez. Author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Piñeiro.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u289	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Where are you from? Apples bring it. How much do you sell them? Coloraditas. Mr. Pombo and Mrs. Burgo, on the amendments, first of all, to tell you that, when I saw your amendments, I was certainly tempted to call the services of the House and think that they were wrong and that they were not the amendments that corresponded to our initiative. Because of speaking, language competences of oral expression in the education system in Galicia nothing at all. So I was really tempted, but then I realized it was true. Mr. Pombo, I have heard you say on many occasions that you ask for your own educational model, and claim that Galicia defends the interests of your public education. And then they don't want to support the implementation of singular measures such as the inclusion of chess and oratory in the Welsh educational system. He doesn't want to join the new educational-pedagogical trends that make only the Greek education system a vanguard model, there you. Anyway, your opinion of the oratory we haven't met yet. As for Mrs Burgo, I understand on Sunday that she voted to elect mayors everywhere, and it wasn't a referendum on whether or not to include the oratory in the Greek education system. But, well, if you want to talk about Sunday, tell him that, if you're in line with the third political force in Ferrol, La Coruña, Santiago, Ourense and Pontevedra, because you are still presuming socialists, Mrs Burgo. We in the People's Party have already done self-criticism; you are still triumphant and happy to be the third political force. [[Interruptions.]] [[Murmurs.]] Mrs. Sueiro, I think if you had arrived when I started my exhibition...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u290	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u291	I tell you, Mrs. Sueiro – to see if you can listen to me now – that, if you had arrived when I started my exhibition, at best you would eventually come to vote in favour of this initiative, but how it was incorporated in the end, because it is very easy to talk without knowing what is being said. [[Murmurs.]] You also said here today that the People's Party rejects the whole of the initiative presents the opposition even though this results in the well-being of the Greeks and the Greeks. Look, in addition, we often argue each of our positions in each initiative. You guys here today, all of you, have made a real fit of waitresses not to vote for something so relevant. You've been looking for Aznar, the mayor of Madrid, the drunks, Froilán... by the way, have you already done the diagnostic evaluation? Because, well, it's also a little judgment on top of it, isn't it?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u292	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u293	As for the AGE just tell you, Mr. Vázquez, that you are closer to the sophists who despised rhetoric than the great teachers of the academy. Honestly, I hope they reflect on their position because they've even...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u294	Finish, please. Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u295	I'm done, always and when they leave me, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u296	Quiet, please and stop now.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u297	I'm telling all of you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u298	Quiet, please, Mrs. Adam, see if you can finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u299	Thank you very much, President. I'll tell you what you have until tomorrow to think about, to think about it, because, since we're not going to vote today, you still have a night to consult with your pillow. And I really hope that for the sake of our students...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u300	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u301	...we can vote this unanimously. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u302	Thank you, Mrs. Piñeiro. As has been reported, we then refer to the Joint Parliamentary Group. Interpellation of Da Carmen Iglesias Sueiro, G.P. Mixto, on the policy of natural parks in Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u303	To formulate the interpellation has the floor to Mrs Iglesias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u304	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, Counselor. Galicia has several natural parks, but none of them are in Lugo province, despite the fact that Coruel is the largest natural space in Galicia, the one with the greatest diversity and geodiversity and what counts with a unique cultural and landscape heritage. The lying prayer that sustains most of the greenhouse is of global interest. All its natural products are of exceptional quality: meat, chestnuts, honey, fruit. However, The Courel is depopulating and, without people, the architectural heritage, its medieval villages, its infrastructures, its way of life – which has configured a singular speech – the human interaction itself – which has formed a voluptuous landscape – is in danger of disappearing. This, despite the fact that new people show their interest in living in the Courel. But when it comes to truth, their purposes are only frustrated by the lack of support from the administrations. Also because of the lack of support for basic services that are non-deficit and for the abandonment of rural areas. The situation in the Courel is extreme and alarming. The mayor of his party, of the Popular Party, of Folgoso do Courel, has just denounced the dramatic demographic situation of the Courel before the national convention of the People's Party last January 23 of the current year; the situation that also denounces the Monfortino director Manuel Valcarcel in his documentary "Terra", a documentary that takes as a life year of a child nothing in Froxán in November of 2012 – it is very nice the documentary, I have already seen it, it is too – to show the changes that occur during that period and also to show the demographic decline and environmental degradation that is suffering this magical land and its people. On 25 April 2013, a non-legislative proposal was adopted in this Parliament to create an Economic Valuation Plan for the Courel based on ecological and agrarian sustainability; today, nothing is known of this plan after two years since the adoption of the initiative. And I warn you that The Courel is being condemned to have no future, to have no future!, despite being one of the greatest potential beauty and singularity of the Iberian Peninsula, and that it has various protection figures but that, far from palliating its deterioration, they contribute to increasing it by restricting traditional actions and works that, on the contrary, should instead of being restricted, be protected to preserve the natural and cultural heritage. Thus, the recently approved Nature Network Director Plan divided The Courel into three areas according to the level of protection, considering at the highest level the three best gain villages and their territories – Teixeira, Noceda and Vila – by applying the maximum restrictions on all farms when Europe only asks for protection in a perfectly localizable microparcels, so these types of decisions aggravate the discontent of the neighbors with the current protection figures and the lack of rigour in their elaboration. However, for the natural park declaration it is necessary to prepare documentation, with a natural resource management plan (PORN), also a master plan for use and management, which must count – these should indeed count – inevitably with the participation of neighbours, in addition to technicians, scientists, and administrations. With this, the identification and location of priority habitats and species would be linked to specific locations and locations, discarding absurd generic limitations such as those currently operating. Therefore, the natural park declaration would not only increase the generic restrictions of the Natura Network for neighbors, but would be more beneficial to concrete ones and adjust them to perfectly delimited territories containing small priority habitats. That's why it can't be claimed that there is a strong neighboring opposition – no, no... – to which The Courel is declared a natural park, when the area is already experiencing priority habitat restrictions in an extensive and unreasonably rational way, and made behind its inhabitants. This Parliament has already acknowledged the great impact it had, for the promotion of the Courel, of the declaration of the natural park. And I think – this honourable Member and the associations I represent – that it will contribute to the economic regeneration of this famous area of Galicia, of the interior Galicia, and to the improvement of the situation of the lack of expectations that are depleting it, allowing – this declaration of natural park – positive discrimination in the budgets of the administrations and the provision of basic services for the neighbours. Because, Counselor, The Courel is in a state of tragedy; it is dramatic how the Courel is. It's loathsome, there's no night doctors, there's no evening attendance, the women and men who grow old at the Courel, if they're alone, they can't be in a center that's close to their habitat, their neighbors, their home, where they've lived forever. There is the land of the Courel, the Courel saw, hourd and abandoned by mines that began and left afterwards. It's a shame to see that, as the mountains are completely full of holes and all destroyed. And for what, for what? Bread for today and hungry for tomorrow. In 2008, he closed a mine near Quiroga – part of the Courel that gives Quiroga – and hundreds of workers were fired. What was it with those workers? Do you know the neighbors, Counselor, that the slate produces silicosis? You know the danger? Is there anything that contemplates the protection of these workers in a special way, when they contract the disease in the best of their lives – most of their cases –? We have to do a job at the Courel, a government task to save this place, to empower people there to live, to keep their houses, to get new people to go; to help entrepreneurs in restoration, to form a natural park, to create a natural park to create jobs to protect cultural heritage and natural heritage. If you love Galicia, as they say you love her, you have to love the Courel saw, because it's the place, I think, most beautiful of the interior. I beg you to comply with the demands of the collectives and the population of that greenhouse that I am currently representing. So, I'd like you to answer the following questions: what does the board do about the socio-economic situation of the Courel saw?, considering that there are fewer people there – as long as the old people go out, until the old people go out... – what measures are you developing this United Nations government to improve the socio-economic conditions of the Courel saw?; e, how does Joina value the possibility of being declared The Courel natural park? Thank you very much for your attention. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u305	Thank you, Mrs Iglesias. The Environmental, Territorial and Infrastructure Adviser has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u306	Thank you, President. Mrs. Carmen Iglesias, of course in the Greek Government, we fully coincided with the importance of the Courel saw – and apart from the fact that I personally know the Courel saw – a space of great value, great beauty, great natural and ecological value; it occupies more than 40,000 hectares in the Councils of Folgoso do Courel, Quiroga and Pedraphyta; there are 65 – more than 65– species considered keys to Galician biodiversity and geodiversity, living the practice of all continental vegetable species, and a space – as you said – which is a witness to a great cultural heritage. A landscaping, cultural and architectural wealth that prompted the declaration of protected space. The Courel is included in the Natura 2000 Network as a special conservation area, and declared, in addition, a special protection zone of natural values. And let me point out that the measures proposed by the Network Natura Director Plan have been developed in collaboration with scientific groups at the university. Your Honor, we share your view that the Courel faces great challenges to ensure its proper development. But, in order for you to have all the information, let me highlight your concern and, of course, the actions that the Government of Greece is doing to promote rural development and to increase the well-being of the citizens of these towns and villages of the interior of Galicia – which I think I have to say, with the exhibition that I will make, that they are clear and concrete –. Our bet on Courel, and on improving the socio-economic conditions of his people, aren't just words, because there's one fact: if there's investments, what's the ultimate objective? Well, give your people greater opportunities and make the protection of this barrier unmatched with economic development and, of course, tourist in this area. Investments such as those carried out in road infrastructure – it is essential to reversing the territory and priority to give more opportunities to the neighbors of the area –; actions carried out on the road LU-651 – which, as you know, goes from Quiroga to Seoul of the Courel –, made, of course, by taking special environmental protection measures; road conservation tasks on a regular basis; interventions, which must also be added, from the Rural Middle Council, of improved access programs of municipal ownership roads; agricultural infrastructures, also improvements of agricultural infrastructures; important aids derived from the Leader projects to make the Courel a real protagonist in its progress. But not only are we destined for the improvement of infrastructure, but also for services and equipment, because the citizens of these towns and villages – as you say – of course have the right to improve the proper services. There are clear examples of improvements in waste water supply, sanitation and purification systems – Courel, Quiroga and Pedraphyta –: EUR 1.5 million achieved; also measures aimed at increasing living standards and well-being, improving the competitiveness of livestock and agricultural holdings, economic promotion, commercial infrastructure, telecommunications infrastructures such as broadband and sports infrastructures. In addition, it is known that the German Government has made the goal of improving the living conditions of rural housing, promoting the recovery and conservation of the building. Of course, I am betting on an impulse to rehabilitation, the policy that in recent years has led to the rehabilitation of 63,000 rural homes throughout Galicia, a housing policy in which rehabilitation with the new RehaVita Plan, which has measures for the rehabilitation of housing for the next five years, will continue to be key. A housing effort that, in the particular case of the Courel, was intended for this line of action and provided – I must say – an improvement in the homes of these three municipalities: Folgoso do Courel, Quiroga and Pedraphyta. We must also remember that we have contributed indirectly to the improvement of the socio-economic situation in this area by promoting placements in value of integral elements of its cultural heritage: works such as the chapel of San Juan, Church of San Estevo de Lineres, placements in value of public spaces that I visited, Lines and Fonfría. And we also have a decisive stake in the preservation and conservation of natural space, this space of course unique. On the one hand, management and forest development and also contribution from the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and the Environment, which has made important investments in these natural spaces –Ancares, Courel –, a special area of protection of natural values, special conservation zone; restoration of Courel habitats, public-use equipment and improvement of habitat and infrastructure. Together with this are also the help of the Galician Union to the Natura Network – because we are in an area of the Natura Network – in the specific case of the Euro 630,000 Coruel in the period 2010-2015, and for the improvement of the landscape, improves environmental conditions and also recovery of species. You know, in addition, that in 2012 we declare Quiroga's geological preaching as a natural monument. He served as a tourist revolver and also focused on his position in value in this saw. We've also just done the mirror improvement. As you can see, these are examples of a set of actions that, of course, are positive and positive discrimination that the Union has set in motion to dynamize the social and economic life of its neighbours. But also a set of investments aimed at preventing the deterioration of natural resources and achieving greater protection and conservation of the habitats and ecosystems of this greenhouse. Of course, I am fully aware that achieving a sustainable, harmonic growth, fixing population in rural areas, avoiding depopulation and creating wealth and employment so that the neighborhoods in the area have prospects for the future, passes, necessarily, by a perfect balance between the use of natural resources and the conservation of the environment. That's our bet; I certainly don't understand a flourishing Galicia without a living rural, that's our bet. And this bet reflects the programming of the performances. We have to plan and schedule performances and also go through a new drafting of a land law that has two basic pillars, of course, that are the protection of the landscape and the impulse of our rural society, and so I have to say. And also landscape atlases, landscape atlases that we're designing to design the main planning tools on this subject that help to enhance our territory. Of course, our territory is a treasure to be valued and preserved in Galicia. Your Honor, the protected spaces, in relation to the protected spaces the policy of this government is based on responsible management; responsible management that seeks participation and maximum involvement of the population living in that territory, but also responds to a clear objective: to maintain the state of conservation of habitats and species that have provided for the declaration of protected space. A responsible management that, therefore, makes the development of activity compatible with the conservation of the natural and landscaped values of space to protect. The Courel saw already has maximum protection, there is no legal provision that gives more guarantees of conservation to the declared park spaces, in front of the other protected spaces of the Greek Network, as is the case. Natural parks are, of course, of great beauty by their landscapes, representative ecosystems, uniqueness of their flora and fauna, geological diversity and possess ecological, aesthetic, educational and scientific values that deserve preferential attention. But the formation of a natural park network cannot meet subjective or personal preference criteria, nor can it meet the consideration of revitalization in an area from a socio-economic point of view. Therefore, the debate on the Courel declaration as a natural park must be addressed with close dialogue with the local population and at the right time, following objective criteria. The design of the Natural Parks Network must be rejected by the interest and need to preserve and protect spaces that meet three premises, three fundamental criteria: singularity, representativeness and exceptionality – and without losing sight of, of course, the global vision. In the German Government we have an obligation to act – of course – in spaces, if spaces meet these conditions to be declared, but taking into account integrative planning, a joint vision, never from local and punctual interests and perspectives. Your Honor, at Junta we are convinced that, in order to design a network of natural parks representing and characteristic of our natural and landscaped values, this must be the next path: a coordinated, unified, inclusive and consensus planning, and with a vision, of course, of country. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u307	Thank you, Counselor. Round of parliamentary groups. Parliamentary Group of the Galician Nationalist Block, Mrs Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u308	Ladies and gentlemen. Counsellor, now listening to your intervention on this matter, I have to tell you that you made me go to a more global reflection. And I believe that at this time when so many people are going through it so badly, that we are seeing the social and political situation that exists in our country, the politics and those responsible, in this case, of the Council – and you are part of the Greek Government – would need a little more rigour, a little more realism and not just come here to give us a succession of empty phrases and slogans that then have nothing to do with reality. You say you know The Courel. Your speech tells us that you don't know what's going on in this country. He's got a completely wrong diagnosis and they're unable to say a single thing that you're going to do in relation to the situation that O Courel has. That is not just a matter of the Courel, because today The Courel, in any case, is a symbol of the failure not only of this government, that is, of the failure of how a policy was set up here in defence, a rural policy and a conservation policy. Because what is clear is that what happens at the Courel is what happens in a very important part of the country, where the forms of life were annihilated and therefore the population was expelled from there. There was no real modernization or support for the population that existed there, and what was promoted was the depopulation of rural areas. This is the result of a policy of the European Union, a policy of the Spanish State, which, blindly, supported the governments of the People's Party in Galicia's Union. So we're talking about a very serious issue that has to do with a very important part of the country – it could be The Courel but there could be many other areas – where the population is disappearing and there is no alternative. We have argued on many occasions that rural policies should take advantage of to fix the population, to do so in addition to a view of the sustainable development of these areas, and at the same time that nature conservation policies also had to be active in the development of these places. But what has she done to the Galician Union for these years? He's managed so badly for nature conservation policies that it really caused the opposite effect. And they're not preserving habitats better, they're not being developed or able to generate a different dynamic. Go and visit the areas that are declared as natural park or as Nature Network and you'll see that the only cause was a frontal rejection of the population of that kind of figure. But not because people are against keeping places, but because you're the only one doing it is preventing the development even of activities that could be done and they're not helping those people that are left in those places. If you want, another day we can talk, for example, about the disaster that you cause in the Eume Falls, how they are actually breaking the agreements and resolutions of this Parliament, or we could go see how they declare areas of the Natura Network and do nothing more; they make a statement and then, what, to the people who work there they don't let anything be done at all. Oh, yes: now comes a fishhouse, comes a great multinational and in these declared areas Nature Network there is no kind of protection. We are in favour of the conservation policies of nature and we believe that there are spaces like The Courel that would deserve to be a natural park, because they meet all the conditions. We also believe that politics must do it differently, and that we must start right behind the scenes. We have to start by putting in place means, resources, actually implementing policies that will have to develop these areas and that conservation is an opportunity for economic development – compared to other models of cantors that are, we believe, absolutely the opposite of what should be done at this time – and, once all this process of participation is done and all that process of involvement of the local population, then officially declare it. Because we believe that when people are faced with the conservation policies of nature – as it causes what the Government of Galician Union does – the opposite effect is just achieved. So today we were expecting something more than to be told that everything is all right, that the country is restored, that everything is perfect and that there is no problem. Because if you go to Courel, you'll see that there's barely any people left, and that's a fundamental problem for this country. At the Courel, but also in other mountain areas and in a very important part of our rural area, which is being depopulated because the alternatives to the people are ending up there. And because we see that, where you declare nature parks or Nature Networks, then you don't accompany this to a real policy of investment or aid, Madam Counsellor. And I don't care if you say it's not with your head, because you know, in many cases, you can't even go to these natural parks because you're in compliance with all your promises and you know the problems of management. So we are encouraged to do a real policy to support the conservation of nature and that, in the case of this type of declarations, we start by doing the opposite: firstly, by involving the local population; secondly, by putting real economic development measures in those areas, by favoring a participatory process that ends and culminates with the declaration of natural parks. And not as you have done so far, that the only thing you've done was to declare natural parks on paper, but then they haven't really done anything real so that in those parks or, in many cases, if you improve the state of conservation in those areas – when you want to go visit many of the natural parks and you'll see the problems that exist because there's no strategy in that sense –. Secondly, there are real means for creating jobs, for alternatives from the area of conservation and for involving local populations and, once this is done, for putting themselves into the official statement. Because if you don't do it like that, you'll continue to fear in the same policy that, in the end, instead of helping to preserve and preserve nature, it's going right in the opposite direction. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u309	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Parliamentary Group of the Alternative Left Gallega, Mr Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u310	Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Counselor. The Courel is not an isolated case of the Italian countryside, it is more a sample of how our country is, and the country's rural model is not what you say or what you say here – which is a accumulation of good intentions without any sustenance, without any rigor. The rural model of the People's Party is what the data show: when we're in 2015, when we've spent over 30 years in the People's Party's government, we've taken nearly 7 of Government Feijóo at this last step, you can come here and talk about future plans, you can talk about future intentions, but you have to judge them for the data that shows us an abandoned, aged rural, and what you're a source of natural resources for big businesses. Its rural model, Counsellor, is empty, concentrate the population on the Atlantic axis, on urban areas, filled with consumers, cheap labour; empty the rural so that large companies can also do business with their productive model – a productive model that, by force, empty the rural model, Counsellor lady, by force –; low-creating forest model, third-world forest model, low-value creator; dairy sector condemned to eternal conversion, reduction of agricultural holdings. What are you talking about improving the competitiveness of agricultural holdings, Counsellor? Do you know at what pace we are losing agricultural holdings in rural areas, Counsellor? Do you know at what pace we are losing landowners, rural youth, Counsellor? What are you talking about? I'm improving competitiveness. What's that? What does that translate? In less and less exploitation, Madam Counsellor, because their model, so they bet, that of competitiveness, is to reduce agricultural exploitation. Participation, you were talking about participation. The participation of the Greeks and the Greeks in the Rural Development Program, Counsellor? Do you know that a rural development programme has been sent to Europe without participation from rural groups? Do you know? Do you know that even the European Commission's principle of partnership has been breached? Are you talking about Leader and all they did was reduce budgets? Are you talking about natural parks and the only thing they did was reduce budgets – 85% since Mr Feijóo's rule? Do you know that there are young people who are going to the villages of the Courel, and who rehabilitate a house, and who can't walk down the road to their house because the houses are demolished and have been torn down four years on the road? And that the mayors of the People's Party are the only ones who go in the elections to vote for the houses? Do you know that? [[Murmurs.]] Like not, like not? That's the reality of the people who want to go to the Courel. And do you know the reality of the people who want to go to the Courel? That you have to go to another autonomous community to take your children to school, because of course, because it doesn't cost you having a school in Courel, of course. And so we want to reverse the trend towards the abandonment of rural areas: taking out schools, taking out doctors, taking out post offices... so it's going to be reversed. Don't be deceived and say that the People's Party model is that of territorial balance! I said nothing! The reality is that the People's Party model is that of territorial imbalance, and there's the data. You say, "No, this is happening all over Europe, this is happening all over Europe." It's not happening all over Europe. Look at the policies of fixing the mountain population in Austria and you'll see what different policies can be. Look at the policies that David Rodríguez does in the Town Hall of Manzaneda and look at the results: they were going to close a school because they had no kids and now they're increasing their enrolment, they're increasing their employment as no other municipality in the province of Ourense. That's why, of course, 60 percent of the votes, that doesn't go through the houses asking for the vote, that wins the votes because it does politics, because it's eager for rural people to have a future, and that's the reflection that there can be other policies in rural areas; that's right, with few means and, in addition, against their policies and against the practices of the People's Party that prioritize the customer policy of their councils, you understand? Don't come here talking, taking out Wikipedia, talking about natural parks. You have to talk to what they've done in these years of government and don't come here and say, "No, for us, the natural parks." For you, the natural parks defeat the budgets they make and the Nature Network Director Plan, which is a plan to deprotect the Natura Network. You guys in 2011 had to expand the protected space and they didn't extend it, they didn't justify the new enlargement. You put yourself in the protection areas, even if they're the most protected ones. Ladies and gentlemen, the problem is not protection, the problem is that they don't want these policies to work and they put the possibility of creating more mining exploits within the Natura Network. You've put the possibility of re-qualifying within the protection areas of the Natura Network to build. For you natural parks, environmental policies – as much as they say – are an embarrassment because for you economic development is that a Canadian company is coming to extract gold in eight years. You don't believe in that, you vote in the eucalyptus, in the mining of gold, in extractive mining without developing the products in this country, you believe in withdrawing services because you think they're not profitable, you withdraw public transport because you think it's not profitable and they aggravate the pernicious circle that causes that. So we're going to keep trying to remind the People's Party that it's been ruling for many years and that it hasn't arrived yesterday, even if it's preaching in the desert. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u311	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Burgo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u312	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good afternoon again. Counsellor, the truth is that you are – and you know it – not only out of reality, not only do you know The Courel but you do not have – and you have just shown it here – a policy on the rural environment. Look, Counsellor, what can't be a manager, a government to read to us here the statement of reasons of the Nature Conservation Act 9/2001 of Galicia to answer an inquiry. You don't know because it was your advisor who wrote that, but you have to know, Counselor, that here as an explanation of your policies read a statement of reasons for a law. Of course, logically, then law enforcement doesn't. That's all your knowledge about the rural environment. Because, Counsellor, you have done nothing about the rural environment, the Courel or the inner areas, and not the provinces of Coruña and Pontevedra, but of course the part that I know best from the inside. They haven't even made it possible for us to have a fundamental and very important problem of depopulation, and I'm going to tell you, Counsellor – because you have already shown that you don't know them today – which are the demographics of the Courel area, taking Folgoso do Courel, Quiroga, Ribas de Sil, but Folgoso do Coruel. You have to know, Counsellor, that the policies for setting population and support for the rural environment – in this case of the mountain – of Mr Feijóo's Government, which have brought about a fall of 10.30% of the population from 2009 to 2014, is the practical resolution of your population fixation policies, a fall of over 10%. But besides, Counsellor, I hope that you will carry out this policy of exposition of reasons for a law knows that the density of the population in Lugo province, which is already very low, is 34.7% in 2014, in Folgoso do Courel is 5.9. The average age in the Folgoso do Courel is 58.3 years old. The percentage of population under 20 years old, Madam Counsellor, is in the Folgoso do Coruel of 4.7, instead the population of 65 years old or older is 43.5. Counsellor, what do you plan to do with this demographic structure? What policy, already of emergency, will be carried out to solve this serious problem in the rural environment as a whole, but so absolutely serious in the mountain areas and in this case of Folgoso do Courel? What they're doing is doing absolutely nothing, rural infrastructure is disappearing. I take advantage of this intervention, in addition, to continue to request and claim the settlement of the road from Folgoso to Seoule, which is in a deplorable state, which you committed in 2010 and which has not done anything yet. Those are probably the infrastructures you've named before. This road is absolutely necessary for the two most important population nuclei of Folgoso do Courel remains unresolved, that is its policy of fixing the population. But the same can be said of the educational infrastructure: schools are disappearing in rural areas and especially in the mountains. Since 2009, there has been a constant suppression of school units in the mountains, in virtually no mountain school is left to children's education units, and in all schools there is a lack of teachers. The Valator of the People – I remind you that you have forgotten this – because you know, I imagine perfectly, that the policy of driving the rural environment is a cross-cutting policy that not only depends on you but depends on the whole government. Well, it's true that all of you are suspending exactly the same thing. The People's Valedor stated in its 2013 report that the Education Council did not guarantee rural education. They made preschoolers disappear at home, for example. But besides, what about medical services? Health is also being imposed on the fact that in rural areas they have to have all the optional a minimum of 1,500 cartridges regardless of the dispersion of the population, the aging of the population; that is, there are neither good health services, education nor health services, nor social services. I hope you know – you don't know – that Folgoso do Courel doesn't have a senior residence, promised by the PP continuously and repetitive but not done. Look, Counsellor, the only way to put a stop to the population indentation in these areas is to have real investments, real investments. Because you, Counselor, the People's Party, only interested the Folgoso do Courel on one occasion: in 2009, when they stole the mayorate from the Socialists, when you pushed a motion of censure with a traffic jam bought by you and seized the mayorate from the Socialist Party to give it to the People's Party. [[Applause]] It was the only time they were interested and they knew where was Folgoso do Coruel, from there absolutely nothing. So nothing, so absolutely nothing that the Folgoso mayor of the Courel, of the People's Party, said at the convention of the People's Party this same year that it was necessary to pay attention to the problems of the Courel, which was being out of stock, that they could no longer endure, that it was an emergency situation. He told the PP mayor himself and he told them something else: that nothing would be accomplished if he didn't pay attention to the entrepreneurs' proposals, because if there's an undertaking, because if there are new people trying to start up new farms in small businesses around natural products, forests, honey, chestnuts, but they have no help of any kind. And the same mayor told you in January 2015, not so late. That's right, you guys after 2009 didn't step back to Courel's Folgoso. And what about the inclusion of the Ancares-Courel set in the Natura 2000 network? It's included in the Natura Network. Of course, this had to be of some use, but it's absolutely no use except to prevent the neighbors from wanting to be included in these protection measures. And it's no use at all because, Counselor, you set up a Natura 2000 Network Director Plan in 2012, which is absolutely useless, as our group told them perfectly through Mrs. Gallego's 2012 amendments. In these amendments we ask – and I do not have time to explain them all – to inform the neighbours of the European funds that bet on protected spaces and that they favor the fixing of the population, because they exist, they exist! But what's the matter? That you don't invest them, because you're not investing anything at all in the Natura Network and Mrs. Gallego's amendments we're asking you to invest at least 12% of the entire EAFRD funding for the Natura Network. They said no, they said absolutely no, and so at this point, the Nature Network's Master Plan only serves to have a partisan application so that you and the Government can tell some who can do what they want and others, as appropriate, that they can't do anything. And that's why this plan app was rejected...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u313	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u314	...by the neighbours of the Courel. Therefore, Counselor, less exposition of motives for the laws and more do because as they follow, no one will be left at all at the Courel. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u315	Thank you, Mrs. Burgo. People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Freire.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u316	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, gentlemen. The Popular Group agrees to highlight the importance of this unique natural space and also to highlight the value of its biodiversity and the ecosystems that converge on this territory. The protection figures applied are fruit precisely of this sensitivity, sensitivity to its richness, both landscape and architectural. But in addition to these protection figures, it was quite clear that many actions and investments aimed at improving the quality of life of their neighbours are the evidence of the improvements in road infrastructure and in the vertebration of the territory by the various consultants with competence in the field, of which many have already been reported by the advisor for a while, but they are also the resources dedicated to improving the services or equipment or strategic dynamisation projects for this territory. It has not been forgotten either the Autonomic Administration of initiatives geared towards the value of its cultural heritage. Measures aimed at improvement, rehabilitation and placement in the value of housing are also noteworthy; measures so necessary to contribute to the fixing of population in rural areas and, by extension, to the Courel saw and to the villages themselves found there. But, moreover, there are significant actions aimed at the conservation of this natural space, both in forest management and in fire prevention and forestry policies. Resources were also spared in the recovery of species and in the improvement of the landscape in various environmental actions. Ladies and gentlemen, it seems a contradiction that certain protection figures are questioned, and then others that are even more restrictive. It doesn't seem very logical to keep a speech questioning the existing ones because of the impact or the affection they may have for these owners and if they were to pose others that would of course have a greater condition. The advisor here reported many of the measures applied that clearly demonstrate the concern of the Greek Government for this distance and its people, seeking a harmonic balance between the protection of the environment and the settlement of population, and, above all, oriented also to the creation of economic activity in such a difficult and complex environment. A balance that also requires the participation of its population, its neighbours and, like not, those who visit this territory. Even so, the advisor explained perfectly the criteria followed to establish those protection criteria and reported a number of concrete measures and investments already materialized, as well as a number of initiatives to be implemented from here on. But, ladies and gentlemen, you know from the outset that the tendency to depopulation in rural areas does not depend solely on the actions of the Government of Greece, nor does it depend solely on who is present at this time, but this trend has been so for some time, and those who have had responsibilities in previous stages also have to bear in mind that they have not been able to reverse this trend. So we understand it's everyone's responsibility. Mr. Sánchez, I wanted to address you by telling us that you might have to pass that manual to which you refer on how municipal elections are won in rural without presenting applications by AGE, I'm sure it reports interesting experiences, which reports hundreds of cases based on that experience and sure that we've learned something new and new techniques. Nothing else, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u317	Thank you, Mr. Freire. [[Mr. Fajardo Recouso pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Mr. Fajardo, be quiet. Replica roll, Mrs Iglesias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u318	I understand they're nervous and they're upset and they're just talking about elections. Besides, they don't seem to listen, because when I did my first intervention I recognized that Courel has different protection figures, but it's very obvious that all these protection figures are not being able to stop Coruel from depopulation, because none of these protection figures are providing funding, they only provide restrictions. The potential impact of declaring Courel as a natural park is undeniable. Why? Because it would bring special economic measures to the enclaves of the area with subsidies and tax benefits for the development of the different productive and sustainable sectors, thus improving the quality of life of its inhabitants. Counsellor, Courel needs to recover services so that the inhabitants can live there: schools, night doctors, senior residences, good roads... the previous speakers told him. Why? What prevents you from declaring The Natural Park Courel? I assure you it's not the opposition of neighbors and neighbors, who have to swallow up a plan of protection against their will. I think more of it, and as the landscape remains, that there are interests of mining sectors, of the wood sector, of the energy and wind sector, activities that all have a huge impact on ecosystems and which, in my humble view, are those that influence, those that block the decision to declare the Courel natural park. Why? Because mining would restrict the same and even prohibit mining, both in research and in exploitation. You think, Counselor, that the entire Courel is plagued with mines, the whole area of Folgoso is plagued with mines, it is sown with mines. It is clear that the natural park would restrict and even prohibit mining, both research and exploitation activities. And besides, mining does not create work in the Courel – not the wind sector – for not talking about cases of silicosis that are covered with meseral pensions. Of course, it's not activities that conserve habitats but the opposite. The natural park declaration would make it essential to collaborate with the inhabitants since the development of the Rector Plan itself, making environmental conservation compatible with other types of forest, water and tourism uses, consensual and valued through their participation in the Parks Advisory Board. We are aware that there are mines already in operation at the Courel and there are abandoned canisters without restoration. Today there is a company with two canteens: one on the side of Quiroga, Piquisa, and a quarry running in the Campa. Piscards abandoned and not restored. Anyway, a disaster. You have no interest in the inhabitants of the Courel staying in their place, in their place, in their land. They want to be there, there's a lot of new people who want to start there. There's a rural return now that there's history as it is and there's a rural return of young people, families who want to go there and they can't, they can't because the infrastructures are bad, because there's no school for the child, because there's no doctor for the old man, because there's nothing, because they've completely abandoned The Courel. Think, the future won't forgive them for this action, because that's a jewel and it's your responsibility, Counselor, your responsibility and your government. They agree, they promote a natural park in the Courel to save The Courel, if it will not be completely depopulated and will be plagued with mines, canteens and wind farms. Why do you want to make that mess? Why don't the people who live there be taken into account? Now that they've lost the elections, you who talk about it so much, you recapitate about why they've lost them, because they don't listen to people, they don't listen, so we organize ourselves on civil platforms that are called tides. Organized citizenship, Counselor, I think, that the future will not forgive him.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u319	Thank you, Mrs Iglesias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u320	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u321	Closure round, Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u322	Thank you, President. Well, ladies and gentlemen, it seems surprising that we use the law but, of course, a serious government uses the laws, is based on the laws and abides by the laws. Of course we do, of course the laws are to do so. In the German Government, we believe that the most responsible at present is to advance the planning and management of the protected spaces that are already declared, in order to improve the administration and promotion of the values they host and also respond to the demand that offers the added value for the activities of the people who work there, in the territory, and develop their activity. That's why we're working very hard on planning these natural spaces. We were able to approve the Natura 2000 Network Director Plan in March 2014, thus fulfilling the Habitat Directive. Mrs. Churches, it's true, we approve the Master Plan Nature Network. This same year we approve the plan of the Valdovino lagoon and we are also finalizing the Plan of Conservation of Cathedrals, making it compatible with the promotion of tourism and, of course, the protection of this monument and the management of space to bring it into the local economy. We also worked, as they said here, on Eume's Fragrance Plan. It's an obligation and we have to do it, but we also want to do it and let it be an opportunity to protect this heritage, which is from all the Greeks, and above all so that the Deeds of the Soul are a source of new economic opportunities. [[Murmurs.]] In dialogue, of course, with the agents involved, with the producers, with the owners, with the municipalities to achieve a consensus document. Ladies and gentlemen, we're working very hard on planning to count on plans that count on their corresponding economic memory and doesn't mean that we're not going to address and start the process to complete the Natural Parks Network at the right moment, it's not closed at all. Our goal is to address this debate, but at the appropriate time and that moment, of course, has not arrived. If we want to manage these natural spaces properly, we can't turn our backs on the people who live by developing their activity around this park. That is why the declaration of natural parks must also be a result of the consensus – I am convinced that it has to be this way – of the involvement and participation of the local population. It must count on the support and momentum of the population of the area, of that territory and of those spaces, conjugating – as I said, as I will continue to say and how we defend – primary factors, maximum conservation of natural resources and diversity with traditional uses and development of activities, because they are economic, tourism, social and cultural opportunities. Here said Mr. Sánchez and you, Mrs. Iglesias, the theme of mining and wind farms. The new mining and wind farms aren't up-to-date in the Natura Network thanks to the Network Nature Master Plan, that's it, and it's totally true and, as I'm saying, it's not true what you said. Of course, the philosophy that I have just commented on conjugating maximum conservation and use and development of activities fully coincides with the one defended at the World Congress of Natural Parks, which was held and which we had the opportunity to sink on a CEIDA day a few weeks ago, a few days ago. It therefore completely coincides with the one defended at the World Parks Congress. It is a challenge that we must face together with the utmost responsibility. People who live or develop their activity in these places should not, as you also said, perceive it as a scenario of limitations but rather see it as a set of opportunities of great added value. I believe that this is the best roadmap – of course it is – to preserve and value Galicia's natural and landscaped wealth is compatible with economic, tourist and cultural opportunities. That's why today the Government of Galicia is pushing action – of course yes – in the Nature Network, in natural parks and in biosphere reserves so that the population perceives the added value these figures pose for our territory. For my part, nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-05-26-DSPG110.u323	Thank you, Counselor. We'll hold the session until tomorrow at ten in the morning.
