ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u1	They're taking their seats. Good morning. Let us resume the session with point six, of questions for the oral answer of the President of the Galician Union. He asked Mr. President of the Galician Council of Mr. José Luis Méndez Romeu of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the forecasts of the Government of Galicia to face the loss of rights of the citizens of Greece
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u2	You have the word, Mr. Méndez Romeo, to ask your question.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u3	Mr President, you probably get a lot of letters and, logically, your collaborators will read them. The members of this House have received them, too, but we have to read them and attend to them. I'm going to read you excerpts from two letters that are sufficiently representative of a very broad problem in our country. Write me Jesus Vidal, who lives in Culleredo and is 74 years old. Tell me, "Please present this in my name to Mr. Feijóo. I'm lying in bed and depending on my wife, who is 72 years old, even for my physiological needs. I don't have a pension, my wife has a pension of 780.90 euros. Please ask Mr Feijóo, what happens with the millions of euros they promised up to 2020 for social services, for people who have needs and if I don't enter those plans." And tell me this because this gentleman received a letter from Mrs. Labour and Wellness Counsellor that they recognize – after an application made in 2009 – in the year 2012 that he is entitled, of course, to the attention of the dependency. The problem is, we're in 2015 and Jesus didn't get any help. And even he says to me in his writing: I understand nothing in the photocopy that they send me. Mr. Feijó, neither did I. Because the photocopy you're sent is a writing that says yes, but it also says no; it's a writing that wakes up but has no content, it's a writing that deceives without any noise. But also, among other things, a woman from the south, Guadalupe, wrote to me about her mother, Trinidad, to whom she was also recognized in 2009 as grade 2 of dementia: "I left everything to be able to care for her because I couldn't leave her alone. We request the law for family caregivers. In 2012 he was changed, and he didn't get anything yet, and in 2012 they told him he had Alzheimer's. And besides, since he's got a chair fracture, he's in a wheelchair and everything has to be done, he's not autonomous. And now I'm told, five years later, that I'm filing a new request for help again. I've been taking care of her for five years without more income than my pension." And he adds sadly, "We always pay the most disadvantaged." This woman also has a letter that is a prodigy, an alarm of sophisticated cynicism by the Counselor. Mr. Feijó, there are 16,000 people like Guadalupe and Jesus. In addition to them, 7,000 people have died in these years with the right to a benefit and without having received it. What do you have to tell Guadalupe or Jesus that they have to die without any benefit and without any attention from his government?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u4	Thank you very much, Mr. Méndez Romeo. The President of the Board has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u5	Thank you very much, Madam President. Your Honor, if you like, those letters are certain that you will come to the end of the full but will pass by to listen, to read, see and study the situation of Jesus and Guadalupe. No doubt you and the House know that when we arrived at the Government in 2009, there were 14,000 people who charged the Dependency Act and there were 46,000 pending charges for the Dependency Act. I don't know if you refer to those 46,000 who have left without charge of the Dependency Act or those who still, because of a lack of budgetary capacity, continue to wait for the Dependency Act. What I'm telling you is that when you were in the government, 30% of the dependents were cared for and now up to 68.5%. As a result, there will be many Jesus and Guadalupe who, when you were in the Government, did not charge the Law of Dependency and today there are many who charge the Law of Dependency. It is true, Your Honor, that we are working for Galicia with 2,000 million euros less than you; 2,000 million euros less every year. And it's true that, in addition, we have to return to the Government of Spain, the 100 million euro a year, the money you spent without budgeting. Only if we didn't have to meet that obligation – EUR 100 million each year – could we fund 100 percent of the people who expect a dependency benefit. The problem is, we have to pay what you've left duty, and we've gone from 14,000 to 77,000 people we've been caring for in recent years. Your Honor, of course I am concerned about this situation; a situation, by the way, very similar throughout the state, because, as you know better than anyone else, there are no more cuts than leaving everything cut; that is, cuts in pensions, cuts in state budgets, cuts in the situation of the country's banks, cuts in the country's electricity situation. You left us a great cut – monumental – about to be cut down Spain's sovereignty through the ransom. As you will understand, what we're dealing with, with 2,000 million euros less than you are, is going from 30% of the people who charge the dependency they pay today to 68% of them. Thank you very much, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u6	Thank you very much. Mr. Méndez Romeo's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u7	Mr. President, you have these letters, you have them. But what you had to tell Guadalupe, Jesus, the other 7,000 who have already died and the 16,000 who are waiting for an answer is that the government's fault was six years ago in failing to respect your intelligence at least. Mr. Feijóo, answer your question because, look, Guadalupe, for example, went to the People's Valedor. Then the People's Valedor himself sent a letter to Mrs. Guadalupe. The writing was the same thing that had already been sent by his own advisor in those scandalous terms. Even so, the Valator took a gesture and sent a resolution to the Counsellor saying, "We'd have to pay this person a benefit," and the advisor told him that he didn't, and immediately the Valador filed it. Two million euros in Valador's institution just to crush the citizens? A high official who pays 100,000 euros to turn his back on citizens' demands? Of course, it's no wonder that you want to have all the independent institutions in precarious circumstances, because that's how docile servants lead them more quickly to lick their hands to those who pay them than to defend the interests of their citizens. That's what's happening: a manger where, with generous public stipends, the ones who direct them are at the back of the citizens' interests. [[Murmurs.]] But I'm going back to Guadalupe and I'm going back to Jesus, Mr. President. They've had six years of recognized right, recognized by their government, and they're systematically misleading us. You know enough that it is possible to make budget savings to address these most scandalous cases. What is not a rest of sensitivity, what is not a rest of compassion; it is enough to see his trajectory, Mr. Feijóo, that in six years he never had a minute to meet with people who suffer.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u8	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u9	What's going to happen to you is contact with the powerful, those who tell you the politics that you have to do to produce precisely this tremendous social divide.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u10	Thank you very much. Replica by the President of the Union.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u11	Thank you very much, Your Honor. I'm surprised that after putting people in institutions they refuse their own votes and their own support; you'll know why. First they vote for the Board of Auditors, and now they say it's not right; they vote for the people's Valedor institution, and now they say it's wrong. Don't worry, Your Honor, we'll have an opportunity to talk about these institutions immediately. Your Honor, what is worrying about all this is that you take the situation of two people to go back to lie, because people have a right; what you have no right is that you come to me here with cases that you have left unresolved, thousands and thousands and thousands. Your Honor, if you want to talk about the year 2009, there's no problem, because reality cannot be overshadowed. Your Honor, you can't deny, for example, that in the Coruña hospital, in emergencies, we have multiplied by three of the hospital's capabilities. You can't deny, Your Honor, that in a parish of Vigo, in Beade, we're doing a new hospital; you, yes, presented models, but they didn't do anything about the cure in Vigo. It cannot be denied, Your Honor, that the Greek students have the lowest university rates in Spain – when you rule, the highest –. It cannot be denied that there are 10,000 school lunch places in Galicia in public education. There are 85,000 boys and girls studying a third language in public education. You can't deny that we have the lowest school failure since there's records in Galicia. You can't deny, Your Honor, that when you ruled you destroyed 50,000 jobs in the last year and now we've created 22,000 jobs in the last year. Your Honor, you can't deny that when you were in the Government you had lowered the membership of Social Security in Galicia 50,000 people and now rose 12,000. All these kinds of questions if we explain them to Jesus and Guadalupe, I am convinced that they would be very interesting. It would be very interesting to have a talk with Jesus and Guadalupe about exactly what they did, what they left and how they left the situation of health, educational and social services in Galicia. It wouldn't be a problem, Your Honor. [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, we have created 7,000 public squares in social services – 7,000 –, we have maintained non-contributory pensions during the economic crisis, we are the Spanish community with the highest non-contributory pension – I say from Spain – because we have paid more than 200 euros. If Jesus had the right to a non-contributory pension, we would process it. You have right or no right, Mr. Méndez Romeo? Or are you going to question the laws of rights now? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u12	Go finish, President, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u13	Look, Your Honor, what there is no right is that after so long people are still being deceived. And there's no right for you to tell me, with 2,000 million euros less each year, that I have not only to do more than the Socialist Party – which is obvious – but to deny me that in Galicia today 68% of the dependents are charging, and with you, less than half. Thank you very much, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u14	Thank you very much. Ask Mr. President of the Galician Council of D. Francisco Jesus Jorquera Caselas, of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the correction of the language policy of the Italian Government
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u15	To put the question you have the floor Mr. Jorquera Caselas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u16	Thank you, Madam President. "You don't need to speak German to know that what you're doing with him is taking him away." That's what Alba, the Spanishman, the student of Vigo, said to attend the demonstration of We German! "The Greek is of all people, not only of those we speak of it; it is a heritage from all over the world, not only of Galicia. We cannot allow him to disappear," said Carlos of the Coruña. Because the Greek doesn't separate, Mr. Feijóo, it's the language that unites us, which identifies us as a people. Castelao has already said, "If we're still Greek, it's by work and grace of language." "That's why," said Marcos, a language activist, "who doesn't respect the language, despises us as a people." And you, Mr. Feijóo, will you continue to despise the people who have the honour of presiding? What does multilingualism consist of for you, actually imposing monolingualism in Spanish? Because that's what's happening, Mr. Feijóo. Over the past few years, the Greek has lost more than 300,000 speakers. The IGE survey confirms the continued loss of speakers, a loss that has increased since you are president. Seventy-five percent of children under the age of 15 never speak or almost never speak in English, and only one in four knows how to speak in Greek; children who speak in the English language and stop doing so when they go to school. This is the result of policies that treat Welsh as if it were a foreign language in the country itself, which deny the basic right to live normally in their own language, which come to the absurdity of subsidising public money education in ignorance, Mr. Feijóo, as will be done with the four families who requested private education in Spanish, subsidized with public money, in application of the LOMCE. Four families, Mr. Feijóo!, and you used them to invent the alleged imposition of the Greek in Galicia. The Greek is in a limited position. There is a social outcry that demands the end of their language policies; a cry that has also been added to the institutions that represent our culture. Mr. Feijóo, are you willing to listen or prefer to go into history as the president who did the most damage to our greatest collective work as a people, who did the most damage to the Greek language? So, Mr Feijóo, do you plan to rectify your language policy in view of the grave situation in the German language? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u17	Thank you very much, Mr. Jorquera. The President of the Board has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u18	Your Honor, allow me to read to you what they said not a few Greeks – all of them, of course, respectful – but most of the Greeks: "The very language of Galicia is Greek. The English and Spanish languages are officers in Galicia, and everyone has the right to know and use them. Galician public authorities will ensure the normal and official use of both languages, and will enhance the use of Welsh in every order of public, cultural and informational life, and will have the means to facilitate its knowledge. No one can be discriminated against because of the language." This is the statutory mandate that the Government is fulfilling, and this is exactly Article 5 of the Autonomy Statute, thanks to which I am President of the Union, and I will carry it out on a fee basis, as it could not be otherwise. I know you didn't agree with him, but I'm glad you now agree – I hope – with this Article 5 of the Galician Autonomy Statute. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, let's go over this; let's review the survey of the Board and the Galego Institute of Statistics, which, as you see, if we weren't concerned about this matter, we wouldn't do the survey. But we're interested in knowing reality. Yes, Your Honor, you didn't. Let me give you the data: The majority language of Galicia continues to be 51,5 %. Second. The trend shift in favour of Greek increases, those who know Greek, those who have the ability to speak Greek and those who have the ability to write in Greek. And the degree of knowledge of the language among the Greeks is the highest ever. Ladies and gentlemen, this is what the survey says. The English oral and written knowledge index, when you ruled, was 96.8%; now 97.5%; we've improved. Those who didn't know Greek with you were 3%; with us, 2%. And to write, with you they wrote Greek 81%; now 83.5%. Ladies and gentlemen, when you were in the Government you couldn't write almost 19% of the population; now, 16% of the population. That's what the survey says. We read the survey in its entirety, Your Honor. When asked to the Greeks, they have the perception that more or less Greek is used than before, 35% believe more; 43% believe that it is equal; and 21% believe less. I mean, only 2 out of 100 Welsh people think we use less Greek than before. Let's continue with the survey, Your Honor; let's continue with the survey. When you ruled, in 2008, compared to the year 2007, 12 points were lowered by young people who frequently used Greek...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u19	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u20	...12 points, 27 % to 15 %; now 2 points have been down. Your Honor, I'm worried, not because you know Greek, we know it, and we know it, and we know it, so I'm worried why we don't use Greek if we know it and we know it, and if we know it, we can write it. Nothing else and thank you very much, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u21	Thank you very much. Mr. Jorquera Caselas' reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u22	Mr. Feijóo, you have the rare ability to draw us always in your appearance in this House the world backwards. Look, there's a phrase that you often repeat: that love for Greek is not exclusive to anyone, and in that I give you the reason. Indeed, it's not unique to anyone, but there are different ways of loving, and some even antagonistic. And his more and more reminds me of the letter of a well-known tango: "I killed her because she was mine." Well, that's not how we understand the love of Greek. [[Applause]] Look, don't look into society to circumvent your responsibilities. You appeal to freedom, but in order for freedom to exist, there must be an end to the discrimination suffered by the Greek; for freedom there must be equality. And, what is the reality, Mr. Feijóo, despite the world in the reverse that you draw us? That teaching in English doesn't reach 20% in non-university education. If we talk about cities, it doesn't reach 4% in childhood education. That is his plurilingualism, Mr Feijóo. Fifty legal provisions protect the Spanish, and the few that existed to protect the Greek you cancelled them. Comply with the Linguistic Standardization Plan, if you want consensus, and repeal the Multilingual Decree. Look, Mr. Feijóo, the Greek is the mirror of Galicia. In the debate of the State of the nation I remembered a phrase from Castelao: "The domination of Galicia will never be effective while speaking a language other than Spanish." And that's the problem, Mr. Feijóo, the decadence of the Greek is a reflection of the political, social and economic decadence to which their policies lead our country. The retreat of the Greek goes from the hand of destruction of our productive tissue, from the hand of the demographic downturn of Galicia, from the ruin of the country to which their policies lead. That's why we want Greek so that Galicia can fully develop. We defend the Greek because defending the Greek is to defend the future of a people, to defend the future of a country. And, Mr. Feijóo, in that debate I also remembered a phrase from Nebraska – and I have already concluded, Madam President – "Always the language was a companion of the empire," and his problem is that he prefers to be a servant of the empire rather than a president of this country. Mr. Feijóo, give up serving Galician dome and castration, do not condemn the death of the Greek. If you really love this country, correct and end your language policies.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u23	Thank you very much, Mr. Jorquera. Replica by the President of the Union.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u24	Thank you, Your Honor, for the appointment of the tango in Spanish to discuss what I do with the Welshman. Of course, you have a feeling that sometimes you don't understand in the House, because to speak of tango and Spanish to speak of Greek... Look, I'm going to talk about what he says... yes, Your Honor, it's that tangos in English for now I haven't heard any. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I say I'll talk about what he says, not me, but the Royal Academy, about his posture. Look, Your Honor, we're a little tired of making two Galicians, those of the good Greeks and those of the bad Galicians, and that you give the meat of good Greek and bad Greek. Your Honor, if Galicia for the good Greeks were to be the only one who voted for the BNG, you would understand that the vast majority of Galicia would be lost. For I ask Galicia not to identify the language with nationalism; Your Honor, not to identify the language with nationalism, because it would be the worst that can happen to the language. [[Applause]] "The BNG with the tongue is like those mothers who want so much for their children to squeeze them to the mouth. We must defend the Greek more intelligently." [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Your Honor, I didn't say this, said the president of the Royal Academy of Galician Languages. You immediately called it "extreme Spanishist." Naturally, Your Honor, it's hard to understand, if you don't agree with the Language Academy. And draw attention, Your Honor, to continue to take any opportunity to divide, to break, to confront. Call attention that you're talking about someone who insults the language when you're boycotting the 2015 Gallege Letter Day celebration, which is a celebration that, in the field of autonomy that corresponds to the Royal Academy, decided to devote to a figure of Galician culture...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u25	Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u26	That's called politicization and partisanism in language, lordship, politicization and partisanism in language. [[Applause]] In any case, what is clear, Your Honor, is that today there are more Greeks who know Greek than when you rule, and there are more Greeks who can write in Greek than when you rule. If you now want, like me, to look and find why, knowing Greek more than ever, why knowing Greek more than ever, why knowing Greek more than ever and why knowing writing Greek more than ever, there are young people who use it less, that's what you're invited to, to propose and to wake up. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Your Honor, the Directorate-General for Linguistic Policy, together with the Royal Academy and other institutions, we are going to present a project to dynamize Greek in the social and economic fields. I'd like to count on you, that would be good. In any case, we will continue to fulfill our obligation. Our obligation to what? To let the English language be known in freedom, let the Greeks be able to speak our language, because to speak a language the first thing to do is to know it. In Galicia, 97% of people speak German...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u27	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u28	...and the vast majority of people can write English. So, Your Honor, we're going to continue working on new technologies, and we have a domain, for the first time in history, the.gal domain, and that's why we have two channels, one more radio and one more television only in Welsh, and that's why we approve a new toponymy, and that's why we have twice as many universities abroad, where...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u29	Please finish, president.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u30	...that's why we approve the Peace Andrade Law, and that's why we will make an agreement with the Camões Institute, to bring the Greek closer to the lusophone world. Your Honor...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u31	Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u32	...I am as Greek as you. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Ask Mr. President of the Galician Board of Da Yolanda Díaz Pérez, G.P. of the Alternative Galaga de Left, on the temporal horizon of the policy of austerity of the Government of Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u33	To put the question you have the word Mrs. Yolanda Díaz Pérez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u34	Good morning, President. Good morning, Mr. Feijó. I suppose you know today, February 11th; I suppose you will know – even teaching – that one day as today, the instances of Pi and Margall, were proclaimed the Republic. It's not a minor thing, surely, of republicanism, and even of civic values to combat their austerity policy. Mr. Feijóo, you always like to compare our country's macroeconomic data with the averages or state data. Well, I'm going to tell you that your austerity policy kills, and that you, with its fruit and its consequences, will actually turn it into a real social Atila for our country, and not because we say it, but because you're pointing it out, I insist, all the great indicators with which we close, in economic terms, the year 2014. Look, I'd like you to explain to us what you're doing wrong as president, because, look, in GDP data -- speaking of GDP is talking about the size of a country, something substantial; a GDP is decreasing, as you know, since you govern our country -- from the cycle, taking the average since Mr. Rajoy's government in the state and you in Galicia, the German GDP has decreased by -4.5%. The state average is in half, Mr Feijóo, exactly in half. You're doing something wrong, just when, in addition, you promise or compare with the state media. But it's not only GDP, Mr Feijóo, but also what it has to do with employment data. It is true that we fight the policies of the People's Party because they are bad and because they become slaves to the working class. But, look, he closed the year 2014 with a state average job creation of bad quality, bad in Spain, of 1.2%, but you closed the exercise in Galicia by destroying jobs, exactly the -0.8%. You are the champion of austerity, cuts and destruction of employment. I insist, while the state average, though poor, low-quality and low-wage and turning people into poor people, actually grew by 1.2%. But not only that, is that the average destruction of employment of this political cycle of the People's Party is located in Galicia at -10% and the average of the state at -7%. And finally, Mr. Feijóo, tell us why unemployment has grown in Galicia at a rate, since you rule, 35% and the state average is 21%. And also explain why he closes the 2014 exercise with a brutal fall in the industrial production index in our country that puts us in the worst or car in the queue just right of state policy. Mr. Feijóo, will you change your policies or will you continue to start to achieve more poverty, more unemployment and, without doubt, the only recipe you have for this situation...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u35	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u36	...what is to induce the economic exile of our new people out of our country? What are you going to do, Mr. Feijóo?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u37	Thank you very much. The President of the Board has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u38	Thank you very much, Madam President. Your Honor, I will convey to President Rajoy your congratulations that your economic policy seems right to you and you are having good results both in GDP and in reducing unemployment. I think that's important, because today it depends on who's talking to in the United Left. I tell you something or I tell you the opposite. But, in any case, Your Honor, I would like to tell you that austerity is not the cause of problems, austerity is the result of not solving problems in time. Austerity is the consequence of denying our country's situation during the years 2008, 2009, 2010 and 2011 and having to make decisions to address the country's economy from 2012. That is exactly the consequence, Your Honor. You know perfectly well, because you suffer from it in your group, that when Members leave, you have to adjust your income because you lower your income and you have to adjust your expenses. You know it perfectly well. Trade union organizations also know, families know, governments know, too. I told your partner, the PSdeG-PSOE spokesperson, that we're working with 2,000 million euros less every year. She said soon, but it's about 20% less budget capacity. And what surprises me is that the policies that you defend, at least part of your coalition, do not apply anywhere in Europe: neither in France nor in Italy nor Portugal. Where do you apply those proposals? Is there any Spanish-American country? Tell me who it is. Of course, European, none; none. Tell me one, Your Honor, and I'm sure we'll have a chance to confront him in the reply. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Look, Your Honor, saying that in Galicia the unemployment rate is an insult to all officials working in the offices of the Inem, because in Galicia the unemployment rate fell in 2014 by 7% and in Spain by 5%. [[Murmurs.]] I mean, he went down to Galicia two more points than he did in the middle of Spain. Today in Galicia, in January, we have 22,000 less unemployed than in 2014, 31,000 less unemployed than in 2013, 12,000 less unemployed than in 2012, and we have 12,000 more members of Social Security than a year ago. What do you mean when you say you don't lower unemployment in the autonomous community? Your Honor, we know the situation in our country and the economic conditions as well. We've already said that the industrial production index this year 2014 would not be good, but that the order index, it was good. And, in fact, the shipyards are starting to build boats and we've managed to get Citroën to have a guaranteed order book for the last ten years. I know that where you have the ability to influence syndically, you always boycott the agreements that benefit the whole of the workers.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u39	It's over, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u40	But, Your Honor, we have agreed with social agents a policy of encouragement for the recruitment of young people and long-term unemployed. Unfortunately, Your Honor, the social agents are now a little more responsible than some political leaders! Thank you very much, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u41	Mrs. Díaz Pérez's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u42	Mr. Feijóo, the truth is that in this control session, you have to have a sense of humor, because listening to you is to cry. Look, I don't miss saying those things that you say in this House, I sincerely believe that you are missing the thousands of people who are unemployed today, those people who – who are listening to us today – only 1 in 3 has social protection, Mr Feijóo. Those people are the ones you're missing about, the people you don't have to eat, that they're meat and bone, that they're human beings. We know, Mr. Feijóo, that in his family they don't suffer from his recipes, they don't suffer from austerity, their consequences; but the common people have people in unemployment and they know what it is. And, look, who's missing about the officials is you, because if anything was able to get it was to demolish the Public Employment Service. And I'm telling you again that Mrs. Mato is paying the ETT at the rate of 3,000 euros for each person who joins the labour market. Right, Mrs. Mato, right! This is your policy: to privatize the policies of misery, pain and suffering, Mr. Feijóo. You're not insulting me so much that you want to take me there; you're insulting people out there want you to have an answer. It's not true what you're saying, it's practicing austerity, which is the Dean. The Social Attila of the People's Party of the State is you, as it was on your day Gallardón, just to demolish the social achievements we have, so that people work under the minimum interprofessional wage, so that we have the living conditions we have. That's your social model. And, Mr. Feijóo, besides Latin American policies, follow some brilliant economist in Latin America or some brilliant president like what we have, for example, in Ecuador, to change your policies, but, look at Greece, Mr. Feijóo, look at Greece... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u43	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u44	...because the times are red...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u45	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u46	...in another way, and the times, Mr. Feijóo...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u47	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u48	...they will destroy you and your policies. See the example of Greece: EUR 751, minimum inter-professional wage. We'd like to, Mr. Feijóo... we'd like to! [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u49	Finish, please. Please, please be quiet. [[Murmurs.]] The President of the Board has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u50	Thank you very much, Madam President. In Galicia there are 259,000 unemployed. That's what you say that in a family there are unemployed and in other families... you don't know anything about families, about the situation of families. What really gives me the feeling is that you don't live badly, and sometimes on account of those who suffer, but that's your problem. My problem is those who suffer and those who are unemployed. Your Honor, when we're saying that Galicia has been able to reduce unemployment more than the rest of Spain, at least recognize it, because it is. When we're saying that among all of us we fund 7,700 new, public, social services squares, that's it. And when we go from 14,000 people attended to more than 77,000 people on the unit, that's how it is. Your Honor, and when we increase the income of social integration to an average of 15% and 20% each year, that's how it is. And when the poverty data come back today, and we have less poverty in constant terms than in 2009 and we have less poverty than in the rest of Spain. That's why, Your Honor, I'm surprised, but, after knowing his economic model, I'm surprised less. It turns out its mirror is Greece, a country rescued twice by Europe with Spanish funds. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Mr. Fajardo Recouso: Liar!]] Ladies and gentlemen, you are now breast-feeding Greece. Let's talk about Greece. The party that won the elections in Greece took 36% of the votes, and has an extra 50 Members for being the first political force. Do you think so, Your Honor, that we should do this electoral regime here in Spain and Galicia? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Second question, Your Honor...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u51	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u52	Second question, does it seem good that the first thing the Greek Government does is to deal with the extreme right of Greece? Madam, would you like to say, for example, that there is no woman in the Greek Government and that your boss in this Parliament says that this is normal? [[Murmurs.]] Is it because there won't be enough women in Greece? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] No, I know you don't agree, but it would be good if they unified the criterion, it wouldn't be that the Joint Group would increase. [[Laughter]] Madam, exactly what are you talking about saying that Greece is the model? The model of what, Your Honor, the model of a country that has the sovereignty questioned, the model of a country where all its inhabitants have lost their income?, the model of a country where people are taking out the money from the country? Your Honor, I know you're nervous about the situation in Greece and other situations we're living in...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u53	Mr. Fajardo, second call to order.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u54	Thank you, Your Honor. I'm the nervousness of the United Left. You have problems everywhere: in Andalusia they are despised by the Socialist Party and in Madrid they despise each other.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u55	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u56	And the problem we have here, Your Honor, is that we would like some proposal of yours to be serious and sensible and, for now, what you do is celebrate the Republic. Thank you very much, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u57	We continue the development of the agenda with point 4 of non-legislative proposals. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo and Da María Teresca Peace Franco, on the measures to be taken by the Environmental, Territorial and Infrastructure Council in the field of procurement of public works to avoid overcosts and ensure transparency and compliance with the applicable legality
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u58	Please be quiet, please. This motion for a non-law was tabled by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia at the initiative of Mr González Santín.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u59	To formulate the non-law proposition has the floor to Mrs. Pontón Mondelo, of the Galician Nationalist Block.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u60	Thank you very much, Madam President. The truth is that there are tomorrows when we come to the Galician Parliament, it really becomes a sad thing. And it is, of course, very sad to see how the president of the board intends to convert the control sessions into the comedy club or listen to some of the things he says with absolute frivolity in this Parliament. How do we think...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u61	Excuse me, Mrs. Pontón, excuse me for a moment. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Please be quiet, that, if not, you don't hear well. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Please, I'm already to moderate. Yes, do the favor. Mrs. Pontón, you can go on.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u62	Well, thank you very much, Madam President. Well, the president of the board, in his confusion with Parliament, on a television set, and a few days ago also at this session he came to appear, he said, he came to promise us, democratic regeneration, fighting corruption and a more transparent government. And we say that they are acts of frivolity because we see how, the next day, after promising ourselves democratic regeneration, it cuts democracy and applies a cut of initiatives from the BNG Parliamentary Group and the AGE Parliamentary Group. This is done in the name of democracy. We also see how this government, and the president of the Galician Union, also president of the People's Party, is going to fight corruption, because it allows people charged with serious corruption in its government – he did it with some other charges – and we also see as accused mayors still being their candidates in the upcoming municipalities. Or we also see as if we are promised more democracy and even if we are promised much more demanding laws. But what happens at the same time? For the legislation on transparency that is currently in place is in breach of the law, which, by the way, also does the Environmental, Territorial and Infrastructure Council; a council that denies us documentation and information in this Parliament or of which we do not know who their advisors are. In any case, this is just a sample of how we have a government that does the opposite of what it says. And the subject of what we're going to talk about today, which is the conclusion of a report by the Board of Auditors, is also the finding of the government's lie by Mr. Núñez Feijóo that I am a transparent government, that I am a government that effectively manages public funds or that I am a government that is absolutely fulfilling the prevailing legality. We are going to talk today about a report by the Board of Auditors that reveals that for two years, during the two years 2010 and 2011, the Environment and Territory Council allocated over-costs in public work more than 200,000 euros, which means 31% increase in the cost of these contracts. So we're talking about something that in economic terms means an important waste of public funds. And this initiative is intended to consolidate an agreement in this House so that these over-costs are not allowed in public works. What we want with this initiative is a good administration, a good government and therefore avoid these over-costs, which, in addition to the collective imagination of many citizens – rightly or without it – are clearly linked to corruption practices or corruption in the management of public funds. So today, what we are proposing is a measure of transparency, a measure of fight against corruption and a measure of good management of public funds in this Parliament, because, as we say, that report of the Board of Auditors is demolition on the management that the Environment, Territory and Infrastructure Council is doing on the management of the public funds of the Galician Union. So look, they're telling us in this report not only that there are over-costs in two years that exceed 30% of what was planned, but that they're also telling us that some recruitment formulas used by the Environmental Council, which are more opaque, such as, for example, contracts negotiated without advertising, which are actually justified because they say it's in order to make a more agile processing. Well, once a part of these contracts are analysed, the Board of Auditors concludes that there is, of course, no processing time to justify the use of these funds. He also says that in the procedures negotiated in no case was the reason why companies were selected and not others were motivated. It also tells us that in 6 of the 24 controlled contracts – i.e. in 25% of these contracts – the competition required by the Public Sector Contracts Act has changed. And it also concludes, in connection with this and some other issues, that in many of those who were dealt with by the emergency route the circumstances were not properly justified in any of the contracts, despite the fact that this is a requirement of the law enforcement. There's another aspect that also highlights, and that seems to us important, about how you're hiring the Environmental, Territorial and Infrastructure Council, where you say there's a fractionation of the contractual object that has no justification. So what the Board of Auditors reveals is how the Board of Auditors makes smaller contracts in the same work in order to assist them without having to go through a public contest. It also refers, as we have already said, to matters of overcosts which we believe are very relevant and very important issues from the point of view of public management. Because what you're going to tell us is that also 83% of the contracts that the Board of Auditors analyzed have been increased the price of what they initially paid and that really the final cost what it says is that the bases for which these contracts were awarded have not been met, that really in many contracts what is being used is a very important drop in the final price of the contract to achieve it, but then it is done through modifications a renegotiation of the price that is advantageous to the company, and that in any case these modified – and this is said by the Board of Auditors itself – do not obey the unscheduled causes, but rather obey the questions and the circumstances that had to be foreseen in the original project. So there's a conviviality in this area that we think it's important that it be broken. It seems also relevant to us, from the point of view of how the Government sells things that are then not reality, the analysis by the Board of Auditors on the deadlines in which it pays to the Council of Galicia, because its lordships will remember that Mr. Feijóo in the sessions of the Comedy Club comes here to tell us that he is a paid administration, that he abides by the law and that he is even above all administrations I don't know whether of the world, at least he tells us that of the Spanish State. However, the data in this report of the Board of Auditors reveal that the Government of Feijóo, and in particular the Environment Council, pay in accordance with the Public Sector Contracts Act, and say, for example, that in the 71 certifications analysed for the 2010 financial year, the deadline set out in the law for payment was exceeded by 55 days. With regard to the 2011 exercise, it is observed that the average payment for the certifications analyzed is 138.93 days, which is more than twice the permit. I mean, it's a finding and certification of all the propaganda and the lies that this government has said about how it's managing public funds. That is why we are proposing this initiative today that we imagine the People's Parliamentary Group will support; we imagine it because it really responds to the implementation of measures of sound management of public funds and to the measures that the Board of Auditors is saying in this report. And we propose that no amendments or supplements of public works contracts and services should be allowed as long as they are of greater value than 1%; that contracts should be made primarily through open procedures; that, in the case of proceeding, such negotiated procedures should be used, that instructions or guides should be approved for negotiating procedures which are objective and with documentation of which proposals should be made to adapt it to the specified requirements; since we believe that smaller contracts will continue to exist, that a register of minor contracts should be made so that the number of contracts, object, content, adjudicator can be verified...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u63	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u64	...and also the amount of these contracts; that the practice of dividing the object of contracts is eliminated; and finally that they are included in the administrative clauses of environmental and social taxation, because it is something that the Administration is not doing, considering criteria such as that companies guarantee the economic return to Galicia or the creation of quality employment. Today, therefore, the People's Party has the opportunity to decide whether to really bet on applying what the Board of Auditors is saying, to avoid some of the practices...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u65	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u66	...—Finished, Madam President, but they interrupted me for a while and I would ask you to make up for that time that I lost because of the noise in the room. In any case, we are asking for transparent public management and where we avoid practices in which in many cases we know that there are corruption and corruption behind them. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u67	Intervention of parliamentary groups. Socialist Group, Mr González Santín.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u68	Thank you, President. This BNG initiative is merely the translation of an account report in which serious irregularities are detected in the management of public contracts of the Environmental and Territorial Council. I say this because this is not a proposal that presents the opposition with data that would pull out of the sleeve, but it is something that detects – I repeat – the Council of Auditors of Galicia. I would also dare to say that this contractual management is not exclusive to the Environmental Council, but that it could be extended to the entire public procurement of the Galician Union. Here, the truth is, in view of what the Board of Auditors report says, there are serious irregularities which I believe the Galician Union must correct; it is not that it can correct, but that it has an obligation to correct. First, the Law on Contracts, when it speaks of negotiated procedures and minor contracts, does so to explain or to justify that a contract in which the usual procedure would be the open procedure can be made, for reasons of time, by means of speed, through negotiated procedure or, if a lot of urgency is needed and certain amounts are not reached, by means of the minor contract. Well, what the Board of Auditors detects is that on the subject of negotiated contracts time would only be thirty days less; that is, what would be negotiated procurement would not be justified and that the open procedure should be used. It also says very interesting things in this type of procurement of negotiated procedures, as it is that there are actually three bids – but it says in one case four were requested – but the reality is that later, when the Council has to decide, it does not have those three bids, but it has less in 25 percent of the cases. Why? Because the letters sent didn't arrive or either because the companies that were asked for the offer didn't answer. Besides, I also detect something that's important to me as well. It says the Board of Auditors that by a minimum difference – i.e., that we are talking about, for example, a euro – a company could have 20 more points in its valuation. It does not seem logical that by a difference from a euro, the most affordable company in the world, for example, has twenty points, as the Board of Auditors says, and the previous one, for one more euro, has an assessment of one point. All of this would go against, I understand, the spirit of the contract law. It also refers to that when you go through an emergency file, which is about reducing the deadlines to half, once this is done, it turns out that the Board of Auditors, in carrying out the procedure, because it does not meet the deadlines of this emergency; therefore, all the records – all, I repeat, analyzed by the Board of Auditors – that they are urgent, would have no sense of being. It also speaks the Board of Auditors about the generalized use of the fractionation of the contract object. What do you get with this? It is possible to avoid the Contract Law, so that, for example, if you use the minor contract in two or three parts when it really would have to be a single contract that would have to be negotiated. And it also detects interesting things and I think it's also good to highlight here. The partner who presented the BNG initiative has already commented on them, which says that the Administration is obliged – and I repeat, obliged – to pay in 2010 in 55 days. Well, the Board of Auditors detects that it does it on average in 74.63. In 2011, he would be forced to pay in 50 days. So what the Board of Auditors detects is that it's paid on average in 138.93 days. If we continue in this dynamic, in 2015 – where we are – Galician Union would be paying its suppliers in more than a year, this union that pays so well and manages public funds so well. It is also found here that there is a very important and very significant increase in complementary and modified contracts. Well, it also says the Board of Auditors that these modified ones obey deviations that should be laid down in the nails and that should be planned in the projects; therefore, we understand that this too is something that, of course, needs to be modified. This is where we put our amendment. We understand that the problems of the modified and complementary are not the amount of the modified or complementary, which is perfectly regulated, we understand, in the contract law, but where the problem is in the volume of what is done, which, according to the Board of Auditors, is in most contracts; something that has to be totally exceptional has become a normal rule. And what we propose in our amendment is that we strictly comply with the Contract Law and that the modified and complementary are something exceptional. And finally, we also make a small amendment to point eight of this initiative. Why? Because we believe that, of course, the project's editor-technicians have to be responsible, and they have to ask for responsibilities from the projects they do. But, of course, I don't think we can convert as many of the experts in Joina or an external who make a project into a risk profession, that this could only be demanded from these technicians if they, with the file in their hand, could predict this situation...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u69	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u70	...–if, I'm finished, President – if these technicians can reasonably predict that it is necessary to make an amendment or a supplement and not solve it, then we understand that we would have to ask for responsibilities, otherwise not, and in this sense our amendment is going to be amended. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u71	Thank you very much. Joint Group, Mrs. Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u72	Thank you, President. Good morning to all and to all. A big deal of alleged corporate, political and police corruption in Galicia – Pato, Champion, Pokemon, Zeta – around concessions and public aid. In the so-called Pokemon case, the possible crimes discovered in the investigation are: rocket, documentary falsity, embezzlement of public funds, money laundering, negotiations forbidden to officials, electoral crimes... the most shaken by these children, as we know, is the Town Council of Compostela in its relationship with the Vendex Group companies. In Spain large buildings have increased in their final disbursement. Overcost payment is a common practice in big Spanish projects because you always look for the cheapest, and the cheapest then fulfills your obligations, which leads us to increase that budget. And in addition to those concessions that are granted, counting only on the economic cost, they carry with them an over-exploitation that is rooted in slavery, as happened in the construction of AVE with Portuguese workers and other immigrant workers who were exploited to limits, of course, delicious. But we have some examples, in addition to the AVE here in Galicia, such as the M-30 tunnel, which was originally planned at 1,700 million and ended up costing 3,500 million, which, together with interest, went from 1,700 million to 10,406 million. AVE Madrid-Barcelona had a 31% surplus, according to the Court of Auditors, from 8,966 million to 6,800. The variant of Birds in the year 2003, then it went from 1,085 million to 3,200. At terminal 4 in Barajas, 6,200 million had a budget that increased by 1,033 million euros. In Galicia, we have the wonderful City of Culture, which has already cost us a kidney, and goes through the second; the works of the variant of Vilagarcia, which have increased by 51%; the Quiroga-Folgoso frame, which has increased by 72.5%; the improvement in road safety in AC-211, which has increased by 120%. I mean, the Union over the past five years has helped projects for 650 million and ended up paying 718. In infrastructures, in the case of the Board of Auditors, it detects significant economic and temporary deviations at a price of 152.8 million, and they ended up costing more than 200 million. At the local level, we also have cases of these, such as in the Pontevedra Parliamentary, with the Pasaron Stadium, which Mr. Louzan had initially tried for 7.2 million and ended up costing more than 17 million. That's why, perhaps, he's now the president of the Football Federation. In the Peton in Artexo polygon, also after fifteen years, the judge speaks of a lump of irregularities and a gravely negligent conduct. In Sergas too, we have a request for Cofely contracts to be investigated, which has the extension of the hospital in Salnes and fifteen health centres to be assisted. Not all opaque practices are corrupt practices, but, yes, all opaque practices limit the ability to monitor any citizen conscious of public spending. The money of the public work is all of them, and therefore all of us need to know what it is spent on and how it is spent on. Therefore, this transparency of which the People's Party so much speaks of is time for it to take it forward, for it to shed light on the public work, to promote transparency measures which, although they will not end with a pen with corruption, will make possible a more accurate and informed surveillance of citizens, and it is only for that reason that it is worth it, because only a corrupt government, only a government that works for friends, conceals information. If you really rule for the people, it's time for them to be transparent. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u73	Thank you very much. Mr Sánchez has the floor by the Parliamentary Group of the Gaga de Left Alternative.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u74	Good morning also to the people who visit us. Welcome, and let's hope that today you will see an answer to your problem, which is far more important than any one we can deal with today, because we're talking about people's lives. It's an honor for me to speak before you. Well, after what you've already talked about, I mean we're going to support this initiative, and we're going to join the arguments here, but they're not system mistakes, it's the system. Corruption is not a result of system errors, corruption is the system, and if we don't analyze it from there, we can hardly solve these problems. We support all these measures proposed by the Board of Auditors, but we say that the biggest undercost is the waste of oversaturation of infrastructures of a very dubious general interest. It is a business model developed in recent decades, rooted in the Frankish business oligarchy, with the complicity of governments, which consists of draining public money for the construction companies, in this case; a corrupt business that impoverishs us under a powerful official propaganda that this is the progress, but, yes, always without giving information and giving voice to the people. Corruption. We're talking about corruption, and we could cite a lot of cases, but who made the prayers to the Galician People's Party in 2006, which were recorded in the report by Modesto Fernández? The leader of the People's Party, among them many of these companies who benefit from contracts. It is no coincidence that the Galician Economic Forum among its most priority measures spoke of a cost-benefit study for each investment in infrastructures of more than 5 million euros, and I would add: and the cost of opportunity. The cost of opportunity means that right now there are amazing projects in this country and that they are wasting money to pay medicines to the sick and sick people of hepatitis C. For example, is it a priority to spend 100 million euros on 6 kilometres of highway that goes anywhere on A-57, for example? We ask people in Pontevedra's district if they want to spend 100 million euros on six kilometres of highway at the moment where they cut into health care and social services. That's the main overcost, and that's no coincidence, it's a business system assembled like that. How are we going to pay 100 million euros for six kilometers or 40 million euros for making a variant in Portsín, a core of 700 inhabitants? Ask the comarca, the Portsin area, whether they want those 40 million to make a variant or if they want those 40 million to improve schools, health centers, co-operatives, eco-agriculture, etc.Is that what you're talking about? Why don't we put that debate on the table? Why don't we give real information to people who can decide not reactively, how the system is mounted, but on the definition of the country model; that is, not when the allegations are made to an aberrant project, how are you doing? Why don't you do it? Obviously, it's not done because it's a very well-assembled business at the bottom. Austerity has reached teaching, austerity has reached health, austerity reaches social services, austerity reaches democracy, but austerity does not reach infrastructure. We have a country that is indebted to investments that certain companies have made and used to make a worldwide leap. The case of the Spanish State is studied throughout Europe. The Spanish state in the last ten years to 2012 was the largest cement consumer in all of Europe, the fifth in the world. It is no coincidence that the Spanish case is studied with interest. I mean, we have to go to the root of the problem, and the problem is that public money is being spent directly on businesses; and it's obvious that all of these practices in Galicia's Opacity Board, not to comply with the Contracts Act, etc., are one more part of this system, necessary but not enough. So if you want to spend everyone's money on everyone's priorities, what needs to happen is a system where there's information, real citizen participation and willingness not to benefit your friends. The People's Party will come here and talk – I bet it is necessary – that there are others who do it worse, that the bipartisan... We're not talking about that – we were talking about Greece before – we're talking about whether that system managed by whoever was managed is what will continue to apply in this country or whether we're willing to start a new step based on the general interest of people in this country. That's what this is about. If you're going to talk and throw balloons out to Zapatero, to Touriño, etc., it'll be doing a weak favor to this society. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u75	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Gómez Alonso. Give a voice to Mr. Gómez Alonso's chair.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u76	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, as we can see, we continue the campaign of harassment and destruction by nationalists and by some Members of the opposition against the Environment, Territory and Infrastructure Council. The nationalists began accusing us of prevarication in reprogramming the Costa da Morte bus. They said in no way that we forgave a company, in particular Copasa, 40% of the trace and 17% of the cost, and that the cost of the new reprogramming kilometre was substantially increased. The truth is, ladies and gentlemen, on the highway to the Coast of Death, in that reprogramming, the cost of investment has fallen by 21%, the cost of conservation and exploitation by 22.4% and the cost of financing by less than 20%. And this, ladies and gentlemen, is not said by the spokesperson of the People's Parliamentary Group on Infrastructure, that is the Banco de España, the INE, and the IGAE. But the campaign continued with the discourse that uses political formations such as AGE or the Joint Group, that our political training only defends the interests of companies with the update we had to make of the cannons of the traffic tolls in the shade. And the truth is, ladies and gentlemen, that the highways in the shadow, their cannons – which this government had to review to prevent the breaking of businesses – were approved by the former two-party Government, although Mr. Sánchez does not like to mention it; in particular, in Barbados, it was approved in 2006; in Salnes and Santiago-Brion, in 2005; and in Celanova, in 2009; and he had to come to this government to solve the problem of the bad accounts that others have made to approve these economic and financial plans. And we also had to fix, ladies and gentlemen, the problem of the over-cost of AG-53 rescue accounts in more than 600 million euros to prevent the Greek ships from taking up the payment of that toll in the shade. So, Mr. Sánchez, one thing is that infrastructures are not useful and another that there are governments and there are government leaders who do not administer public money in a serious and responsible way. And, of course, now the shadow of corruption, the campaign of despicableness, they want to take it to all accounts of the MATI Group. It is true that there was a report from the Board of Auditors, but they will also remember their lordships – and there are the hemerothecas – that the first ones we reported on the overcosts in the public works in Galicia were this parliamentary group, in more than 200 million euros. It says the Board of Auditors that in the years 2010 and 2011 the costs of the works increased by 31% and that of 71 contracts increased their cost 59. But, Mr. Santín, look at the files more rigorously in those accounts of the years 2010 and 2011; nine out of every ten contracts were records coming from the two-party government. So they were accounts that you voted again. Of course, that's what you don't say, and what the Board of Auditors says is that in 2009 the usual practice of the two-party government, the former Environmental Adviser or Public Works, was that of low fear, and it was in 54% of the contracts that she was adjudicating or signing within her Department of Public Works. And what do you tell me about what happened to the former Environmental Adviser? In four years, 84 emergency works, 60 million euros; 160 contracts without advertising, 31 million euros. Mr. Santín, you don't throw stones at your own roof when you talk about overheads. And, of course, BNG now wants to be more papist than the Pope and wants us to amend the Public Sector Contracts Act. We agree with the Public Sector Contracts Act, which is only allowed to be modified by 10% of under-recosts and supplements by 50% of overcosts. And to finish, we're going to check the overcosts to see what's the difference between the years 2005-2009 and the years 2009-14. Bipartite bids amounted to €655 million, with this government bids exceeded €800 million. By bipartite, the amounts of adjudication on these 655 million euros were 563 million euros, with this government, over 800 million, over 650 million euros. What was the result of the overcosts? With the bipartite, of 217 million euros on the adjudicated contract. With this government, of 67 million euros. What were the cost of the two-party government bid? 125 million euros. With this government? Of -89 million euros. Thus, 28% have been reduced...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u77	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u78	...the overcosts in the administration with the current Environmental, Territorial and Infrastructure Council. And, Mrs. Pontón, as much as you strive, and your parliamentary group, in disparaging this council and in blatantly accusing us of corruption, believe me that you have little success. Do you know why you're not successful? Because everyone knows that you are also part of the political caste. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u79	Thank you, Mr. Gómez Alonso. Author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Pontón. Give a voice to Mrs. Pontón's chair, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u80	Thank you very much, Mr. President. First of all, I would like to thank both the AGE and the Joint Group for their support for this initiative; and tell the PSOE Group that we can accept the second part of their initiative, not the first one, because they actually make a substantial change of our proposal. We propose that they not be allowed to be modified by a value greater than 1%, and we understand that this amendment amends one of the fundamental points that we are proposing today. So that first point we can't accept. With regard to the intervention of the People's Party spokesman, I believe that the PP is already in a supreme delirium: the Board of Auditors is part of a nationalist conspiracy to discredit the Environmental, Territorial and Infrastructure Council. You follow with an argumental line that to me the truth is that it makes me amazed, the rigor and seriousness that they use. I also want to tell you that the Galego Nationalist Block has kept every and every one of the claims that we have made in relation to the Highway on the Death Coast, and that we believe it is a scandal the modification that you are making of this contract; a scandal that subordinates public interest to private interest and that, therefore, it is to put above the defense of the interests of the Greeks and the Greeks a price that is good for that concessionary company, which, we say again, within that UTE – oh, what a chance! – is one of the companies that are part of the Gürtel plot. That's why the Council doesn't allow us to access and analyze in detail that file. And despite our request, we refuse to transfer it to this Parliament. But don't worry that on this subject we're going to debate in a concrete way. And, of course, I would also ask Mr. Gómez Alonso – who likes to remember the bipartisan – to remember the Fraga Government, of which Mr. Núñez Feijóo was vice president. I think he'll know what the price was set on the conditions of the Bavarian highway or the Salnés bus. I imagine something about this will know Mr. Núñez Feijóo, who I think was in charge of the bidding of these projects. So a little bit of shame and some political decency. And, look, today we assume that the blame for the management of 2010 and 2011 is for the two-party government, like, if we were ruling at that time, right, Mr. Gómez Alonso? I think it's a real booty of your argument. In any case, today we are not debating what the bipartisan did, we are discussing a report of the Board of Auditors on the 2010 and 2011 financial years and a few proposals. You're in favour of overcosts; the People's Party wants to allow overcosts. What we propose on this initiative is that no over-costs are allowed, which are a misappropriation of public funds, in the end, because we are misusing the resources of the Administration. Contracts are being awarded to companies for a price that is soon ignored and therefore in breach of the principles that must be governed by the Public Administration. This is what we vote for, not what does one or another...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u81	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u82	...and what we want to do for the future. And please stop being always with the rearviewer, because, six years later, the only thing that proves is that your government has no solvency or a management to sell. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u83	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. We now proceed to the cumulative debate on non-law 4.6 and 4.7 proposals, which correspond to the initiatives of the Parliamentary Group of the Glaga Alternative of the Left and the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block of Galicia. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. by Alternative Galaga de Left, at the initiative of Da Eva Solla Fernández and Mr José Javier Ron Fernández, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece to ensure that patients with hepatitis C have access to existing new therapies G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da María Montserrat Prado Cores, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece to ensure that patients with hepatitis C have access to new therapies
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u84	To discuss these non-legislative proposals, first of all, you have the floor by the Parliamentary Group of the Alternative Left Galician, Mrs Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u85	Thank you, President. First of all, I want to welcome and thank the people who are in the gallery, members of the Sick and Hepatitis C-affected Platform. In 2013, in the context of the debate on the compensation of the hospital pharmacy, I used a well-known poem by Bertolt Brecht, "Many ways of killing", which actually referred to the indirect ways of killing political decisions, among them, not healing a disease, and to which few of these ways of killing are certainly forbidden in the state. Here the same thing happens and we could include the situation of thousands of people, sick and sick with hepatitis C, abandoned by the government of their country and by the Government of the State; abandoned their health, despite being the right to life a fundamental right. There are 700,000 people throughout the Spanish state who are shy, cheated and deceived by their government, unprotected; 40,000 people in Galicia have to tolerate not only the suffering of their serious health problem, not only the impossibility of not being able to access new treatments because of the measures or political decisions of this government, but they have to bear the lies of the Government, trying to circumvent their political responsibilities. We have already spoken in the previous full of reasons for reaching this situation. From AGE we have warned that, of course, these are the consequences of pharmaceutical speculation, the weariness and the rapture of capitalism, because in private companies, they have the right to make their economic interests prevail over people's health. But they are private companies and unfortunately we have less research and public services, and that, yes, is government responsibility. One example is the rejection in budgets, for example, of the AGE amendments that propose the creation of a public pharmaceutical laboratory just a few months ago – I don't know if they've forgotten –. The central government has avoided exercising its powers to negotiate, like other states, more advantageous prices with the multinational Gilead. And then he went on to lie about the criteria for access to drugs and limit access by economic criteria, setting a low-cost ceiling of EUR 125 million for the entire state. At the same time, he evidently shut down the possibility of producing the drug outside the Gilead patent. They may, they have legal instruments, but they don't want to try. And while daily twelve people die throughout the state every day; every day twelve people die. It prefers the Government to benefit from a multinational usurer that has already sold to us Tamiflu and that last year has increased its benefits by 127% by extorting at the prices of these antivirals – $24.9 million of profit had last year – than to see for the health of citizens and citizens. But today we haven't seen so much about the company or even the drug patent, we've come to ask for the responsibilities of the Health Council. Because the Government forgets that it has its own health skills, and not only applauds the central government's restrictions on access to Sofosbuvir, but I'm able to further restrict these access conditions. Always, when we talk about cuts, the People's Party is an advanced student of the People's Party of Madrid. It is false that the criteria currently on the table are either scientific or medical; they are economic criteria, because, of course, scientific criteria have already passed when the medicine was authorised by the Medicines Agency, and this has been a year ago. What happens is that when you fix a spending ceiling as tiny as what you've done, of EUR 125 million for the whole state, you have to restrict access because you're just going to be able to buy a few thousand treatments, when you talk – I repeat – of 700,000 people throughout the state and of 40,000 people in Galicia. So what becomes clear is that investment doesn't want or do not, of course, have the will to expand it. And what does the Council do? Restrict access with criteria, from the beginning of October 2014, even narrower, but restrictive – worth redundancy – and despite enlargement, of the Ministry's criteria in November and December, these have not changed. The councilman – he said here – went to that International Council talking about equity – also denounced the members of the platform themselves – and maintained worse access conditions for the Greeks and the Greeks than other people from other parts of the state. He had to gather the affected and affected platform to move him that they were keeping those restrictions that were not maintained in the rest of the state. And until January 28th -- fourteen days after that Interterritorial Council -- he didn't have the dignity of modifying those criteria to improve access. This Union does not exercise its political powers, and people are dying. This isn't a joke, it's not a political game. Today we bring this initiative from the affected and affected platform so that they moved to it because, of course, we assumed from Alternative Galga de Left the will to move that voice from citizenship. And therefore, of course, the people concerned will not talk about economic prices, so this initiative does not talk about prices, the minimum is asked. They said it the other day. They won't price their lives themselves. Would you put a price on the lives of these people? How much is a person's life worth? How many will you be, gentlemen of the People's Party and ladies of the People's Party, willing to pay to save these people's lives? What they ask – and so we move it and we hope they have the minimum humanity to approve it – is that they meet the criteria of the specialist medical staff and that people who have prescribed these drugs if they provide them with treatment, putting all means for all urgent cases according to the criteria of their own study associations of the liver. And, of course, let it be immediate, because the people who are in advanced stages and who have urgent problems don't have time to lose these political disputes, if you want here and in Madrid to extend more credit to provide them with the treatment they should be entitled to. From the Alternative Gaga de Lefta we also warned – although, I repeat, this initiative is the minimum we consider that the Government, a responsible government, should make it – that we have already presented more initiatives because the Union does not put even one euro to finance the treatments; zero euros for treatment of people who are dying every day. That's right, 640,000 euros in Sergas chapels every year, 300,000 for a video by Enrique Iglesias, or 319,000 euros in Christmas advertising for this year. We want children to be born, but we don't worry about taking care of the lives of those we already have, of the Greeks and Greeks who are sick and who want to exercise their right to health. You will know by your vote which way they stand.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u86	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u87	Good day to all and all. I also want to begin by greeting, on behalf of the Galego Nationalist Block, the people who are today in the rostrum, the men and women who make up the Platform for Hepatitis C-affected in Galicia; men and women who have had to form a platform to claim and defend their rights in the face of both the actions of banishment and criminal both of the Greek Government and of the Spanish Government. Today the BNG will defend here this non-law proposition by making us the initiative that transferred us directly to the platform. We only put the title on him; of course we fully assume the initiative as it was transferred, because we believe in the BNG that it is fair to do so. We do it because the fight against hepatitis C is the struggle of all of us and all of us who defend a public health, who we defend that public resources are to first respond to people rather than other needs. We do it because we cannot allow the pharmaceutical industry business and the abuse and despotism of certain governments in their service to prevent patients from being able to heal. Because we're not talking about higher quality of life or greater well-being, we won't get tired of repeating it; we're talking about life or death, we're talking about people, like those who are now in the gallery, who suffer the consequences, who suffer a disease and the consequences of one of the governments – the German and Spanish – who cut off and deny treatment for that disease. I said in the intervention that I had here on January 27, when the Health Counsellor came here to lie – and then I will say why – that day the platform and the affected and affected in Galicia were in mourning because the day before a fellow on the platform had died. Actually, that's what we're talking about, the reality that people die every day from this disease. And people die from this disease when there's treatment to cure her. And in the presence here of the counsellor on January 27, he didn't deny it; he said that there were ratios of more than 90% of treatment effectiveness. With which, we're talking clearly about treatment, which is not willing to apply. We're talking about a serious disease, a chronic illness, a disease with which it was barely possible to do anything but try its reversibility and no further progress. With the new treatments we're in a totally different situation, we're in a situation where disease can be cured. But the hope and expectation that I have assumed for thousands of people in the Spanish state and for thousands of people in Galicia – because, despite the fact that the Council is not facilitating the number of people affected in Galicia, we know that thousands of people are infected and that thousands of people would need their treatment immediately – the appearance of these new drugs was coupled with the negligent, criminal action by the Spanish State and the Greek Government; an action that was most intended to put obstacles, problems and barriers, so that patients could not access drugs, that in the opposite direction, and actions that put their health at risk and put their lives at risk. Because the drugs that are being dispensed are exempt from them on the basis of economic criteria and not medical criteria, as much as they try to disguise it, paint it and say otherwise. We passed, from the beginning of 2014, where at that time the Spanish state health minister had announced that drugs would be available to patients in October, to set up a study commission, until today we have not even the first draft, the first draft of that study. We are talking about a Greek government that, far from acting in the service of the Greeks and the Greeks, which, far from acting for the benefit of Galician patients, the adviser not only refuses to exercise her powers, but also as counsellor of the Government of Galicia, is the most advanced student in implementing the restrictive measures imposed by the Spanish Ministry. The advisor came here on January 27 to theoretically report on the situation in which the treatment was treated and the patients of hepatitis C. In addition to assigning very little time to the subject, what he did was lie; the counselor lied here, in this Parliament, first because she said that we were –textually, I repeat – treating hepatitis C patients according to the criteria set by experts on the subject and according to scientific evidence. He lied, because scientific evidence says that they should be applied to all patients who are in phase 3 and phase 4 and that the cure level is above 90%. In Galicia they are not being applied to those in phase 3 and phase 4; with which he has been lying. He said Sergas is guaranteeing fairness and homogeneity in the application...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u88	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u89	...of treatment in Galicia, and he lied again, because the reality of what's going on in Galicia is: firstly, that people's files are missing, with which, it's still months to apply the treatment. And why did we find out about that miss? For the performance of the platform and the affected, because it was denied that nothing was happening. The counselor said here that everything was very good, when it turns out that the reality was that, for example, if they were losing files, and that's why they were delaying treatment for people. He said that all the criteria were being applied, and it turns out that Galician criteria were being applied more restrictive than those determined by the Ministry, for example, not to apply them to more than 70 years – criminal! –. In Galicia, the application of these treatments was delayed when in October they were already updated by the Ministry, and until the end of January – January 28 – there was no warrant for a circular saying that they could access these drugs. At Galicia he was strictly applying the action determined by the Ministry. In Galicia, treatment for advanced patients is denied. There are examples and testimonies of patients themselves. You're denying people that they theoretically meet those already restrictive criteria of the Ministry, and here the advisor said it wasn't true. In Galicia they're putting all kinds of locks on these patients. Since the doctor makes the request of the drugs so that the patient can receive them, he starts a real crossroad and a real calvary: that request from the specialist goes to the management, from the management goes to the Board, and from the Directorate General, he is sent to his evaluation commission, in case the files are not missed; and after this subcommittee decides that it is likely to receive treatment, the way back begins: from the subcommission to the general address, from the general management to the management and the management again to the specialist. With which, the application of drugs remains, and the deadlines and times that the patients do not have are being extended, because we are talking about a disease that kills, a disease that kills! With which, obstacles, difficulties, obscurantism and zero transparency. Why isn't the composition of the subcommittee that assessed these cases made public by the Galician Union? What's the reason we don't know who the people who decide who they get and don't get treatment? These are matters that are still to be clarified. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, and ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, I have told you on behalf of the BNG – because I am of course saying that the rest of the groups that we make up the House will support this initiative – in demand that they support it, that they support the request made by the platform, that it is none other than that the Galician Parliament urges the Government of Galicia to address the Government of Spain to ensure access to new therapies and that the patients of hepatitis C need it to take place according to medical criteria. It's as simple as that: that they be medical criteria, that they're not put on a ceiling, because people's lives cannot have an economic roof; people's lives cannot be priced. An initiative that calls on the Government of Greece to take the necessary measures to ensure that the treatment of new hepatitis C drugs is dispensed in hospital pharmacies to those patients who are prescribed by their specialists immediately. It seems to us that this is the least that can be done, because the opposite is obscene and immoral. It's obscene and immoral...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u90	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u91	...and a criminal who is allowed to die while the drug's pharmacist has millionaire profits, while the pharmacist has declared that in 2014 it had 13 billion euros of benefit, most of which at the cost of this medicine. If you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party do not vote in favour of this, you will be voting in favour of giving business to a pharmacist instead of curing the lives of Welshmen and Greeks like those who are now in the gallery.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u92	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u93	I hope they do.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u94	Thank you, Mrs. Prado, thank you. Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Iglesias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u95	Good morning to all of you. Good morning to the fellows and fellows of illness who are upstairs in Parliament. Of course, the Mixed Group will approve this initiative; a disease that causes 4,000 deaths a year; a silent, slow disease that inexorably decreases the quality of life of those who suffer it; a disease that today can be cured because there is finally effective treatment, but it is not dispensed because the benefits of pharmacists are more important than health and even people's lives; a treatment of proven profitability in healing results. How can they deny us the right to health? Who can dare argue against universality in the dispensation of a remedy that will cure and improve the life expectancy of thousands of citizens? Will it be because behind it is a pharmaceutical that is called Gilead, multinational in the hands of the major global investment funds, with branches in the bank and in the main multinational companies? This company has strong connections to the U.S. administration and the main think tank and international pressure groups, including Donald Rumsfeld and George Shultz, state secretary of the U.S. administration. The president of the Collective Medical Organization defended on 20 January 20th, the right to health above any patent, in his appearance before the media to present the corporation's positioning to the new hepatitis C drugs, whose abusive and dangerous prices – according to Rodríguez Sendín, president of this body – open a path that, if not corrected, can collapse the National Health System. And it is clear in this statement that the need for a specific and finalist funding fund for the approach of this chronic, severe, long and lethal disease, which in the state could affect some 500,000 people, could affect. He also recalled that in recent years there have been a series of very effective and safe treatments to deal with this pathology, but that they have been subjected by their manufacturers to a strict market criterion. According to the President of the Collective Medical Organization, the aggressive pricing policy of these treatments also opens the way for all innovative and relevant medicines that could arise in the future, which, if not avoided, would put the National Health System at risk, by causing a financial collapse, thus making it impossible to respond equally to all the health needs of citizens. This is the positioning of medical professionals. What the patients feel and think of this pathology, allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to express it in the first person, because this honourable Member is a Greek citizen waiting for treatment since Dr. Gesto – a specialist in public health policy in Ourense – has been directed – and recommended – to these treatments. This has been for more than two years, of silence and none, of uncertainty and discouragement; three years of abandonment. The argument that a committee – it will be a small committee – will be what value it should receive or not the treatment does not serve. You don't understand, when there's already a diagnosis and a patient's drift to the medical unit that treats these diseases. On the other hand, it is absurd to wait for a worsening to be worthy of receiving, Mr Tellado, a remedy which guarantees 90% of the cures. But what do you want us to wait for, that we're dead, that we're finished? She does not wish anyone to suffer from this or any other illness, but she calls on the humanities of the governess to put an end to this situation in which the lives of many are at stake. And if not, I appeal to the citizens to deposit their sovereign vote in the polls that they can change these ruthless and mercantile policies, market puppets and alien to the most basic human principles. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u96	Thank you very much, Mrs. Churches. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Vázquez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u97	Good morning, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, men and women who make up the sick platforms to ask for something that seems incredible to be asking for: a treatment for a disease. And they'll let me make a reminder. On July 15 last year, I presented a non-legislative proposal on behalf of the Socialist Group exactly like the one presented today by the groups. On 10 September we discussed here a non-law proposal in which we said exactly the same thing, and after hearing the voices representing the other groups we kept saying the same thing: ladies and gentlemen, let me say that this debate seems aberrant to me. It is a political and citizen aberration that we have to be discussing at this time that when we have treatment that cures sick people at the risk of death it must be Parliament who discusses whether or not we are. But what are we talking about? You're going to fight here, if there's a drug that cures 90% of prostate or breast or lung cancer, if you have to bring it to Parliament if we treat it or not treat it? This is not a scientific commission, it's a political commission. I can remind the MPs of the People's Party and the people who are listening to us: 30,000 Welsh and Welsh are diagnosed with hepatitis C, and all the data point to 60% of silent infection. We can be talking about 50,000 or 60,000 men and women in this country who are suffering from a disease that is guilty of 10,000 deaths a year in Spain. I remind you that there are 1,500 traffic accidents in Spain, and look at what we've armed, and now we're discussing whether we treat these patients or not. Let me say it categorically: there's not one scientific argument for not treating them. This is a pure economic debate, and all the sub-refugees that you want to put on are literally excuses from bad payers. If there's a cost ceiling of 125 million a year for Spain, if we're 6% of the population, they're touching this country, the cost ceiling, 7,500,000. And with 7,500,000, you can't treat more than 250 patients a year. And if we have about 40,000 people telling lies. And the rest is a debate of parliamentary feud to see who speaks best, to see who speaks worse. This isn't going to talk better or worse, it's going to die or not die, which is not a minor matter, gentlemen. [[Applause]] I come here, ladies and gentlemen, to put forward a concrete proposal and a proposal that is not even of a parliamentary nature. We will have to sit down the parliamentary groups together and defend the patients who are at risk of obvious death. This isn't PP or AGE or PSOE. There's hepatitis C exactly the same as here. So let's be pragmatic, ladies and gentlemen. What do we have to talk about? We have to talk about not arguing whether we treat those who are sick or not, but being brave and going to a plan to eradicate hepatitis C in Galicia in 20 years, because it's possible. That's what we're talking about in Germany, Denmark, France; something so common sense that, if there's a treatment that cures the disease, we're going to put up a plan, not to discuss whether we treat it, but to eradicate that disease. And there's a 2030 plan where certain countries in Europe are working on getting hepatitis C eradicated by the year 2030. Look, if any health care – and I say it with all the respect of the world I deserve, because I don't like it at all – is the Catalan health, isn't it? Catalonia was the one that went ahead of all that. For on January 23, this year, Catalan health – and I ask them to take note, only in this, of Catalan health – makes a decision that says: expands budget spending shares and commits to treating patients in phase 2 and, of course, all those in phase 3. That's the way; the way cannot be to come here to see how we cheated and stretched out the chicle of the times. I make a call from here, and I do it as a doctor, as a companion, as a politician and as a Welshman. The Hepatitis C Follow-up Commission doesn't let him be the They're the scientists, those who have to defend with scientific rigour. And I say more, also as a doctor I almost apply a technique that is more juridical: in doubt pro reo; in doubt, for the patient; not in doubt that the patient dies. It is quite clear that if the commission has any doubts, it would be better to sin excessively than to sin by default. Look, ladies and gentlemen, let me say it a little bit [...]: this is about money; this is about money, it's not about scientific rigor, it's not about health rigor; it's about political insensitivity that measures everything in euros. And I'm asking you and I appeal to the parliamentary group to get you out of here today by sending a message of hope to people who are sick. And the message of hope must be very simple, ladies and gentlemen: light and tachographs. Let's make a Welsh strategy to eradicate hepatitis C. Let's get through a letter from the Health Council to each patient what their situation is and what it must be that way to achieve his healing. Let's make a system of transparency in which every patient, when he wakes up every morning playing his life in the Russian roulette, know which way he has to choose to look for the path of his healing. And I ask a question backwards: why can't we do that? How difficult is it to hold a meeting of speakers who urge the Government to meet with economic and scientific criteria? Is it so hard to do what Catalan health does? Is it so hard to do what the whole of Europe is doing? Do you know what the difference between Europe and Spain is? In Europe, in Germany, in Denmark, Gilead, the usurper, is the same as here, but there the governments made a decision: they treat the sick while fighting with the pharmaceutical. Here we make a different decision: we don't treat the sick while we fight the pharmaceuticals. In other words, in Germany time runs for pharmaceuticals, but not for the sick, and in Spain time runs for the sick, but not for pharmaceuticals. So I come, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, tell them that, of course, we will support the group's initiatives because they are of genuine justice...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u98	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u99	...but we've seen something here – you, those who like to say so much that this is not political – almost what I say is political: this is not political, it's justice; here we haven't seen political debate, because I don't think there'll be a single MP in the world who talks if, when you can treat a sick person, you have to treat him or not, because that wouldn't be a parliamentarian, you'd be an idiot. So what I'm here to tell you is that we don't argue, we don't doubt. Scientific societies have spoken, now they have to speak governments, and they have to speak only in one direction, gentlemen. And there I ask...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u100	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u101	...that we all join forces to urge this Greek government to tell them: gentlemen, modify Galician budgets, take away money from propaganda games, take money from what they want and put money to treat patients because if they don't treat them, they can die. That's politics, and don't come here to hide behind...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u102	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u103	...of a commission or behind a pseudoscience that doesn't agronomize anywhere.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u104	Thank you, Mr. Vázquez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u105	It's clear: what takes the medicine cure, and the person responsible for not taking the medicine is responsible for the deaths of those who don't. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u106	Thank you, Mr. Vázquez. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mr Núñez Centeno.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u107	Thank you, President. Good morning, gentlemen. I wanted, in principle, to greet the voices of the groups of the sick, whom we held a meeting where they exposed their concerns and demands in an environment of total cordiality, and of course the rest of the assistants of the collective. Of course, I, as a professional, fully understand the position of the sick, do not doubt it. Mrs. Solla and Mr. Vázquez above all, I would - you know that I don't like to talk about Andalusia or other places - tell you to review the presence of the Andalusian Health Counsellor of January 26th. They would realize that the situation in Galicia is better than it is in other autonomous communities. We, of course, in the Popular Parliamentary Group, believe that patients with hepatitis C should be treated according to clinical criteria; clinical criteria that are established by experts in the field and always following scientific evidence. These criteria will progressively be adapted as new data are generated or new therapeutic possibilities appear. The news that the Ministry of Health is planning to renew and update the clinical recommendations in hepatitis C this week even yesterday in the Medical Journal will change the famous IPTs. It's clear that the treatments we're going to talk about are very recent treatments and that their use and clinical trials will give rise to a series of scientific results and evidence that will help improve and adjust medication to individual circumstances of each patient. Every few months we have news of a new antiviral or a new association of effective drugs against hepatitis C. Multiple pharmaceutical companies compete to present their medicines as the best in the face of competition. Not only is Sofosbuvir, which is the famous Sovaldi, but Daclatasvir, which has been authorised since the beginning of this month, but they are also on the market, or will be in a few months, Bababuvir, Ombitasvir, Paritaprevir, Ritonavir, Grazoprevir or Elbasvir, among others. All of them will probably be as effective or more effective as they are currently marketed. However, in the current clinical guidelines, only three of them do not contain the new ones; therefore, of course, these clinical guides will have to be updated in the next few days. The marketing speed of these new medicines is what justifies the existence of updated protocols, in addition to the precautionary principle, to ensure safe use of them. We all have clear – we all agree – that, without any doubt, what it is about healing the infection. A month ago an agreement was announced unanimously between the Ministry and the seventeen autonomous communities to A month ago, a unanimous agreement was announced between the Ministry and the seventeen autonomous communities to develop a national strategic plan to address hepatitis C disease. They participate in the Spanish Association for the Study of Hygado, at least two. With the participation of national and international experts, a register and a database of the system will be created. Because what we do not have is information, we don't know how many sick people there are or what situation the disease is. And we'll also try to update the technical criteria. The draft – today is news in the media – is already finished and is currently in the hands of autonomous communities, scientific societies and patient associations for their study and allegations. And I've already told you before probably this same week the treatment criteria and the criteria for applying new treatments are changed. We must remember – and I want to remind you – that Spain is a pioneer in the introduction and financing of these new medicines. That's what they showed up in 2012 and that's how it's going to be with the new drugs. And I also want to remind you that today only three European Union countries – Luxembourg, Belgium and Spain – finance them, have them in the funded catalogue; and in Europe, in addition to these three, Switzerland. Yesterday, Minister Alonso stated in the Senate that at the end of January they had already been treated in Spain, during the month of January, 4,500 sick with new drugs. The most important thing, which must be clear, is that the Council has assured this Member that all patients who meet the criteria set out today are having and will have access to the medication they need. And Sergas also wants to guarantee homogeneity and equity in access to new treatments, thanks to the advice made through the subcommittee we are talking about here, which is composed of optional specialists in the treatment of this disease, who assess the relevant cases and verify that they meet the clinical criteria for treatment. In the same way it is done in the entire autonomous communities of Spain. In this way, it follows that those patients who meet the above criteria, and not others, are the new candidates for treatment. Applications are valued anonymously, to avoid pressures, by a group of professionals, from those who also respect anonymity to avoid pressures and threats of any kind. These committees are evaluating an important number of medications for other pathologies without generating any outstanding problems. There were indeed defects in the CHUS procedure that were admitted by the Administration of the hospital. We need to minimize them and take them to zero by controlling and investigating to prevent them from repeating. From the People's Group, we demand maximum rigour. The management of the centre has stated roundly in public note that all patients are identified and followed, that new treatments are already being dispensed to hepatitis C patients, that all patients who meet the criteria have already processed their applications for their drug dispensation. And they admit errors in the circuit – but in no case extravagant – that have been detected, reviewed and corrected. In addition, I can tell you that I have consulted you, that there are no new problems detected, and to avoid them it weekly brought together the Power of the Center with hepatologists who care for the sick in the CHUS to assess any incidence – the last meeting was exciting. I can assure you, too, after consulting you, that today all drug applications are processed. And it's not only the managers, it's also the clinicians who care for the sick. Ladies and gentlemen, you use dead sick people for political debate. And they do because they know the Council won't deny them, because patient data protection doesn't allow it. I, as a medical professional, have respected professional secrecy for more than 30 years, so even if I had access to any personal information of the patients, I would never use it in a debate on these characteristics, nor as a member of the group that supports the Government, nor if I were a member of the opposition. Of course, they won't listen on this side of the bench to wish anyone with a disease, no matter how much a political adversary he is. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u108	Thank you, Mr. Núñez Centeno. Replica from groups authors of the non-law proposal. Parliamentary Group of Alternative Left Gallega, Mrs Solla. Mrs. Solla, from the stairs, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u109	First, thank the opposition groups for the support of our initiative. Obviously, as they will vote individually despite the fact that the text is the same, we will also vote in favour of the initiative of the Galician Nationalist Block. Mr. Centeno, the debate of "and you more" is unbearable for the people who are in that rostrum, who are out there and who are suffering from disease. You can't tolerate it. You're talking about what we use names. I don't know what names, because they haven't given sick names here. And you're doing it is using criteria you don't know that, "and you and more," as if we're debating something that isn't people's life and death. Do you think that could be done? You're a health professional. I'm scared that health professionals have that kind of speech. Because we're talking about health criteria, because we're talking about people's lives and deaths, and because you can't come here to defend something that's indefensible, which is the attitude that the Central Government is having, as well as the Greek Government itself, does not make use of its health competences. We are pleased that more drugs – by the way, in private, non-public research – continue to be produced, and obviously they are going to change the criteria, there will be a need to update them because new drugs will appear and more applications will appear. But that's a very gross excuse to say that right now, or justify that right now, you're not giving treatment to all the people who need it and justify the delays we're having in that access to drugs. You brought your ready intervention. But I've already said – and the other opposition comrades told him – that it was the platform he had to warn the lady advisor that the criteria they were applying in Galicia were more restrictive than in the rest of the state. Fourteen days took us to react and modify those orders. So that kind of argumentary is indefensible, I don't know, I think for any human being, but I think it's more serious than a healthcare professional. And the subject of the files... by the way, you say they haven't been lost. Case files have been missed. And they say they're going to work so that it won't happen again, but it's already the second time. Do you believe that people who are told that there is a treatment that can cure them can live peacefully when they are denied and still above plan the shadow of obscurantism, that they lose their treatments to hinder access to them? Do you think the answer you're giving here is normal? You didn't say whether or not you're going to vote for this initiative. And I repeat – I don't know if I said it before, but I'm going to say it now – you have committed yourselves to supporting these initiatives. You'll know which side you're on, whether you're on the patient's side or whether you're on the side of profit with health rights and human rights.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u110	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u111	It became clear to me that they are going to vote against, unless you tell me otherwise, that they don't even look at me. That is to say, they will vote against, with which it is im-pre-sentable. Because when you give the little boy a few minutes, voting against this initiative, they're going to be voting against speeding up medication for people who don't have time to wait. That's what you're going to vote for with your no, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party. Look, your demagogy has no end. He started his speech by saying that you are in favour of patients being treated with clinical and non-other criteria. Look, the initiative that today defends the Galego Nationalist Block, which is the initiative that has moved us to the affected platform, says: "Insult the Greek Government to address the Government of Spain to ensure access to new therapies for patients with hepatitis C who need it, and that it is produced according to medical criteria." Why do they then vote against this initiative? What we're asking is that they be medical criteria, actually, and you say one thing, but they're going to vote against it. Impressible, they're businessable. And then he says that the Galician Parliament urges the Greek Government to immediately dispense in hospital pharmacies, to have medication, and to be dispensed already and not to be delayed. And they're going to vote against it! We are facing a political debate. I again deny Mr Vázquez, it is a political debate. Because we are talking about political priorities, not a technical debate, political priorities. And the People's Party is going to vote against it because it's very clear what its political priorities are. And their political priorities are legislative measures to rob workers of their rights, to change the Constitution, to pay the banks first, to steal Galician savings, to tax amnesties. And they're not capable of agilely activating legislative measures so that pharmacists have the sieve in the mango and have millions of benefits instead of the benefit to people's health. That's the priority you're going to vote for here today. The priority of the banks, the pharmaceuticals, the upper ones, in response to the needs of the people, in the face of the needs of the people who are dying. And to say they're dying, Mr. Núñez Centeno, it's a reality they suffer every day, and it's not political about it. They would do political voting, for good! if they took steps to prevent those deaths. If you took action and voted in favour of what we are presenting here today, they would do good policy, not bad policy, what you do. With which I, of course, show here today, on behalf of the BNG, my perplexity that they are able to vote against medical criteria that precede them and that immediately dispense drugs, which is what the initiative calls for. You, there with your conscience and what they vote for.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u112	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. We are now debating the following non-legislative proposal. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. The people of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr Agustín Baamonde Díaz and seven other Members, on the realization by the Greek Government of the actions necessary to progressively implement multilingual education in the educational centres of Bachelors degree, vocational training and other post-brigatory teachings
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u113	This motion for a non-law amendment by the Joint Parliament Group and another amendment by the German Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group was tabled. [[(G.P. Jointly, at the initiative of its Member and Spokesman Consuelo Martínez García, in the light of Rule 161.2 of the Rules of Procedure of the House, submits to the Bureau the following amendment to this non-legislative proposal.Additional amendment A second point should be added in the resolution with the following text: "2.- To present before the Galician Parliament, before the establishment of the Bachelorate, FP and other post-religatory teachings, the evaluation of the results of the multilingual implementation at compulsory education levels."]] [[(G.P. At the initiative of Mrs. Anne Belén Pontón Mondelo and Mr. Cosme Pombo Rodríguez and in the light of Article 161.2 of the Chamber's Rules of Procedure, she presented to the Bureau the following amendment to this non-legislative proposal.Replacement amendment:The resolution must be replaced by the following:"The Parliament of Galicia urges the Council of Galicia to comply with the Language Standardization Act, the Charter of Europe of Languages and the General Plan for the Standardization of Galicia. To this end, the Galego Government will adopt, at least, the following measures in the educational field, in at least, in order to promote the normalization of the language of the Galician language:- it will repeal the Decree 79/2010, for multilingualism in the non-univers university education of Galician university education and will develop a new decree that will comply with the following measures set out in the General Plan of Standardization of Galician Language:- in childhood education: to establish an educational offering in Galician language in pre-school (0-3 years) and in child language education in the non-univers university education of Galician University of Galician University of Galician University of Spain; to set, at least, a third of the weekly teaching hours in Galilee; to establish, at least, a third of the pedagoful teachers's teaching hours in Galilee; to ensure that the educational stages of the context and evaluation of the language of Greek Standardization of language is followed and the language of the predominant language of language of Greek language of language of Greek language education:-]] For the defense of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Piñeiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u114	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, people who listen to us from the stage. We all know that one of the main chronic deficits in our education system has been the weakness of learning in foreign languages, especially compared to other European countries, where, for example, English is already considered more basic than a foreign language. From the University Education and ordination Council and from the People's Parliamentary Group, we believe that we must use all the instruments and articulate all the political strategies so that our children, boys and girls can prepare themselves for the challenges presented to them by a globalised society, a society in which multilingualism will contribute to better labour integration. It seems to us that this multilingualism, which today is an advantage, will be essential in the near future for the development of our societies. Galicia is also lucky to be a bilingual community where Spanish and Greek allow us to communicate with a large percentage of the world's population, more so if we take into account the proximity to the Lusophony. But we believe that it is essential to continue progressing in the learning of other foreign languages. Aware of the challenges presented to our young and young people and within the overall strategy of the Education Council, which since 2009 has made an integral commitment for educational policies aimed at seeking educational quality and giving future solutions to the eves that presented our educational system, that is where the Council launched the plan for the empowerment of foreign languages, with a main objective for non-university education in Galicia: to contribute to the ability of our student to become competent in the two official languages of our community, in both languages, without avoiding the need and promotion of foreign language learning, especially in English, and not only from the curriculum but through other training programs. In this framework, the Council proposes for the coming years the objective of significantly increasing competition in foreign languages. The general claim is three bands. First of all, our students reach, at the end of their school education, skills of comprehension and oral expression and written in a foreign language that enables them to be an independent user in it, as well as progressively equip the teacher with the teaching and linguistic skills needed to achieve such training of the student. But we also want to involve families by promoting their collaboration and participation in the process. To achieve the intended objectives, the Galician foreign language empowerment plan sets out a series of measures and actions vertebrated into three axes: that's one, educational centers. That's where the bilingual sections are, the transformation of bilingual sections into multilingual centers, the provision of conversation assistants, visiting professors and official language schools. In axis two, of pupils, training activities in foreign languages and international educational programmes. On the third axis, the teacher, permanent teacher training and international education programmes. As well as cross-sectional actions, with actions aimed at promoting the Foreign Language Plan, evaluation, recognition and accreditation of language skills, and monitoring and evaluation of the plan. The development of this plan, in primary and in ESO, is supposed to have a remarkable expansion of bilingual sections, conversation assistants, and the creation of multilingual centers, in which, starting from the balanced use of the two official languages of Galicia, it has been introduced by introducing a third language as a vehicle language in teaching, thus enabling the student of Greek to have access to a more plural education. In this progressive implementation, substantial increases in student participation have already been managed; that is, in this course it has already reached about 85,000 pupils, meaning that four out of every ten students in compulsory education already benefit from this plan. Nearly 80% of publicly funded centres, with compulsory education, participate in these actions, and almost 18% of publicly funded centres are already multilingual; and more than 62% have some bilingual section. We have several data that tells us about the increase in language learning in primary and ESO. All the above shows a great opportunity for our students who have been implemented in recent years. The People's Parliamentary Group believes that it would be of great interest to extend this methodology of learning to Bachelor's degree, vocational training, and other educational levels. We think it is advisable to deepen the language management between post-obrigatory education students, especially for those who are at the forefront of university studies, where the use of foreign languages for access to specialized knowledge, bibliographies, etc. is increasingly common. As an impetus to the students' needs, today's Popular Parliamentary Group submits the following proposal: "The Galician Parliament urges the Galician Parliament, by taking advantage of the LOMCE's regulatory development process, to face those steps needed to progressively implement multilingual education in the Galician educational centres that provide Bachelor's degree, vocational training and other post-obligatory teachings." It would be interesting if since the opposition they had joined this bet on language learning from teaching, which has already been welcomed by the Greek society once it has been implemented in primary and compulsory secondary education. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u115	Thank you, Mrs. Piñeiro. Joint Parliamentary Group. Mrs. Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u116	It says this non-law proposal that the People's Party submits that urgency is motivated by the need for Parliament to position itself on the progressive implementation of multilingual education in the Bachelor's degree, FP and other mandatory teachings. The People's Party is urgent. This is the most urgent thing the People's Party has at the educational level. Go away, ladies and gentlemen, shaking. When the urgency should be in conducting an evaluation of the process and the results of the implementation of plurilingual education at mandatory levels, which we still don't have. He says the People's Party in his explanatory statement that Galicia is lucky to be a bilingual community. It is enough to say that in spite of the government of Mr. Núñez Feijóo. But besides this statement, it's a real fallacy. Communities are not bilingual. People are bilingual or trilingual, not communities. If the Greeks and the Greeks stop using our language, Galicia won't be bilingual, because it's not by definition, that's because, despite the People's Party, and despite a dictatorship that has banned it for years, the Greeks and the Greeks are committed to maintaining our language. In an increasingly globalized world, the freest and most intelligent part of humanity is increasingly attached to the richness of differences, to cultural diversity. To preserve the land's linguistic and cultural wealth is the same as preserving ecological or landscaped wealth for the future. In the case of Finland, which only Finnish has been co-official with Swedish since 1920, before it was a family language, whereas the important language was Swedish, the Finnish education system exemplifies the characteristics of a bilingual and multilingual educational model. A huge deal about the effective promotion of the cultural languages of minorities, including the Sami, which speak 7,000 people. The gross domestic product for education is 5.8%, and in Spain it is 4.39%, with an increase in Galicia by 0.07%. While Euskadi, for example, increased by 1.22%, or Catalonia by 6.86%. 97% of education in Finland is carried out in public centers and free of charge. All students finish compulsory schooling by dominating four languages: Finnish, Swedish, English and a fourth optional language. Iceland is exactly the same. Icelandic has only been an official language for 60 years, and it's only spoken in Iceland, where 300,000 people live, less than in Vigo. However, Icelandic children are studying in Icelandic as their main language, but they also learn Danish, English and German or French. Official data shows that the diglossia is leaving Welsh as a residual language, the Bachelor's Degree and other levels of teaching are becoming less and less familiar with Greek. In the face of the beating down of the Greek speakers and the competition in the automatic use of our language – only to see what happens in the student's language selection in selectivity – and the exclusion situation in which our language is falling, is brought to this Chamber as an emergency measure a plan for the empowerment of foreign languages. It's about facilitating the external mobility of our boys and girls. The urgency invoked notes with the desire and lack of resources and measures that implement the use of Welsh in the classrooms. Hundreds of Portuguese-Palestinian graduates are unemployed; teaching in English and Spanish is not considered a bilingual section. It's been a while for the Italian Union, a language that connects us with the lusophone world, it's a shock. It comes to evaluate the use of language, and how the use of language on the radio and television in Galicia is deteriorating, or the use of Spanish in the debates of that entity. Is it the English level of our teachers, and our students of these teachings, enough to make this change? It is a verifiable fact that the current language model does not guarantee the student the actual equal possibility of conditions of having a practical and sufficient knowledge of both official languages. So – and as time runs out – we consider it necessary to strengthen the teaching of other languages with more resources and more teachers, since there are 400 English interns in unemployment, a reduction in the ratio of students, but never to undermine the equality of opportunities among our students. That is why we are presenting this amendment, so that, before and before we proceed with the implementation of the multilingual education measures in the centres of Bachelor's degree, FP and other postobrigatory teachings, if we present in this Parliament for its debate a study, an assessment, of its implementation in compulsory education. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u117	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u118	Thank you very much. I confess that I had hoped today that the People's Party would withdraw this initiative. I also say this because, even though we tabled an amendment to this non-law proposition, I am 100 percent convinced that the People's Party is not going to accept it. In any case, I don't know if it's a bit illustrious, I thought this morning, when I read that the president of the board asked the new advisor for a change in language policy, that we could trust something in the President's word. However, he himself managed to deny himself this morning and to show us that, far from wanting to move or modify something in relation to linguistic politics, the only concern the People's Party has is to extend the model. The truth is, it's grotesque, when last Sunday we saw a demonstration where thousands of people went out on the street again to defend the language, to denounce the genocide that is being committed against our people, to demand a new language policy, that what the People's Party is proposing to us today is that and to show us a model that is a failed model and that is part of the problem we're talking about today. A model that, moreover... Welcome even if it's late, Counselor. Of course, he's taking bad habits to be his second day in office. I am grateful that you arrive at this moment because I think it is important that you listen to the debate that is taking place in relation to this language, because your group is proposing that, just the key piece that the People's Party used to dismantle a minimum policy for linguistic normalization, rather than being modified, be extended. And it is made by creating two false dichotomys. The first is that it seems that for the People's Party there is contradiction – and so he wants to expose it in Galician society – between learning languages and promoting the Greek language. That's a false dichotomy, because we're in favour of people knowing how many more languages are better, but that can't be done by causing most of society to give up their language, and that's the false dichotomy that you imposed on us. And they also impose on us a model that, from an educational and pedagogical point of view, is proving to be a failure, because the question is: Why is the People's Party failing to comply with the own decree of multilingualism as regards the assessment of linguistic competences? That, by the way, in that area they are also failing to comply with what the Law of linguistic normalization says and the Statute of autonomy itself in relation to the promotion of the Greek language. You don't want to evaluate the effect this plurilingualism decree is having. They did not want to evaluate it, and even rejected the offer made by the three Greek universities to really evaluate what was happening in the Welsh education system in connection with this decree. And they don't want to evaluate it because they know the results are disastrous for the Welsh language, which, say what they say, is not in their best time, is in their worst moment. It seems to us, of course, that it seems to us to be a genuine disincentive that you come here to tell us that you never knew so much German, that there was never so much German. But if the German is worse than ever in his history! But if we are the only territory of the Spanish state that loses speakers, and they tell us it is an individual problem! No, it's a problem of language policy that happens. It's a matter of language speech, which is the only thing you're trying to do is to win over Greek. It's a problem they've abandoned any promotion action in the Greek language. It's a problem that we have a public television that increasingly uses Spanish, both on the radio and on the television itself; a television that doesn't offer a quality children's programming in the English language, that there's no freedom of choice here. And here there are discriminations against the language that the president of the Union does not just ignore them, it allows them, it tolerates them and encourages them.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u119	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u120	So what we say is that there is a very important responsibility of the Government. I already know that the People's Party will not accept our amendment today, but zero that it would indeed be a gesture that would give credibility to the current Councilman of Culture, and that it would not simply place him as a post sitting on a chair which has absolutely no positive action for the sake of Greek, withdrawing this initiative. Because withdrawing this initiative means that you're willing, at least, to question what you've done...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u121	Mrs. Pontón, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u122	... that they are willing to listen to what is being asked from the Royal Galaga Academy, from the Council of Culture, from thousands of citizens who leave the streets in Compostela to defend the language; and, above all, from dignity and respect to Galicia. Because the worst thing that's going on is that you, in the middle of this moment, are told that the English language has never been better.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u123	Please finish, Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u124	It's just that you consider the Galicians and the Greeks stupid and laugh at them in their face. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u125	Thank you very much. Parliamentary Group of the Left Galician Alternative. You have the word of Mr. Ramón Vázquez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u126	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning to all and to all. We were talking before people survived, and now we're going to talk about language survival. And I would like to start in this sense by criticizing the Bureau in qualifying the urgency of this initiative and justifying this urgency. When, of course, five years after the decree of multilingualism had been passed, basically asking for its application on this initiative for the only justification that could have been that this weekend – just two days ago – there was an absolutely mass demonstration in this country that forced the Government to do one of its usual image-washing. That's the urgency that justifies this initiative. But there's something equally remarkable that I would like to say, and that perhaps passed this morning unnoticed at the heat of the debate with the president of our country. The president of our country, nothing more and nothing less, asked a question at the time of his office. He wondered today why the Greeks, who knew how to speak Greek, didn't use it. That's the big question our president asked us. The answer is very simple, it is studied by ESO's second-class boys, in the bachelor's degree, in their institutes; the answer is called diglossia. It's been studied since 1959, in which Ferguson coined this name, and it's called that, even children aged 14, 15 and 16. And what's the diglossy? Diglossia happens when, with two languages in contact, one of them has the status of a language of prestige, it has reserved the fields of use of prestige, and ultimately it has a consideration of superiority over the other. Which is so obvious, our president ignores it. And this is what happens in our country, where for historical reasons the Spanish has been reserved a language condition of prestige over Greek. And that's why it happens – I tell you, Mr. President – that many speakers express themselves in Spanish when they go to a trial – because they have no remedy left. And that's why a lot of Welsh people have to go to the movies and watch Spanish movies -- because they don't have any choice. And that's why many English-speaking children and children have as their mother tongue the Greek but they learn in Spanish and play in Spanish in the courtyard of their school. That's motivated by the diglossy. And in the face of this obvious scenario, in the face of an obviously diglossic scenario, Greek society recognized the need to bet on linguistic normalization. And for that reason, Galician society has approved a Linguistic Standardization Plan with the consensus of all parliamentary forces, to normalize the Greek language and its use in all spheres; also, of course, in the field of teaching – as it cannot be otherwise –. Because they understood that he had to be given differential treatment, that he had to protect the English language, in order to guarantee his survival. We are now talking about a language in danger of extinction, ladies and gentlemen. And what did the German Government do? What did Mr. Feijóo do? What did the Counselor – today present – do? For all this would be skipped above, to fly that minimum consensus through all the air and, by a handful of votes, to pass the decree of plurilingualism. And what did the decree of plurilingualism do? For in practice equate in teaching the treatment of Spanish, German and English, or the foreign language concerned. Reduce Greek to Galician foreign language category, exactly what you did. Thus, chapter IV of the decree establishes, where it reserves one third of the educational burden to the foreign language, one third to the Greek language and one third to the Spanish language. Mr. Counselor, this is a very funny thing to do. I'm telling the old councilman, because it happens to me like in the case of the monarch's succession, I've had a king to have two, and now I feel like I have two advisors, we're caught! And now, five years after the decree has been passed, four years after the multilingual centres have been established, they bring an initiative in which they seek to develop...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u127	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u128	...the multilingual centers at the bachelor's stage and other kinds of teaching. Something that already says the articles, on the other hand, something that already sets out articles 7, 8 and 9 of the decree. So I have no knowledge of why it is necessary to do what the decree says clearly in its articulated. And something totally unacceptable. The spokeswoman of the People's Party spoke of data that has already begun to show better results in learning foreign languages. I use the data, I ask, where are they?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u129	Finish it, Mr. Vázquez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u130	Because you repeatedly refuse to present the memory that sets out the transitional provision that you have to present on the results of the decree. Where are those results? I'm done, Madam President. We are not going to support this initiative. We do not support his decree of plurilingualism. We don't agree with his son-in-law of harmonic and scientific bilingualism from any point of view. In addition, the only thing you're getting is a process of replacing English with Spanish in all areas of use.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u131	Thank you very much, Mr Vázquez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u132	And we don't agree with that. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u133	Thank you very much. Socialist Group. Mr. Docasar.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u134	Very well, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. Counsellors. There are two advisors, Ramon is right, we have to fight together. The People's Group today brings the debate in this Parliament with an urgent initiative which is, at least, surprising. Surprisingly, at a time when there is a deep discomfort over the situation in which the Greek is crossing, and a few days later – it has just been said here – of a great act in Santiago in defense of the Greek language. Surprisingly because you have to introduce something new to postobrigatory education without assessing with a minimum of rigor and transparency the done in primary and secondary education. And also surprising, Mrs. Piñeiro, for wanting to cover up with this debate the inability that you have to seek a linguistic consensus that has been broken unilaterally on your day, to possibly win a handful of votes, regardless of the damage caused to a key piar of our culture: the Greek. Madam Piñeiro, the socialists of course that we share the need to enhance the study of languages in our youth, I would miss more! The different thing is that we agree on how to do it; there we have the discrepancy. Changing stays in England, Ireland, the United States or Canada by mini-courses, Mr. Vázquez, of a week's English at the Pearls never seemed – nor does it seem to us today, Mr. Rodríguez – the best option. Changing stays in foreign countries by imparting certain subjects in English, French and German by non-specialist teachers does not seem to be the best option for learning languages. To think that by delivering lists of vocabulary in English, French or German in plastics, music or physical education, you are seriously enhancing multilingual centers, it's at least a coat of hair. We would support more ambitious plans, plans that will make it easier for students to stay in foreign countries during vacation periods. That's where families are sent with economic means, and it'll be for something, Mrs. Piñeiro. Stop making up the powder and the wheel, because they're already invented. They put in place serious and rigorous projects to improve the language skills of students, and do so without prejudging Greek. They provide the educational centres of the human and material means necessary to be able to provide with guarantees the classes of foreign languages, in schools, institutes and language schools. They seriously potentiate the study of two foreign languages, as is indeed done in most European countries. Make it easier for language professors to continue training to update their knowledge. They make it easy for students to stay in foreign countries and not in the Pearls, so some do business. Make it easier for students and teachers to exchange. Continue to increase – that if it is a good idea, Mrs. Piñeiro – the presence of assistants of conversation in schools and language schools; and do it, please, by controlling your work strictly done. You don't allow the fraud of foreign languages teaching non-specialists, now that it's fashionable to impart related subjects for the sake of which I don't know what efficiency. They don't allow language classes for more than 30 students per class. They provide the audiovisual media centers and allow them to be used by those who have them. They allow us to open up hearings in schools and schools. Put enough economic resources so students from middle and humble families can access foreign language stays. They expand the number of centres that give international bachelor's degree in Galicia, and they do not only in large villages. Mrs. Piñeiro, in order to do things like these that I just told you, you would have the support of the Socialist Group. For occurrences, so that it looks like they do what they don't do, for propaganda and for bombing or for harming the Greek language, for that you forget about us. And we don't forget that it was you who wanted to load the so-called Erasmus scholarships, because it's not a ballad theme to say that 40% of the budget allocated to this chapter, in the last two years, by the central government. And they reduced 2,328 the number of beneficiaries. It is not to be welcomed that, as language immersion stays in foreign countries, they continue to spend EUR 1 million on the Pearls. I don't think we are, by nature or by divine punishment, more clumsy than the rest of the Europeans in this matter. Frankly, Mrs. Piñeiro, you have a great contradiction on this important subject. Foreign languages are important for the formation of our youth. We potentiate stays abroad; we potentiate the continuing training of our teacher; we improve audiovisual equipment of the centers; we continue to expand the presence of conversational assistants, but we do so with controls. Let's take care of how the English language deserves, and let's tell students and families how important it is to know several languages today. I insist, in order to do things like those I have just explained to you, the Socialist Group would be delighted to collaborate.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u135	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u136	For occurrences, for some to do business or to cover up bad consciences, it doesn't contain with us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u137	Thank you very much, Mr. Docasar. Group author of the non-law proposal. Mrs. Piñeiro has the floor. Please give a voice to Mrs. Piñeiro's chair.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u138	Thank you very much. First of all, Mrs. Martínez, tell you that urgency is given because it seems interesting to us that it is set in motion for the next course, and the sooner it is done, much better. Look, I didn't make it very clear whether you think Galicia is bilingual or not, because I think it read a little bit and it doesn't look very clear to you. What I have to tell you... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u139	Mr. Beers. You don't have the floor. [[Mr. Beiras Torrado pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Would you like a second call to order? Mrs. Piñeiro has the floor. Mrs. Piñeiro. [[Mrs. Piñeiro Martínez speaks words that are not perceived.]] Mrs. Piñeiro, continue.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u140	Thank you very much, President. I told you, Mrs. Martínez, that your amendment would condition what has to be a natural continuation in language learning in the education system. Parliamentary times and school times are not coincidental, and what you propose governs the process. But don't worry, the board has already explained...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u141	Mrs. Martínez, a call to order.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u142	Madam President, I hope I can have enough time to be able to reply to the groups, but good. I'm telling you to stay calm because the board has come to explain many times the progress of its measures implemented and will continue to do so. Mrs. Pontón, I will not withdraw the proposal, not the law, but that, after his exposure, I reaffirm much more in his suitability, much more. Moreover, today I have come to understand to your spokesperson that the claim of the Galician Nationalist Block is to extinguish the Spanish in Galicia. So it seems to us that it would be to deprive the Greeks of the surplus that we are supposed to be bilingual. You don't add up, you don't even stay, you're about to split up, you're about to split up right now. But, well, all this... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u143	Excuse me a moment, Mrs. Martínez. Mr. Beiras, you have a second call to order, and I remind you of what a third means. Continue, Mrs. Piñeiro, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u144	All right. It's a little bold to say also that the results of the plan are disastrous. So, then, because every year there's more demand from educational institutions. [[Murmurs.]] You'd have to explain to them whether they're interested or not. Here you are, find out what you want to vote against this proposal. Mr. Vázquez, we don't speak... Madam President, Mr Beiras has just said that this Member is an idiot. I refuse to continue in these circumstances.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u145	Mr Beiras, Mr Beiras, I believe that the honourable Member deserves a public apology, because I do not... Mr Beiras, I repeat to you that he has two calls to order, and the third means that he has left this Chamber. [[Mr. Beiras pronounces words that are not perceived.]] All I'm asking is for you to rectify because here I think no one deserves an insult, and Mrs. Piñeiro... You don't have the floor. [[Murmurs.]] [[Mr. Beiras pronounces words that are not perceived.]] [[Mr. Jorquera Caselas asks for the floor.]] Mr. Jorquera, what do you want the word for? In this case you haven't, no, no... Mr. Jorquera, I'm talking. [[Mr. Jorquera Caselas speaks words that are not perceived.]] [[Mr. Jorquera pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Mr. Jorquera, I'm talking. Mr. Jorquera, I call you by order. [[Mr. Jorquera pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Mr. Jorquera, you have no word. [[Mr. Jorquera pronounces words that are not perceived.]] You have no word, Mr. Jorquera. Mr. Jorquera, second call to order. Mr. Jorquera, second call. Mr. Jorquera, I beg you, when I don't give you the floor, don't speak, that's first. [[Mr. Jorquera pronounces words that are not perceived.]] And I don't think the article is being fulfilled because you ask for the word, so I... because I am presiding over the plenary and I have the ability to decide. [[Applause]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] So I repeat to you that you have two calls to order because of your lack of courtesy and respect. [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] Voting of non-legislative proposals
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u146	And now, if you think so, we shall proceed to the vote. We are going to vote in accordance with this plenary session, because, as you know, there has been a change in the agenda. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] We will therefore begin to vote on the proposal from the Parliamentary Group of the Gaga de Left Alternative at the initiative of Mrs Díaz Pérez and Mr Solla Fernández, to which no amendments have been tabled. [[Murmurs.]] We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. by Da Yolanda Díaz Pérez and Da Eva Solla Fernández on the position of the Galician Parliament and the action to be carried out by the Government of Greece on the work shifts proposed at the meeting on 21 November 2014 for staff enrolled in the support centres dependent on the Labour and Welfare Council. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. This proposal is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u147	We voted for the Parliamentary Group of Socialists in Galicia at the initiative of Mrs Acuña... please do so... I think you said you accepted the amendment of the Galician Nationalist Block. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] We vote. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in relation to the state of public health in Ourense. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. This proposal is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u148	We voted on the proposal of the Galician People's Parliamentary Group, at the initiative of Mr Balsairo, who, if I am not mistaken, said that he accepted the amendment of the Left Galician Alternative as an addition amendment; that he accepted points 2 and 3 of the Socialist amendment and rejected the amendment of the Joint Group. So, if you think so, we are voting on the initiative with these additions. We vote. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. People of Galicia, on the initiative of Mr José Manuel Balsairo Orol and seven other Members, on the demands to be made by the Government of Greece to the Central Government and the European Union in relation to third countries which do not comply with the requirements laid down in the European Regulation on illegal unreported and unregulated fishing or IUU fishing. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 64; abstentions, 7. The voting is positive. This proposal is therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u149	We then voted on the proposal by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, on the initiative of Mrs Gallego Calvar, who said that he did not accept the amendment of the Joint Group. We therefore vote on the initiative as presented. We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da María Carmen Gallego Calvar and nine other Members, on the development by the Government of Galicia of a plan of public works in the municipalities of Marín, Bueu, Cangas, Moaña and Vilaboa. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 31 votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. This proposal is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u150	We voted in favour of the Parliamentary Group on the Galego Nationalist Block, on the initiative of Mrs Pontón Mondelo, who I believe said he accepted the second part of the Socialist Amendment; that is, what has to do with the addition of point 8.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u151	Yes, at the request of the Socialist Group, we call for the first point to be voted separately.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u152	But the first point of the amendment is you, right? Ah, okay, okay. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] No, it's just that the proposition... oh, sorry, it was confusing me. [[Murmurs.]] With so much change, I was seeing the initiative that wasn't. Point one, right? Well, we then voted on the first point of the BNG initiative. Vote of the first point of the Proposal, not the law of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo and Da María Teresca Peace Franco, on the measures to be taken by the Environmental, Territorial and Infrastructure Council in the field of procurement of public works to avoid overcosts, ensure transparency and compliance with the applicable legality. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 16; against, 39; abstentions,17. The result of the vote is negative. This point is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u153	We voted for the rest of the initiative with the addition of point 8 of the socialist amendment. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo and Da María Teresca Peace Franco, on the measures to be taken by the Environmental, Territorial and Infrastructure Council in the field of procurement of public works to avoid overcosts, to ensure transparency and compliance with the applicable legality in this regard, with the addition of paragraph 8 of the socialist amendment. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. This proposal is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u154	We voted on the proposal by the Parliamentary Group of the Gaga de Left Alternative on the initiative of Mrs Solla, to whom no amendments have been tabled. We vote. [[Mr. Beiras pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Mr. Borders, Mr. Borders. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Deslogen, please. Deslogen, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u155	Let's continue with the votes. We shall resume the vote of the Parliamentary Group of the Gaga de Left Alternative, on the initiative of Mrs Solla Fernández, to which no amendments have been tabled. No, because the vote was interrupted and I didn't see the results. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I'm sorry. We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. by Alternative Galicia de Left, at the initiative of Da Eva Solla Fernández and D José Javier Ron Fernández, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece to ensure that patients with hepatitis C have access to existing new therapies. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 31 votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. This proposal is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u156	We voted in favour of the Parliamentary Group on the Nationalist Block Galego at the initiative of Mrs Prado. We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da María Montserrat Prado Cores, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece to ensure that patients with hepatitis C have access to new therapies. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. This proposal is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u157	Finally, we are voting on the proposal from the Galician People's Parliamentary Group on the initiative of Mrs Piñeiro, which I believe does not accept the amendments tabled. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. The people of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr Agustín Baamonde Díaz and seven other Members, on the realization by the Greek Government of the actions necessary to progressively implement multilingual education in the educational centres of Bachelors degree, vocational training and other post-war teachings. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 39; votes against, 32. The voting is positive. This proposal is therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u158	We continue with the development of the agenda, with point 5 of the motions, with the request of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia on its own initiative... Mr. Jorquera, why do you want the floor? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Sorry, but he's a spokesman... sorry, sorry, sorry, he's a spokesman and I'm going to ask him... will you let me talk to you for a moment? [[Mr. Jorquera Caselas asks for the floor.]] I don't know what Mr. Jorquera wants the word for and I'll ask him what he wants the word for. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u159	If you give me the floor, I'll explain. Article 77 states, as you know, that in any state of the debate a Member may request compliance with the Rules of Procedure, and for this purpose he must cite the article or article of those who claim to apply. I demand the application of Article 150.2. concerning interpelerations, because the script of the agenda of this Plenary is not adjusted to the one laid down in the Rules of Procedure. I read Rule 150.2, Madam President: "After the intervention of the interpelent and interpelent, a representative of each parliamentary group may make use of the speech, except for that of which the interpellation takes place, for ten minutes, to fix his position" I would like to remind you that the waiver of the exercise of this right has been the result of an agreement between all groups on the organization of work in plenary meetings. As this agreement was unilaterally breached by the groups represented in the Bureau of the House, we demand strict observance of the Rules of Procedure because it protects our right to intervene in the proceedings.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u160	It seems to me very well, and, as you well know, this was an agreement of Bureau and Speaker's Board, and therefore you must make this request at the Bureau and Speaker's Board. [[Murmurs.]] Da María Carmen Acuña do Campo and two other G.P. Members. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the construction of the fifteen new health centers committed to the electoral campaign
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u161	Mrs. Acuña, you have the floor to make your inquiry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u162	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies. Mrs Mosquera, I am very sorry that you were not present in the debate on hepatitis C. I am very sorry that you had forced your group to vote against the proposal that affected them. What I hope is that you had the opportunity to hear what one of the affected said, which is no less than their right to die. Look, Mrs. Mosquera, I am also very sorry that Mr. Feijóo's democratic impulse is one more lie, as evidenced by the fact that you are still here today holding the post of advisor after he himself publicly reproaches her. It's a shame that now that you've remodeled the government by taking advantage of the municipal elections, I haven't moved it to you, too. He makes sure the Town Councils will take the best. Maybe, maybe, the president thinks you're not the best and that's why he leaves her here. It's a real shame, Mrs Mosquera, because every day we discover one more reason for cessala. Yesterday were the statements you made about Lugo's hemodynamics, and today the management carried out for the construction of the new health centers. The truth is, the circus menu has been done for you in these six years with the new health centers! First they changed the number: from 63 to 54, from 54 to 29, then 19 and at the end 15. Then they were the names of the municipalities, in a worrying dance, not to mention that many of these municipalities had spent the money of the neighbors and neighbors on buying the land to give it to the councillor so he could make them the health center. And they finally ran out of money, no land and no health centers. They also changed the form of funding: from PFI to own funds, then European funds and now the final deal, with no funds, because just this year, this year that they say it's when you're going to start doing it, there is no part covered by the Budget Law for the construction of these centres. But, no doubt, the bulk of the cake is that, after so many delays, traps and lies, and to wait for the election year, you go and help build, run, maintain and supply energy from those 15 health centers to Cofely; a company involved in another corrupt plot of the People's Party, exactly in the Punic operation. What a coincidence, isn't it, Mrs. Mosquera? The truth is, you have no limit. Look, Counselor, let's not resign or cease, let's review the facts. I remind you that in the memory accompanying the first budgets, in 2010, Mr. Feijóo's first budgets at Junta, as you are already manager of Sergas, a relationship was collected – he read textually of 54 health performances corresponding to 51 health centres and 3 CAR - Morrazo, Vigo and Lalin - as investments to be made in that first legislation, amounting to 115 million euros and through public-private collaboration. In the same memory it was ensured that, of these 51 centres, 23 would start by the year 2010. But it ended in 2010 and Feijóo did nothing and gave no explanation, only a press release, in December 2010, ensuring that half a million Greeks would have, from the end of the year, a new health center that would be built in 14 months. But curiously, Mrs Mosquera, the following year, in 2012, again the budget law modified the commitment of the previous year and said that in the period 2011-2014 they would be built, and would also be put into operation – I insist, textually collected this, 63 new health centers, using traditional funding formulas and new formulas. For that same year, 2011, the budgets raised a commitment to the construction of 19 centres amounting to 47.5 million. But it also ended in 2011 and Feijó did none. Changes in number, in funding, and even in the names of the municipalities where these health centres were to be built without Feijóo – I insist on not giving a single explanation. They passed all the first legislation like this, from dance to dance, to get to those 19 centers, where, by the way, they included some who are now, in the second legislation, totally missing. By setting a very close example, you could quote Conxo's, right here in Santiago, for not listing all those, Mrs Mosquera, who disappeared from 63 to 51, from 51 to 19, from 51 to 19, from 19 to 15: Melariño, Aldan, Cedera, Fistera, Ribadavia, Moaña, The Street, etc. At the height of the purpose, Feijóo even came to use the construction of the new health centers – which, by the way, he did not do – to justify the deployment of the trees. And in June 2012 they gave us the following argument. It assured me that the drug-saved man with the cooperage would be able to raise no more than 19, but only 15 health centers, plus the expansion of Salne. And as Mr Feijó's first legislation was completed without making any health center, the lies continued in the 2012 electoral program, where the PP again promised the construction of 15 new health centers in the first half of 2013, with an investment of approximately EUR 33.5 million. It passed the first semester of 2013, surprise!, and Feijóo didn't do any. It passed the second semester, surprise! and Feijóo didn't do any. In 2010, in 2011, in 2012, in 2013 and 2014 Feijóo did not do any, but during all those years the announcements and lies continued. And now, Mrs Mosquera, after so much time and so much dance, you are assured that you will have 15 centres for 21 million European funds, but they do not appear in the Budget Act or the European funds or, of course, the own funds necessary for co-financing. Besides, for that, they started with strange tenders. Strangely enough, they've been deserted most of them often. And you know why, Mrs. Mosquera? Because you wanted to privatize even before you built. Thus, until that suspicious adjudication in which construction and management are given, but also the maintenance and energy supply of the centers – I insist, even before building them to the Cofely company, involved in the Punica plot, for almost 8 million euros. You'll understand that this whole mess demands a lot of explanations, Mrs Mosque. And the first is that in 2010, in 2011, in 2012, in 2013, in 2014, in the budget splits to do the health centers, you didn't do them, and now, in 2015, that in the Budget Act – I insist that there is no budget split to do these works, you start doing them. Tell us also why they haven't done it before, Counselor. If we had the needs of the new centers and if we had the money in Europe, why didn't they do it before? Or maybe we should ask the question backwards. Is that the reason to do it now is that there are municipal elections in May? Is Feijóo using the construction of the health centres paid with European money to favor the People's Party electorally? He, Mr. Feijóo, the promoter of democracy? Well, it wouldn't look very good.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u163	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u164	Besides, as it's 2007-2013 ERDF funds, and we're already in 2015, don't you think we're going to have deadline problems? I know you asked for a two-year extension, but I also know, Mrs Mosquera, that it was not necessary, because it is intolerable that with the crisis, with the unemployment figures we have in Galicia, Feijóo decided to have the European money in a box, year after year, until the municipal elections arrived. But, above all, Mrs. Mosquera, you'll have to explain to us how after so much dance they end up giving a portion of the cake precisely to a company involved in a corrupt plot. We're waiting for your explanations...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u165	Thank you very much, Mrs. Acuña. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u166	...Mr. Counselor, neither dismissed nor terminated.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u167	The health advisor, Mrs. Rocío Mosquera, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u168	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, gentlemen. In the afternoon we'll have a question about hepatitis C and we'll be able to keep talking about it. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Acuña, we are working, and we will continue to do so this year 2015, to modernize the infrastructures of the health network of the Galician Health Service, specifically of primary care, because we are convinced that we have to improve the assistance provided to citizens and the work environment of our professionals. In the case of these 15 health centres we are referring to today, I have to clarify or I have to say, firstly, that the process began with the tendering of a contract that had as object the provision of energy performance, the maintenance and maintenance of buildings and facilities of these health centres, but also included the drafting service of projects, which was not done before this date – it was not done at the time of the bipartite, although the centres were already engaged – and also included the drafting and optional direction of work, as well as the coordination of security. This tender was published in the Official Journal of Galicia on 10 August 2012, and subsequently, in accordance with the score obtained by the companies, on 10 June 2013 at the recruitment table, a technical recruitment table, as cannot be otherwise, agrees to raise the contracting body's proposal for the award of the contract in favour of Cofely Spain, S.A. By Resolution of 16 June 2013, the contracting body proceeded to adjudication, and on 6 August of that same year the contract was signed for a period of 8 years and an amount of EUR 10,909,229,31. This is the contract to which it refers, a contract, of course, legal and published in all its phases in the Official Journal of Galicia, in the profile of the contractor of the Galician Health Service. As I said, the contract includes, among other things, the drafting of the basic and executional projects of health centres that were not made, and that were the health center of Villarrodis, in Artexus; that of Buño in Malpica; that of Galeras in Santiago; that of the Snows in the Chapel; that of the Couto in Ourense; that of Barbados in Valenzá; that of Panxón in Nigrán; that of Oia; that of Tui; that of Ares; that of the Temple in Cambre; that of Pontedeva; that of Gondomar; that of Marín and that of Culleroedo. I want to make it clear once again, because I said it in this House, that this contract has nothing to do with the actual execution of the works, but with previous issues such as the investment and recruitment of the drafting services of the projects, which, I repeat, were not done and are indispensable for the bidding of the centres; the optional direction of works; the coordination of the safety and health of the centres that were to be built and the maintenance and maintenance of buildings; the installation of energy and performance supplies of these centres for a period of 8 years – and also included the Salnés hospital – since its operation. I mean, in no case were we talking about the construction work of health centers. Cofely has developed the execution projects and has been progressively delivered to the Directorate-General for Economic Resources of the Galician Health Service. The technical services of that Directorate-General carried out the supervision of these projects and, after obtaining their visa, the effective bidding process for each of them was initiated. The procedure and time limits for the tendering and the adjudication of these works, as cannot be otherwise, are being collected in the recast text of the Public Sector Contracts Act. The dates for publishing tenders in the Official Journal of Galicia were as follows: that of Panxón, 27 of 2 of 2014; that of Tui, 3 of 4 of 2014; that of Buño, 24 of 4 of 2014; that of Galeras, 8 of 5 of 2014; that of Couto, 8 of 5 of 2014; that of Oia, 8 of 5 of 2014; that of Marín, 4 of 6 of 2014; that of Villarrodis, 28 of 5 of 2014; that of Gondomar, 27 of 6 of 2014; that of Cullerodo, 6 of 8 of 2014; and that of the Temple, 3 of 11 of 2014. The projects of Pontedeva, Ares and The Chapel are under supervision, and it is already supervised and pending bidding of Barbados. The current situation of the centres is: Nigrán-Panxón are starting the works on October 10, 2014, with a twelve-month run period. The adjudicatory company is Works and Services Gomez Crespo, and it was the best offer. Santiago Galeras, started the works on November 5, 2014, with a run period of 17 months. The Adjudicatory UTE, Constructions Orega plus Works and Services Gomez Crespo, and it was also the best offer. Tui, started the works on November 28, 2014, with a run period of 14 months. Adjudicatory UTE is CCC, S.L. More Taboada and Ramos, and also with the best offer. Marin, the works started on 3 February, with a period of 14 months of adjudication. The adjudicate company is Dragados, with the best offer. Listen, the work was also started on February 4, with a period of 9 months running. The law firm, Works and Crespo Services, better offer. Malpica-Buño, started the works on February 9, with a period of execution of seven months. The Orega Constructions adjudicate company, also with the best offer. The Couto, signed the contract on February 2, the forecast of adjudication is 14 months. The Adjudicatory, Roads and Constructions plus Petrolan Veiga, with the best offer. Gondomar, signed the contract on January 31, 2015, with a twelve-month run period. Corsán Corviam, with the best offer. Artexo-Villarrodis, signed the contract on 5 February 2015, with a period of 14 months of adjudication. The adjudicate company is Copcisa, also with the best offer. All these adjudications have been and are published on the website of the Galician Health Service. There are room adjudication pending, the Temple and Cullered; and auction pending, Barbados, The Chapel, Pontedeva and Ares. These fifteen health centres represent an investment for this year 2015 of EUR 20.3 million, corresponding to finalist ERDF funds that are already being progressively incorporated. You can't bid a health center or anything, in the public service, if you don't have funds, Mrs. Acuña, you can't bid. And they're going into their bid, in addition to the 5.3 million euros in the initial budget of the Galician Health Service. For the year 2016, those centres that are not finished, we will finance them with own funds, made perfectly collected in the ERDF's own rules, as well as the two-year extension. It was not necessary to ask them because it is already covered by the ERDF own rules for the tendering period, the periods we have to finish the works, and also the six months we have to co-finance and carry out the works with co-financing. These centers, these fifteen centres, will be added to the twenty centres already finished and put into operation during these years, since 2009, and the nine reformed, as well as the new consultants that we have launched in recent weeks, namely Cotobade and Ortigueira. Among them are going to provide primary care services to more than 300,000 Greeks. This is the commitment we have made. Obviously, at a time of economic situation like the one we missed living, in the worst economic crisis we all remember, we were the ones – the Council of Health and the Galician Health Service – to seek funding to build and improve the health infrastructures and the infrastructures of primary care. Nothing more at the moment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u169	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u170	Thank you again, President. Look, Counselor, neither dismissed nor discontinued, it is intolerable that, after this rosary of lies and traps, you intend to come here and put on medals with the construction of those fifteen health centers. I remind you, 51 centres, 115 million budgeting, funding formula PFI; 19 centers and 47.5 million; funding formula, you don't even know. 15 centres, 33.5 million; European funds 21 million; nothing is known. Tell me, did the budget law show up the shares assigned for the construction of these centers? Yes or no? Look, it's all smoking. And the engagement wasn't with 300,000 Greeks. According to counsellor in 2010, Mrs Farjas, the engagement was with half a million Greeks; I think it's 500,000. But, I insist, all that, smokes, Mrs Mosquera, the only insurance is the addiction to Cofely, for eight million, of privatization, yes, of maintenance and energy supply. It is intolerable that Feijóo now orders to make some center in the vicinity of the municipal elections, when the sick have two laws waiting for their health center. But they also have two legislations waiting for the unemployed and the crisis, looking forward to that economic opportunity that gives the construction of these centers. Unacceptable that Feijóo had the European money collected in a drawer, hoping that the elections would come, while the Greeks and the Greeks suffered the cruelty of poverty, unemployment and disease. Look, Mrs. Mosque, although you're used to not answering our questions, I'll keep asking. And I want to ask you, if you say you've already tried eight -- but only eight -- and it's fifteen -- and the fund deadline ends in 2015, what's going to happen with the rest of the centers? What's going to happen to those assisted centers that haven't started the works yet, as long as you tell us here that they've started? You go that way. What's going to happen with the Chamber and Culleredo centers, auctioned but unadjudicated, are you going to give time? What's going to happen to Barbados, Pontedeva, the Chapel, Ares, who aren't even bids or fines? Aren't they going to be done? Because, as before the elections will not give time, I think then, perhaps, Mr. Feijóo loses all interest in these centers. Besides, I'll tell you something. If the interest in this construction of health centres is electoral, what will be said by the candidates and candidates of the People's Party in those municipalities where, although committed, neither will the new health centres be done nor will the new ones be done: Laracha, Narón, Cedera, Teo, Sarria, The Gudina, Ribadavia, Caldas, Salceda de Caselas, Vilarino, Ferrol, Melide, The island of Arousa, Moaña, Bouzas, Ourense, Coruña, Santiago, The Milladoiro, etc.Is that what you're talking about? Because I have to keep up to 63, Counselor. What will your candidates say in these villages where they have health centers in dire situations, with cracks, with drops, cold, with moisture? What are you going to say in ruinous health centers, that in some cases, besides, they take the CAP, a continuous point of attention, where patients and professionals spend all night and whole days? What will your candidates say in those municipalities where they are still waiting for the local pact? Look, some centers have even insurmountable architectural barriers, but they also have inadequate materials and furniture. By the way, I take advantage of this debate to ask you again for the pediatric camel of the Melide Health Center, where they have the doors stuck to the frames with adhesive tape, but where they also have a pediatric shirt that, when they put the child or the child, they swing. And look, I ask you something else, Mrs. Mosquera, a new shirt, don't you withdraw the pediatrician! Because, as I know how the PP does, how it solves the problems, because I wouldn't be surprised! Look, all this mess you've got with the health centers is another reason, Mrs. Mosquera, for the cessala. So again I repeat the same thing again: goodbye, and close the door on exit. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u171	The health advisor, Mrs. Rocío Mosquera, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u172	Thank you, Madam President. Good day again. The primary care for us, Mrs Acuña, is undoubtedly the axis of health care, and according to this project we have articulated all our actions, both organizational and assistance. The health model we stand for is based on effective, equitable, efficient, safe and quality health care, and other sustainable and solvent. This model is collected in the Sergas Strategy 2014, specifically on two lines of action. The first, in objective 1.1, is the organizational structure of integrated management. With it, we organizationally broke down the barriers that prevented the logical interrelationship, permanent and fluid, between levels of assistance, betting on integrated management, on care continuity and on the approximation of assistance to the point closest to the place of residence of citizens and citizens. That point is nothing other than primary care and its network of health centers. The second objective is 7.3, concerning the construction and reform of health centres. It was aimed at modernizing the infrastructures of the primary care network to improve the assistance provided to citizens and around the work of professionals, and also to be an engine of the economy of the various municipalities where these health centers were being built. According to these strategic axes, we continue to build these new fifteen health centers that I already referred to, added to the twenty centers that we have already finished and put into operation and the nine that we reformed, as well as the two consultants that I also referred to in my first part. And, of course, so we'll get 11% of the population of Greece to have a new structure at their disposal. In an economically difficult moment, as I said, in the greatest economic crisis known, we were able to seek funding to improve infrastructure, not only primary care, but hospitals. We're about to launch the new hospital in Vigo. It will run throughout this year. We will continue to build a new hospital building in the Ourense Hospital Complex, with 22 million euros. We will continue with the project of reform and expansion of the Coruña hospital, with 7.3 million euros. We've already started the reform and expansion work at the Salnés Hospital. We've begun the reform of the Coast Hospital, we've already completed the construction project...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u173	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u174	...and we will continue to work to present it and bid it. But these are not the only interventions planned for this purpose. We also bet on modernizing the provision of medical and communication technology in health centers...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u175	Mrs. Hold on.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u176	...to increase your ability to resolve and to bring as much assistance as possible to the population. And we'll look at that from Melide's shirt, no doubt about it. For the provision of health centres, 1.4 million euros are planned for reforms and acquisitions of health centre equipment during this year 2015. You also told me about the endowment of the health centers. Management measures also contribute to improving the productivity indicators of primary care in the organization as a whole, and I have to thank the professionals once again for their involvement. As examples, we have progressively reduced the number of administrative consultations, so that professionals have more time to care for patients who need it most. We've reduced the urgency of hospitals, increasing the urgency of the CAP. And we also improved the resolution of primary care with fewer referrals to hospitals, more minor surgery and more complementary evidence available to our primary care doctors, as well as telephone consultation. And we will, ultimately, continue to improve the resolution capacity of primary care, strengthening its nuclear role through all the tools that we have available, improving the ability to digest and derive from those patients who need it. Manage, ladies and gentlemen, it's priority. And we had to prioritize health centers...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u177	Mrs. Hold on.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u178	...that we were going to build...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u179	Mrs. Hide, you have a call to order.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u180	...because the ERDF funds we have at our disposal are those we are going to use, and the own funds for cofinancing them are available in the Galician Health Service and the Health Council. And if it will give time – I have no doubt – to build those 15 health centers and to use all the ERDF funds and our own funds at our disposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u181	Thank you very much, Counselor. Mr José Ramón Val Alonso and two other members of the G.P. of the Galician Socialists on the Sardinian Management Plan for the next three years
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u182	You have the floor, to formulate the plea, Mr. Val Alonso.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u183	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good afternoon to all and to all. Counselor, on a personal level, I want to welcome you, and I'm glad you're already sitting on that bench. But on the political level, I have to tell you exactly the opposite. Today the Socialist Parliamentary Group presents an appeal to speak of one of the hundreds of problems facing the fishing sector in Galicia. A sector completely abandoned for its luck by the Government of Galicia. A sector abandoned by the People's Party, which continues to resist the struggles of the crisis, and what is far more serious, the struggles of its policies. Today, Counselor, we're going to talk about some of those policies that do nothing but harm some of the Greeks to the detriment of others. It's important, Counsellor, to tell us what opinion you deserve from this sardine management plan that was published six months ago. It's important that you tell us what your opinion is about changing this management plan published in the Official Journal last January 10 through a resolution of the Secretary General of Fisheries of the Ministry. It wouldn't be too much for you to answer all these questions, because we don't know what you think or what you think of this Mr. Feijóo. All we know is what you did last year at the beginning of the year: to make statements saying that you had no record that the sardine was in bad condition – it is collected in the media – and a few days later you asked for the removal of the catch tops that were being self-regulated in the search sector in Galicia. And from here, all you did was shut up. Mrs. Quintana, I'm telling you that it's important for you to face up, it's important that you talk about people's problems, it's important that you don't hide behind the minister, as you did just two days ago. And I'm telling you this because we missed you and some representative of the People's Group at an Affidavit assembly just a week ago in Porto, and it would be important that you were there to know the real problems in the sector. Because look, I'm going to give you an example, a real practical case of those who are living in the fence sector. I ask you how you would face this year, Mrs. Quintana, this year 2015, if you were the owner of a siege boat, who knows, on the one hand, that you have closed the sardine fisheries until March, who knows that when you authorize fishing for that species you will be able to work for two or three months, and that at most you can capture 2,000 kilograms of sardine per week. As you would face this year, Mrs. Quintana, if I were the owner of that same boat, and in that large division that you defended last year. in the distribution of the garden, he knows that this year he's only got 5,000 kilograms of that species. And as you would face this year, Mrs. Quintana, if you were the owner of that same boat, knowing that, at least, it has a third less chance of fishing for jurelo in Area 8C. How would you face this year, Mrs. Quintana? With illusion? With optimism? Would you really face this year with the certainty that you will be able to save this company? He says yes. Okay. because this is important for you to tell the sector. Yes, yes, it's important that I tell you. I don't know if you're aware of the problem out there, and this I quote to you is a case among many of those that are happening in the sector. Besides, it's not just what happens. Because, what would it look like to you, if you were the owner of that boat, to see how others can fish and who rewards those who have not been respectful of the species, while our ships for many years have done a responsible fishing, self-regulating with catch tops for the sardine, self-regulating with catch tops for the jury, and they are always the most damaged? What would it be like for you, Mrs. Quintana, if in that Sardinian Management Plan, area 8B—almost where Basque boats are fishing—is not included in that Management Plan? How about you? You have made no pronouncement on this matter. And I'm going to give you a data, you know how many kilos of sardine landed in 2013 in that area? 14,000 tons of sardine, practically the same as the entire Spanish and Portuguese fleet for this year in that Management Plan. Does this seem fair to you? Do you think this is justified or reasonable? You bring here, to Parliament, questions and proposals from the Sectoral Commission for the Circle of Galicia, which asked, among other things, to include this area 8B in the Management Plan; you bring here initiatives to assume as your own the demands of that sectoral commission of the siege, and then they do absolutely nothing. Would it not be more reasonable for those 14,000 or 15,000 tonnes of fishing in zone 8B to count for everyone within the management plan, and instead for 50 Basque vessels to fish 14,000 tonnes, than the remaining 400 – which are the sum of the Spanish and Portuguese fleet – to have 33,000 or 34,000 for the whole year? Doesn't that sound much more reasonable, Counselor? Do you think this is normal? Or is zone 8B not Iberian waters, as the Management Plan says? I think you're the one to answer, and that's what you have to tell the sector, Mrs. Quintana. But, of course, you do absolutely nothing and the situation is tremendously alarming. And I'm not going to talk to him about the Jarda division anymore, which is that you defended with nails and teeth last year. You told the sector last year that I was going to do everything possible to change the criteria. It's been a year, a year! and he's done absolutely nothing to change a comma in that deal. You will have to say something about that question – I ask you – because what will the siege boats do when last year we distribute misery among them; and this year, with a 15% less fishing possibility, what are we going to share, Mrs. Quintana? What are we going to share? Of the 519,000 tonnes, which is the TAC established in agreement between Brussels, Faroe Islands and Norway, we are responsible for a very poor amount of 39,000 tonnes; 7% of the total. And those tons, of those 39,000, to the Greek siege correspond to 2,626. And I keep asking you the same thing, do you think it's going to be viable a fishing company, a siege boat, with seven or ten crew members on board, which has 5,000 or 6,000 kilograms of this species for the whole year? Are you aware of the real situation in the sector? Don't think about it because it's reality, Mrs. Quintana. No matter how much he denies it, that's the reality. And we keep saying the same thing to him: it's not sustainable a model that is twice as unfair. First, the sharing of fishing opportunities in Brussels and then the sharing of fishing opportunities in the Government of the State. That's reality, and that's what you'd have to be doing, defending the interests of our ships. Last year I told you I'd be a formidable Basque counselor, and I'll keep it, because that division clearly harms us, Mrs. Quintana. And we, from the PSdEG, ask you to tell us what your position is, the position of the German Government; tell us whether fishing will be viable, and tell us what you went to Brussels last week with Mr. Feijóo. Tell us if you talked about this, which is what really concerns the sector; if you talked about some of the fishing quotas; if you talked about the possibilities of exchange; if you talked about some of the issues that really concern the sector, or just went there to take an empty picture of content about something that we all knew was already settled, Mrs. Quinta. What have you and Mr Feijó been to Brussels? Besides, if you got this that you came to sell here, it was not because of the fruit of your work, but because of the fruit of many people, of many men and women from the sea, who day after day are in front of the demands because they know that you are not supporting them, Mrs. Quintana. That's the reality. Look, Mrs. Quintana, I'm telling you again that you have abandoned all your responsibilities. The sector knows you're not a valid interlocutor, and the example you had last week, they asked for meetings with the minister and Mr Feijóo, you've completely denied it. I'm done telling you something. Do a favor to the sector and do a favor to yourself. Pick things up and go home. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u184	The councilor of the Middle Rural and Sea, Mrs. Rosa Quintana, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u185	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Val, very good morning. I believe that the other day you came very well to go to that assembly in Portsin, since you changed all the questions you had asked in the reply, and I, by responsibility, think I should give you an answer to the questions you were asking in your request for an inquiry, and in the reply I will try to give you an answer to all the things you learned in that assembly of the last day in Portsin. [[Applause]] Mr. Val, as you well know, professionals in the sea world are the first to be interested in responsible management of fisheries resources, for only then can they shield their professional activity in the future. In the design of the strategy that follows for a biological, social and economic sustainability of our long-term fishing, in Galicia and Junta and the sector go hand in hand: the Union and the sector. An example of this is found in the joint work that has been carried out by the Rural and Sea Council, in collaboration with the research sector, through the Sectoral Commission of the Circle, in which all representatives of the sector and the trade unions are represented. From May 26th, until July 14th, both sides designed a proposal for the future of the multiannual plan of fisheries management of the sardine, with the objective of this action being the determination of the technical measures necessary for the conservation of this species, so that its socio-economic development linked to fishing use can be ensured. To better understand the steps taken so far, mention must be made of the situation of the population of sardine in Iberian waters, which covers the fishing areas called 8C and 9A, and where it is admitted that the state of the iberian sardine, according to the latest reports of the CIS, is worrying, and the practice of all scientific information recommends the adoption of measures to recover this species. That's what we have the data today, and that's when I speak, when we have the data from the scientists. The sector itself is conscious and shares this need, after finding in its daily activity that the catch level of this species clearly maintains a downward trend. The main objective is to ensure responsible management of this refusal, which is in poor biological condition, and to lay the foundations for a recovery of this species, allowing an increase in fishing opportunities and the economic generation that is produced with it. As for his first question, of which is the view of the Government of Greece on the Sardinian Management Plan, published last August 14 at the BOE, I begin by pointing out that the order of July 30, which establishes the Management Plan for Sardinia in the Iberian waters, I have assumed an urgent measure of self-assignment to Portugal, which could leave our fleet in a position that is quite disadvantaged. If at that time we have explained that this was an urgent measure and with limited temporal effectiveness, we believe that an exception measure cannot be criticised, because we either stopped a unilateral measure from Portugal, or let ourselves go and we were going to see ourselves subject to a possibility of tac and quotas on the part of the European Union. In spite of this, we believe that this plan has positive and negative aspects, but neither should we stand still nor anchored in the initial arrangement, but we can move forward in its best definition. In this sense, this plan does not take up much of the proposals of the Galician Fisheries Council and that the Union defends, and we understand that the rush made it not possible to insert them, given the limited margin of manoeuvre that the Portuguese action left us. But this plan also brought positive aspects, since we were slowing Portugal's initiative to self-allocate for them 70% of the available fishing opportunities, and also hampered the willingness of the commission to impose a Tac. Since then, in conjuring these two obvious dangers, we must continue to work, as we positively value this measure, in reference to these nuances, does not mean that we are giving up the negotiation of the Management Plan prepared by the Greek Fisheries Council for the entire holding house. I say this because we believe that this plan is more suited to the interests of our fleet, so in that premise we continue to work. As I was saying, we know that this outline of circumstance does not collect much of our proposals, which are the ones that the sectoral commission of the siege has raised and has been drawing up since the six meetings that have been held since last year. These meetings were promoted by the councillor, who presides over this committee, in order to draw up a consensus proposal from the Sardinian Management Plan. We therefore want the proposal to allow the development of the activities of the siege vessels, so that the impact of the management measures is as low as possible, both for the fleet and for all the productive tissue on land that rotates around this fishery. After several meetings, on 14 July 2014 the unanimous agreement was reached and a proposal for a Sardinian Water Management Plan was reached with a wide range of measures, covering, among other things, the scope of the collection of catches in terms of landings, in daily quantities, the establishment of a five-month sealing period, or schedules and fishing times and control measures. But if you don't pick these strictly, you don't mean you can't take any steps towards them and you can't continue to negotiate, because you've seen a temporary halt, or you have a fishing period equal to the entire barn in areas 8C and 9A as we have in Galicia. As for the measures being put in place by the Government of Greece to try to unify this management plan, I mean that we continue to work to meet the parliamentary mandate that urges us to assume as our own the proposal of the Multiannual Management Plan of Sardinia drawn up and approved by the Galician Fisheries Council. With this course we continue to work, in collaboration and contact with the ministry and the autonomous communities of Andalusia, Asturias, Cantabria and Basque Country, as well as with the affected sectors and the Spanish Oceanography Institute, to improve the starting point with which to negotiate with Portugal and the European Commission. Fruit of that work, there is already a little progress that is being made in the January 7 Order, so that the July 30 order is modified, and that brings about substantial changes in matters such as the capture limit, closing dates or download tops. But the most important change is given to the fleet in the way, to whom this fishery is significantly affected, and that with that modification, as was our commitment, it can fish Sardinia and do it counting on its own quota for them, to which I committed myself last year. Since then, the possibility that this fleet of Sardinian fishing has been introduced into the order is that it will do so with a 200-ton coupon, which, with data approaching the sector and the confrries, would amount to more than an average annual catch in the last ten years, which is 179-ton annually. I know some have already raised their voice against this assignment, but I want to look at this figure in the light of that comparison, because many fleets would want for themselves a quota of any species 10% higher than half what they've been fishing for in recent years. In addition, it must be borne in mind that this quota, coupled with the flexibility criteria which allow the European Union to achieve; it should be borne in mind that the modification of the order allows to accumulate for the following period of the quota which has not been fished, thus making it possible to compensate for a few more years of capture with others less. However, we try to provide ourselves with the best situation, within the difficulty, for our fleet, seeking with that greater fishing quota for it. Finally, we are trying to prevent the Commission from putting us in a TAC. As regards the view of the Government of Greece that, with the measures being taken in the search sector, it can ensure its viability, I have to say that these measures are directed precisely to maintain the viability of the fleet of the siege and other arts, since we understand that regulating and ordering fisheries is the best formula for achieving maximum economic and social performance without altering the environmental sustainability that they so limit us. In any case, I believe that you – who was responsible for this advice – can appreciate perfectly, if we go in the right direction, if we take into account, taking into account the special case of sardine, the global count of the quotas of the main species of the siege as are the jury, the yard and the anchor. In this case, the global availability of these species in zone 8C and 9A increased by 52% from nearly 65,000 tonnes to almost 99,000 tonnes. If at that time some didn't see any problem and the gas oil was at prices that doubled the current cost, I think it must even be more viable to continue fishing. So, I think with these measures we're going in the right way, because the other option, already tested by those who preceded us in the Government, only brings less value and more penalties for one species, the garden, which exceeds Spain's annual quota for this year in three species I've just quoted. With those figures, each one must draw his own conclusions and see what can be done and where we walk. We are faced with a situation that is complicated, but I think, only from realism and the management of fishing, can we go ahead. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u186	Thank you very much, Counselor. Mr. Val, replica round.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u187	Look, Mrs. Quintana, it's good to learn, it's not bad to learn; that's why I'm going to the meetings to talk to the sector and learn. It would be very nice for you, Mrs. Quintana, to go to the meetings to learn. It would be very nice of you, Mrs. Quinta, to tell you the truth. It's not bad to learn and listen to people who know this, Mrs. Quintana. [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] Look, you come to Parliament today simply to pass the procedure, to tell me what that sectoral committee agreement says in June, which we know perfectly. I asked you a few questions in my first speech and you didn't answer any of them, either, Mrs. Quintana. I'm telling you again, for some time you've given up defending the interests of the Welsh fishing; for some time you've given up, Mrs. Quintana. I repeat the same question I asked you in my first intervention. If you were the owner of a siege boat with those questions I told you before, knowing you have the mermaid fisheries closed until March, which, when you open, at most you can fish two or three months with 2,000 kilos a week. Because you'll tell me, 1,000 tons a week for the whole Spanish and Portuguese fleet, you'll tell me what to do for our ships! Count it, it doesn't come out more than 2,000 or 3,000 kilos a week. And you want to tell me that the situation is better now than before, when you used to have limits of 7,000 kilograms a day of sardine – 7,000, Mrs. Quintana – and now you have 2,000 for the whole week in the best of cases? I don't know if you think we can't read or know any questions. I don't know what you believe, Mrs. Quintana. Look, I think you should explain to us why during this time – a year already – you have done absolutely nothing to modify this Management Plan – that of the garden, already for discount, and this six months (August, September, October, November, December and January) – to introduce some of those issues that you say are coming from the hands of the sector. They adopt initiatives here in Parliament to assume as their own the demands of the sector, and then, where decisions are made and where management plans are published, none of these issues are reflected in the Management Plan. That's reality, and that's what worries people, Mrs. Quintana, that you say things and then you do absolutely the opposite, Mrs. Quintana; and that's what you have to explain to this Parliament. Do you think he's giving the same deal to everyone? Would you think, if I had a boat and saw how those on the side, in Area 8B, could they fish what they want all year round and our ships have limitations? What do you think? Is it not one of the claims that the Sectoral Commission of the Circle has made, including Area 8B within the Management Plan? Think about it. What do you think in that area, in 2013, more than 15,000 tons of sardine landed and for this year we have 19,000 – I repeat it again – for all Spanish and Portuguese ships, about 400 boats; while the Basques – 50 or 59, I don't know the exact figure – can fish without any kind of limitation? Does that sound fair to you? Do you think that question is fair, Mrs. Quintana? That's what you have to answer. For these reasons people are concerned, because you see there's no fair deal and you see that you're looking somewhere else. And come to the minister here and tell him they're going to see if there's any chance of paying the yard penalty with other species. But do you mean to tell me that the punishment of the yard, 10,000 tons a year, will be the solution to the problems? You share 10,000 tons, how much would it touch the fence sector in Galicia if we didn't have to pay that penalty? I'm asking, 10,000 tons, would you put 50 percent on the fence? With the division, 26 to Galicia, 500 tons. Divided among the Greek ships 500 tons; 3,000 kilos more a day, that fish it in half a lance; in half a lance fish the 3,000 kilos. And you come here to tell us that the situation is better! I repeat, before, 7,000 kilos of sardine per day and 6,000 grand of interest, that's the reality. And today, 2,000 sardines a week – a week, not a day!, a week! – and the yard, at best, 6,000 or 7,000 for the entire campaign. And 26 percent less interest rate in area 8C. And I'm not going to talk to you about Zone 9a, the mouthpiece, Mrs. Quintana. 1,7 % of the total quota of boar in zone 9A for the ships of Greece; or 1.7%! 98% for Andalusian ships, and we, the Greeks, 1.7%. And you have... I'm not going to say your face anymore, you have the indignity and the indecency to come here to say we're better than before! Look, I repeat again what I told you in the first intervention. Do yourself a favor and do a favor to the sector. Pick things up and go home, Mrs. Quintana. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u188	You have the floor to close the debate, Mrs. Rosa Quintana.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u189	Mr. Val, I know you're very eager to go home, but, look, the operation wasn't with me, and within fifteen days it was operational again, and that's why I want to defend my sector. [[Applause]] Yes, sir, that's what gives me the strength to go on, look at you! [[Applause]] [[Applause]] [[Applause]] I'll try to give everyone an answer. I think one part I've already done in the first intervention, but I'm going to give you answers to everything. Of course, you always want to raise a black future for the fishing sector, without realizing that you also have a past. And I told you in the first round, from 2009 to today, the fishing opportunities of our fleet have increased by 52%, and gas oil is half a price. Tell me, if then they could live, can they still live? Man, I understand you do! Today we have more reason to be more optimistic, I understand so. You'll see things as you like, but, with 52% more fishing possibilities, I'm still being optimistic. Of course, you tell me I hide behind the minister, behind Mr. Feijóo. I don't know where I hide, I face every day, and we're getting better at our fishing every day. You're talking about zone 8C, 9A, 8B... Mr. Val, do you know that the last one that was achieved was the flexibilization of the fishing possibilities of zone 8B, where we couldn't practically have access, and going from 5% we had the chance to exchange quota of zone 8B, where the Greeks almost couldn't reach, up to 50% to zone 8C, where we could get the Greeks? That's increasing our fishing opportunities. So we are looking for flexibility so that our fishing opportunities are as wide as possible. [[Applause]] I don't like it, Mr. Val, that you're talking about here for 10,000 tons of garden! Home!, say you, that with those policies they applied, of continually misleading the sector, they were able to put him in a sanction in 2009 and in a sanction in 2010 that leads us to be paying 10,000 tons of yards... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u190	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u191	...in the years 2012, 2013...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u192	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u193	...2014, 2015, and so up to 2023, 10,000 tons year, which are almost more than we can manage to fish. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] That, Mr. Val, is really unfair for you to say here. [[Applause]] That's unfair, because it was administration decisions that now have to pay for the sector itself.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u194	Mr. Val, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u195	And let's say you send your nose here! And he also says we went to Brussels and I don't know what, because it was you, and I don't know who to solve. I'm going to leave the Madam President here, so that she can pass it on to you, a letter that I received from Commissioner Karmanu Vella. Where he says, among other things, "I would like to thank him for the report he has sent on the use of the way in Galicia. We have also received detailed explanations from the Spanish Government on this issue. In particular, the letter in which you sent this report is in the hands of my services, and the relevant information contained therein is contributing to encouraging the debate and inter-institutional negotiations on the final outcome of the Commission proposal." This is done by sending scientific reports, by scientific follow-up by administration technicians, and by providing it to community institutions. That's how they fix things, not with pictures in newspapers. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] The Management Plan we assume as our own, the result of the work of the Sectoral Commission for the Research of the Galician Fisheries Council. And as we assume it as our own, we're working to get that Management Plan to go ahead. Even today, the representatives of the sector are gathered with the representatives of all the autonomous communities. Tomorrow there is a meeting, where the representatives of the sector, and the administration of all autonomous communities, with the General Fisheries Secretariat. We're working with the Spanish Institute of Oceanography and, once we've reached an agreement in Spain, we'll also consider it before the Portuguese authorities and the Portuguese sector. Because we want an Iberian sardine management plan that prevents the European Union from imposing any kind of sanctions on us. Mr. Val, don't have the slightest doubt that I won't waste a minute in time. My time is devoted to defending the interests of the primary sectors of Galicia, in this case the fishing sector of Galicia. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u196	Thank you very much, Counselor. Interpellation by D. Antón Sánchez García and Da Yolanda Díaz Pérez, G.P. of the Galician Alternative, on the Galician Rural Development Plan 2014-2020
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u197	You have the word, to make your inquiry, Mr. Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u198	Good morning again. Counselor, we are glad that everything was fine in that operation you couldn't. You know that here always, despite what they can think, we separate what is staff policy. At all, we never put those issues into question as personal matters. We're talking about politics, let's be clear! Even though sometimes in politics we have to make brave personal decisions to vote on things, or to impose on the votes of the parliamentary group that supports most courageous decisions. As it was not taken today in the case of the sick of hepatitis C, those who are given a price to their lives. That's where courage went! Those are personal decisions, so we always say that there's always freedom to say yes or no, there's always freedom. And he didn't come to vote for Mr Feijóo, because he didn't want to see him vote against saving his life to the sick of hepatitis C. I think it's a very dangerous precedent to start talking about economy to prescribe drugs to people. It's a very dangerous precedent, because there we can get to places that we didn't get before we got there, that we couldn't get there. Having said that, we said once again that we separated the staff from the politician, that we never did, he was mixed up, and we spoke again about the Rural Development Program, because we talked about it here, but we came back, because we gave a vital importance to rural people in Galicia, for their future; it seems to us an opportunity, as we do not tire of repeating. It seems fundamental to us to take seriously the document that will record the main strategic lines of our rural, our agricultural, our mountain, for the next seven years, because even if it is not, surely, spectacular, media or performing, it is a very important matter of substance. We believe that this document should be analysed on the basis of the current reality, the evolution of recent years, and that a shared reflection should be made with society, with political parties, with social organizations, agriculture, with all the agents who live day by day in the countryside, with those who know it, and it seems essential to us for various reasons, Counsellor. We think it is essential because without the involvement of these people, policies in rural areas cannot succeed, if that is what we want, if there is success, because there is a future in rural areas, because you are not going to rule forever in this country. And, as we have already said in the Land Law, let's say again in rural areas: there are policies that have to be adopted with a broad political and social consensus. And, therefore, we attach so much importance to the participatory process, to the involvement of rural social agents in defining these policies. We said it a long time ago, we said it in September: the observation document - of 414 observations - sent by the European Union gives us the reason; it gives us the reason for what we already said and of what was obvious: there was no such participatory process. Why, Counselor, didn't you? Because you think it's a secondary thing not to. It said that data should be analysed, based on the current situation: the end of the dairy quota system, the abandonment in rural areas, the problem of fires, aging, loss of agricultural area, etc.; perform an analysis with correct data. The amendment to the whole of the document sent by the Galician Union to Brussels, which is the 414 comments and which is an amendment to the whole, has already been said that the information provided and the evaluation of the previous period is very faulty. I cannot specify all the measures in which it is said that there is information that is not true, that is not rigorous, and yet above all the measures proposed in the previous period are not evaluated. So we've started off from looking at the previous situation well. And in view of this reality, what we think would have to do as a responsible government is do a broad period with a process of participation, involving many people; as I told you, it's essential. It's not done, it's not done. The proposals that have been made have not been made since this proposal which I have been repeating to you. The processing you've done is a simple bureaucratic processing that bets for a critical continuity, with which, of course, we disagree. What we don't know is motivation; if you look positively at the evolution of recent years in rural Galicia, if the data on the aging of the agrarian population – which I repeat over and over again, 60% of the population is over 60 years old, only 5% of the population has less than 60– are for you something normal, positive, a natural evolution, say it. Not for us, it's a problem for us; Galicia's demographic problem for us is a serious problem. The aging of Galician agrarian population is a serious problem, and that's why we have to give different recipes from those that have been given so far. We have to be honest about what country we want, we have to be honest about what country we want. If you want an empty rural area, focus the population on the AP-9 axis, tell them; if you want a low-value forest sector, which is poor job creator, say so. If they don't mind closing farms and aging our agricultural sector, tell them; let's be honest about what the future is, and judge citizenship. You refuse to do this honest debate, you hide the Rural Development Program from society so you don't participate. You are doing this, and the European Union document is coming to the fore, and we have already said it. This European Union document completely destroys the document sent there, even questioning the professionalism of those who did so. It even talks about improving the presentation of the document, there is no true data on water quality, there are contradictions about ecological agriculture, surface data, etc. There are several examples of evidence, for example – which we have already announced – that we have already announced – that we have already announced – of an absence of an analysis and concrete measures to address the impact that would entail the end of the quota system; there are several evidence evidences, for example – that we have already announced – a lack of an analysis and concrete measures to address the impact that would entail the end of the quota system; there is no ecological agriculture as an opportunity; there is not considered to be an opportunity; there are many implications for information on youth and young people's incorporation policies; and there is, once again, an analysis and concrete measures to address the impact of the quota system, to reissue new observations on whether these responses are correct or not; there are no specific measures to develop the energy efficiency efficiency sector; there is no specific action to develop the energy efficiency sector; there is no mention of a question which should be a basic pillar for rural development policies, which are renewable products, knowledge is essential for a country that has the potential as a country that has potential – there potential – there is no potential – there is no detailed product; there is no detailed in the sector; there is no sector; there is not explained how the use of use of using forest; there is not the use of using of using of using tools and the use of using of using of using of using of energy and energy, and energy, and energy, and energy, and energy, and energy, and energy sectors, and the use of energy sectors, and the use of energy, and there is not explained; there is not explained how they are to develop, and the use of energy, and the use of energy, and the use of energy, and the use of energy, and the use of energy, and the use of energy, and the use of energy, and the use of energy, the use of energy, and the use of energy, and the use of energy, and the use of energy, and the use of energy sectors, and the use of energy, and energy, and the use of energy, and the use of energy sectors, and energy sectors, and energy sectors, and energy, and energy, and the use of energy sectors, and energy, and energy, and the use of energy, and energy sectors, and the use of energy, and energy, and energy, and the use of energy, and the use of energy, and the use of energy, and energy, and So, I ask you, Counselor, why didn't you do that participatory process, why didn't you? I don't know if you're going to tell me that the participatory process consisted of two meetings, a meeting two weeks before sending the document to Brussels; I don't know if this is a participatory process for you. I'd like to know what they're going to send to the European Union, justifying that there was a participatory process, when in other RDPs a memory was sent with a relationship of meetings, content and final conclusions. Why isn't that participatory process done? What will you do now before answering the European Union? Will you call social agents? Will you try to do – even if it is late, bad and drag – that participatory process? Do you consider that the latest evolution of rural Galicia is positive and that that is why they bet on a document of critical continuity?...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u199	It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u200	Why not include a thematic sub-program for the mountain, which is at risk of further depopulation, for which you do not apply a specific sub-program? Will you choose to continue with this model of advice, research and knowledge that questions the European Union, continue to dismantle the public, or will you, in some way, complete this information? Are you going to change the goals of incorporating boys and girls...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u201	Thank you very much, Mr. Sanchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u202	...that they don't guarantee relief from the agrarian population? I'm done, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u203	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u204	I'd ask him to answer me specifically. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u205	The councilor of the Middle Rural and Sea, Mrs. Rosa Quintana, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u206	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Sánchez, well, first of all, I apologize if anyone can understand that I don't know that you can differentiate the professional life from the staff; the truth is that I am those people I like to differentiate between the two. But the truth is, when you question my attendance at certain meetings, being the fifteen days I've been on leave... you tell me that you can differentiate your professional life from your staff. That's why I apologize if before in my intervention I made some comment that had been misunderstood. Mr. Sánchez, first of all, I would like to thank you very much for your repeated and intense interest in the 2014-2020 Rural Development Programme, which seems to reflect a common element between you and me, and which lies in the idea that the PDR is an important element for the future of our rural society. I truly believe that we can make our rural area a reference to a place of social and labor opportunities; with which I no longer agree with you is how you ask your questions in this interpellation, because it tells me that we did not make a participatory program, that we did not present a consensus rural development program. Sometimes consensus is complicated, but what I can assure you is that it was participatory. You, in the other interpellation you did me, set as an example the participation of Midi-Pyrénées, where you talked about up to 31 meetings and two meetings where all social agents, trade unions, cooperatives, local development groups, research centers participated. Well, look, it's not more than what was done in Galicia; two general assemblies were made and then opened up the debate between the different agents, and there we have the two meetings held on 2 and 18 July 2014, to which we must add the one of the launch of the PDR, which was there on 7 November 2013. On November 7, 2013, the committee of partners is summoned, the studies we have done are exposed, and from there they are beginning to receive allegations and proposals from 9 rural agents, and I can quote them: Agaca, Asaja, Asefoga, Silvanus, Afrifoga, Sepoga, Association of GDR of Galicia, Agrarian Unions-UPA, Labrego Union, Labrega Commissions, Universidade de Santiago de Compostela, General Secretariat of Equality, and so many and many who have been contributing their proposals, of which we have collected many and which are incorporated into the lines of the program itself. Furthermore, from the first partner committee held in November 2013 to July 2014, in which the following were held, several of the participants submitted no allegations, comments or improvement of the draft programme in all those months. But I think we should leave a difference here too. This current process makes a difference to the program from 2007 to 2013. The day the PDR 2007-2013 was published was when many found out, not only outsiders, but officials of the Council itself. You also asked me if I consider enough the financial effort that the Galician Union is making in this rural development programme to set as an example that is 25% lower than that of Asturias. We must remember that you have always pointed out that if Galicia made an effort equivalent to that of Asturias, the total amount of the RDP would be 1,350 million euros, compared to the 1,190 which are finally planned. But what they didn't point out is how important it is to get feeder funds. We understand that we did it well, because the rest of the funds that co-finance between central government and,autonomous will be contributed to total public spending, and that also enters the dimension of the managed EAFRD, since it is easier to co-finance little than much. That's why I say no one can be told that we've lost funds when we have more than a million EAFRD than at the beginning of the previous program, because of the 856 million in the first program we went to 889.9, which means a 4% increase in times of restriction. We believe that it has been negotiated well in the state context, since in the expense of Leader per inhabitant in Galicia it is the fifth autonomous community that the most EAFRD receives per inhabitant. We have EUR 323.9 per inhabitant, which exceeds 86% on average in Spain, which is EUR 173.7 per inhabitant. In addition, I think it is necessary to stress that the maximum EAFRD allocation is therefore autonomous; it is 70% of the total national allocation. It is established by Regulation (EU) No 1305/2013 on the EAFRD, and therefore autonomous communities have different co-financing rates. In that regulation, that allocation is established on the basis of average income, and, returning to the comparison that points to us, Galicia is considered a transitional region and can reach up to 75 %, while Asturias is considered an ordinary region and can only reach up to 53 %. Furthermore, the EAFRD Regulation enables in certain measures of the programme to increase this generic percentage for each autonomous community. And it has to be said that Asturias raises the percentage of feeder contribution to the maximum allowable regulation, 75% or 80% in some measures, while Galicia maintains all measures at its generic rate of 75%. So, what should be a relative higher contribution, 88% higher than Galicia, turns out to be 32%, which shows the financial effort being made in our autonomous community. As far as we are considering introducing after the public exhibition period a thematic sub-programme for the mountain, it must first be mentioned that the thematic sub-programmes are intended for when there are no measures to address these needs, which is not the case of Galicia, which, for mountain areas, allocates a large number of measures and with an important allocation. But I think the question remains whether we expect compensatory compensation to be increased from EUR 91.2 million to EUR 117.3 million in total public expenditure, increasing its overall account by 28.6%. And in the case of the mountain, they go from 58.8 million euros to 70 million euros, which means a 19% increase. In the case of non-mountain areas, from EUR 32.4 million to EUR 47.3 million, with a rise of 45.9%, making the EAFRD spending for both measures from EUR 55.9 million to EUR 88 million, with an increase of 57.4%. It should be recalled in this respect that at the 2007-2013 RDP the initial allocation of European funds for these mountain aid will be EUR 28 million. And since 2009 the current Government of Galicia has been able to increase European funds for these aid by 29%, reaching 36 million euros. If we consider the R & D and training effort enough or the goal remains to be dismantled, I think this is simply responding to the attention that we maintain support for the transfer of knowledge and information activities, and EAFRD's investment in this measure is 8.5 million euros compared to 8.4 in the previous period. As for the dismantling of what we are talking about, there should be only one figure: that of the research and dissemination actions carried out by Ingacal and its centres in the last biennium, 321, to which we must add 23,114 analyses and 848,561 analytical results determinations. With regard to his last question about which are the changes to conquer a greater incorporation of young people and girls into agroforestry that help reverse the dramatic situation of abandonment of rural areas, I would like to start by stressing that we have not diminished support for that line, since the amount of EAFRD that we are aiming at the growth of 46.3 million euros to 50.1 million euros, which means an increase of 8.2 % over the period 2007-2013. Suppose that the figure reaches 5.6% of the total EAFRD received by Galicia, and this percentage is higher than 5.5%, for example, of Andalusia, which includes commitments from the anticipated cessations, and 4,6 % of Asturias. I think this is enough to draw conclusions. But as I was wondering what the changes are, I want to tell you that the aid already in place for habitual housing reform or livestock purchase will be boosted, with certain novelties, how can the increase in the amount of the incorporation premium with respect to the previous period, and that payments will also be made within two periods of time since the boy is installed, to provide liquidity from the first moment, and that new eligible expenses will be considered some cases such as the payments of the social security contribution, as you had come to demand from us. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u207	Thank you very much. Mr Sánchez's reply to the Parliamentary Group of the Gaga de Left Alternative.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u208	It's very difficult to come back again with the question of whether or not there was a participatory process. Counsellor, I do not say so, now I have told the European Commission, that you have not been sent with the information to ensure that there has been a participatory process. But I don't say so, the forest sector, that sent a letter of complaint, and they say it to the three agricultural organizations, that they said there wasn't. It is that at the meeting that a representative of the European Commission came to Ribadumia, or Rivadulla – I don't know where he went – in July, he heard only complaints because there was no participatory process. It's just that a participatory process is not two meetings and the last one to tell them they have a week to file allegations; and as they said they had no time to introduce them, they were given them five more days, which was so, Counselor. It's just that this is like the joke of the highway, when a driver gets in the opposite direction and listens to the radio: there's a crazy driver who's driving in the opposite direction. And he says, "No, everyone." Well, this too. It's just that you're the only one who makes sure there's been a participatory process. Neither the forest sector nor the agricultural organizations nor the European Union... to see how it responds to them. I would like to see if the European Commission accepts two meetings as a participatory process – the pulp as a pet – and I say no more. The participatory process was not done, Counselor. Why didn't you do it? Why isn't the participatory process done? The participatory process is not to bring together a few people one day and tell them: See, what!, what? No, no, no, no. A participatory process is a prior process of information, contact, meetings; it is a work, a serious and rigorous work, which has not been done. The European Union's reply, Counselor, is a tremendous balcony; even the professionalism with which the program was made. I believe that it is the second RDP that most comments have obtained from the European Union. You didn't deal seriously, there's no true information even, Counselor. No, the document says so. You're talking about the increase in the EAFRD's contribution. Yes, but why don't you come here and say that you've dropped 300 million euros the contribution the state is going to make and that, then, globally, we've lost funds? Why? Isn't that right? Isn't that right, Counselor? Of course I do. The state government, the People's Party, is going to give 300 million euros less, we're going to have less money. In R+D+i its bet is the amortization of 130 rural council squares, many of them comarcas agrarian offices. That's your bet on the public system of counseling and research, 130 amortized squares. We've already known, we've seen it over and over again, we're very heavy. We know that when someone retires in agrarian office, they don't replace it. That's the system of exhausting the system. But they also tell him, they tell him: you present an advisory system based only on reporting legal requirements, but, innovation, nothing; you, renewable energy and energy efficiency, nothing; you consider ecological agriculture as an opportunity, nothing. That's 414 comments, which is an amendment to the whole of his policy. You didn't tell me why, by analyzing the data in rural Galicia, you chose critical continuity. Nor did you tell me how they might not even aspire to re-establish the agricultural population in this country. The goal you put on is 2.5 % incorporation, when it's known that more than 40% is going to retire in this period. Why? You've given up on that. Counsellor, you have done a bureaucratic process, and what we intend to do is a process of shared reflection and joint decision making so that, regardless of what you govern – that will not be in government all your life – we will govern ourselves or govern others can have a central trunk so that there are agricultural and forestry policies. Why? Because forest policies are 15-20 years old, agricultural policies, too, etc., and you're doing a bureaucratic process. The document itself says: critical continuity. How can it be critical continuity with the current situation? And how can it be that the PDR – so I say there is no minimum rigority – is sent without analyzing the impact of the end of the quota system? And I'm not saying that, too, to the European Union, the European Commission, Counsellor. I think we have to start with an honest debate. An honest debate means saying why country bets, why rural bets and say or call things by name: when it's not a participatory process, it's not a participatory process. And you're the only one, the only one, who maintains that Galicia has become a participatory process; the only one, and, if not, give me another example. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u209	Thank you very much, Mr. Sanchez. You have the floor, to close the debate, the advisor of the Middle Rural and the Sea.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u210	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Sánchez, you say no; I say yes... the truth is, it's hard to come to an agreement. I can give you the minutes of the meeting. What can I tell you? Look, we launched the issue in November, when even the Community regulation was not even adopted, which said what the partners' meetings would look like – and there are minutes of meeting. And since that date, in November, everything we had made available to the partners, and from there we all started to work; it's true that some with more intensity than others, and some have been able to make claims throughout the process and some have not contributed anything. What do you want me to tell you? Did we all have a little time? Yes, because it turns out that this year was the first year when codecision between the Council and Parliament was very late in publishing Community regulations and there was very little time to draw up both the Rural Development Programme and, of course, to do all the meetings. But as soon as there was, we made it available to everyone... and I've already told him all the allegations that different rural agents have made, and I can give them if you consider it appropriate. I don't know how to show you that there really was participation. Well, I don't know how to say it, because what I can bring is those minutes of the meetings, the meetings that were held around the world, the contributions that each one made. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Most of the contributions that could be incorporated were incorporated, others were already incorporated; some could not be incorporated because the regulation itself prevented it. And, of course, what I would like to say would be serious, because, when it is said, the European Commission itself says there was no process of participation. Man, that's not the case. There's an answer to a question being asked on December 10th, and on December 10th, we asked for information so they could tell us if there was any participation. We got that documentation and we'll see if you tell the Commission that there was no participation and there wasn't... of course, it's all like this... I can only tell you, Mr. Sánchez, that it is very important for us to have a consensual PDR. It is not possible to say that because you have presented 418 – not 414; 418 – observations if you have a PDR. The comments were made to all RDPs in all EU member countries. The PDR's on. Is it a continuing RDP? It is a continuing PDR in the same line as the Community regulation itself, because if you read the Community regulation you will see that it tells us which lines can be changed, which lines cannot be changed and which percentage of money must be allocated to each line according to the execution and the results that were obtained in the previous process. We analyzed everything, we tried to make a rural development program that really energizes our rural, because, you like it or you don't like it – and I think you know me and you know that I also value rural – what we're working on every line from all areas of the Government of Galicia to get us to have a rural with the future. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u211	Thank you very much, Counselor. Institutional declaration
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u212	Before I suspended the session until this afternoon, the groups made me come up with an institutional statement to which, if they don't mind, I'll read: "On November 1, 2005, the United Nations General Assembly, at its forty-second plenary session, reaffirms that the holocaust which resulted in a third of the Jewish people and countless members of other minorities who have died will always be a warning to the whole world of the dangers of hatred, fanaticism, racism and prejudice. And he also decided to designate January 27 as the International Day of the Annual Memorial in Memory of the Victims of the Holocaust, all of them victims of Nazism, among which are also Greek and Greek. The General Assembly rejected – and this Parliament rejects such refusal – any denial, whether partial or total, of the holocaust as a historical fact, and condemned without reservation – it condemns this Parliament as well – all manifestations of religious intolerance, incitement, harassment or violence against people or communities based on ethnic origin or religious beliefs, taking place wherever they take place. The Galician Parliament notes with the United Nations General Assembly that the ignorance and disregard of human rights give rise to acts of abhorrent barbarism for human consciousness. Finally, the Parliament of Galicia, one more year and, in accordance with the letter and spirit of the Declaration of 1 November 2005 of the Fourth General Assembly of the United Nations, calls on the Government of the United Nations to work against the possible outbreaks of racism, xenophobia and discrimination based on ethnic origin or religious beliefs and citizens and their organizations to remain vigilant so that no more a regime like the one that produced the holocaust can settle between us and anywhere in the world. Santiago de Compostela, February 11, 2015." We suspended the session until this afternoon at 4:30. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u213	Good afternoon. We restart the session with item 7 on the agenda, which corresponds to questions from the Government. Question by Mr José Manuel Beiras Torrado and six Members and six other Members of the G.P. of the Galga de Left alternative, on the judicial judgment relating to the selective process for the temporary coverage of 12 workplaces for the Mugardos Emergency and Rescue Group
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u214	To put this question, you have the floor to Mrs. Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u215	Mr. Rueda, as I suppose he knows perfectly, found a ruling in Contentious No. 1 of Ferrol, which still exists – despite the introduction of the People's Party's Tax Law still exists – and which, as I suppose he knows, declares the nullity of the selective process that has been undertaken, above all by a filtration that has been produced directly by a person who holds a high responsibility for reaching the emergencies of this country. In particular, it was the person who is the manager of the Provincial Emergency Relief Consortium, Mr. José Luis Barca Añón, who – according to the magistrate – filtered the members of the Evaluation Committee, and then allegedly filtered the members who presented themselves to those tests, because not only the questions but also the answers. I, if you will, read literally what you say; if you will read it. Mr. Rueda, make sure he gives you something, calm down. I have a sentence in my hand and I'll read it literally. [[Murmurs.]] Tanquilise! What this sentence says is that this person sent an email with the questions and the answers, and says a court – which is not named by Alternative Left Gaga – that the questions were filtered, and concludes the nullity of this process. I suppose you know what we're talking about, and I suppose like me it'll look like this is very serious. He says exactly: "By means of an email, sent on June 5, 2013, one of the vocals of the qualifying court, Mr. José Luis Barca Añón, sent Mr. Diego Seijo Alonso, alternate secretary of the court, the questions of the first proof of the selective process." This paragraph follows: "And by an e-mail, sent on 8 July 2013, the so-called vowel sent to Fr Diego Seijo Alonso the answers to those questions, second work" – said the judgment – "in folio 53 of the administrative file". Well, the sentence is conclusive, Mr. Rueda. You know that person, and I suppose you also know that recently – and I've already told you, although you don't like us telling you about the emergencies of this country – at the bidding request of the service they bid in the province of Coruña, indeed, this person, casually, also hires and creates a new coordinator figure for all the services in the province of Coruña, which, by chance, affects the manager's brother with nothing more and nothing less than the Consortium, Mr. Rueda. He came to say this person that nothing happened because he won the same thing as in the post he was developing, which you know is radically false; he earned 21,000 euros a month and now holding this coordinating post he earns 44,000 euros...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u216	Thank you, Mrs. Díaz. [[Mrs. Díaz Pérez speaks words that are not perceived.]] [[Applause]] Response from the Vice-President and President's Adviser, Public Administrations and Justice.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u217	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Look, Mrs. Díaz, in this case I'm angry and almost pissed off, because if you want to load the mayor of Mugardos or the people of the United Left who rule in Mugardos don't use the Government of Galicia. That's for starters. I don't know if you know who's ruling in Mugardos, I suppose here's the longing to go against a certain people, by the way, making a judge like you always do: you always have the background, the resolution and the judgment, you always say that judgment. [[Applause]] He just did it now, as he always faked the data, as he always read the part of what he picks up here that interests and twists, I say it like this, "Terxiversizing," and as he always falsely accuses a person who didn't do something, telling a lie. That's what you did here, and I want you to record it. Look, the examination of what we're talking about, who summoned you was the Mugardos Town Hall, who voted against having done an investigation commission was the mayor of Mugardos, the Block, and the United Left Councillors to support him. The PP voted in favour of the commission of inquiry and you said no, you resolved against the remedies of the people who considered themselves prejudiced by the decision of the qualifying court. And when an appeal was brought against what the mayor of Mugardos said, it was when the judgment of the prosecutor-administrative came out, which says that the examinations must be repeated. But it was the Mugardos Town Hall who did all this, it was he who said from the first till the last moment that was all well done. But that's the way it is, this question – I'm sorry to tell you, and I have the right to say it after what you say about certain people – is absolutely surreal, thinking how convinced I am that what you want is to harm the mayor of Mugardos and the people who support him; don't use us. Let's read the sentence. Of course, because you read the part that interests you and condemned a person from whom you don't say anything at all the court, who has not been called to declare; yes, you have been called to declare, by the way, the secretary of the court, appointed by the mayor, but that's not yours to say. And what you're saying about this subject is that it's especially relevant to the subsequent e-mail that is sent, and says, "I don't remember if I sent you the answers you asked me for." A court member asks him to ask him to ask for a series of questions and a series of answers, send them and from what the sentence says – read it, Mrs. Díaz, I suppose he does not read it, but I would not be saying these things – is that, of course, the custody chain in the court could have filtered out or not from the court so that a number of people – almost from the Mugardos Town Hall – would have been selected after the selective tests, that will have to answer the Mugardos Town Hall, which is what says nothing happened at all, and the court says yes. And you come here liala, and eventually you shoot people of your own political color. You'll know why, but you don't read us in those trifles. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u218	Thank you, Vice President. Replica, Mrs. Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u219	Look, Mr. Rueda, I'm not stupid, and the mayor of Mugardos has no responsibility in this matter. This is your responsibility, just like what happens in all the GES contracts in this country. And I'm going to read to you – because you're lying, Mr. Rueda, lying – what you rightly say in that paragraph of the sentence you forgot. And he literally says, "It's especially relevant..." – said the magistrate – "...the post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post post- she wants to read in Spanish so that she can understand it – "...electronic that she sends again...". Do you know who sent that mail, Mr. Rueda? What the sentence says is that he sends it nothing but "don José Luis Barca Añón", José Luis Barca Añón. Do you know who it is? Do you know who it is? Send him questions and answers, Mr. Rueda. The question is, why, Mr. Rueda? I'll tell you again: why do you allow the consortium manager to do this, to plug in his brother, to directly plug his brother, at the price of 44,000 euros, and you, who is the public manager of this matter, don't take action, Mr. Rueda? Don't worry, Mr. Rueda. This is happening in all GHGs all over the country, and you know it perfectly, Mr. Rueda. Do you want me to keep reading the spectacular sentence, the levels that curiously reach those people in the selection process, you know what level? Over a nine, Mr. Rueda. Don't take our hair off. And the Mugardos Town Hall here has no responsibility. The responsibility lies with the person who, depending on you as a public official, filters – and has to say why, with what interests – questions and answers. Tell us, Mr. Rueda, why do you allow your brother to plug in at the price of 44,000 euros? Tell us too, Mr. Rueda – who are seeing us the workers of this branch – why do you create that figure in...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u220	Thank you, Mrs. Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u221	Closing time, Mr Vice-President and President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u222	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. Díaz, in English space, so that she can understand me, too, eh, because if she doesn't understand either. He said the sentence – I'll translate it –: "Sorry that Monday July 8th, the secretary of the court" – named by the mayor of Mugardos, and I don't have the mayor of Mugardos here –... Don't get nervous, don't get nervous. [[Murmurs.]] [[Mrs. Díaz Pérez speaks words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u223	Quiet, Mrs. Díaz, quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u224	...I have nothing against the mayor of Mugardos; whoever comes to attack him here is you with this question. I'm saying he'll know why. I suppose there will be other mechanisms in your party. "Sorry that the alternate secretary of the court had asked the voice that made the questions that had also sent the answers to him." He asked the questions because he was asked by the secretary of the court; I don't know whether the mayor is responsible for the command of a concierge in the United Left, for whoever he is, Mrs. Díaz. [[Murmurs.]] After he says, no, it's here the Mugardos Town Hall has absolutely nothing to do with it. Home!, he summoned the evidence, he did the bases, he named the court, he kept the exams and finally by reading the sentence, which I say I'm sure you only read it to attack a person, he says, "Stimulate the litigation-administrative remedy against the resolutions of the Mugardos Council." [[Murmurs.]] It's condemning the Mugardos Town Hall, but, of course, it has nothing to do with the Mugardos Town Hall. Here we're not talking about anything that isn't a person you're not, making a judge and throwing him -- whatever he's in the act -- more expensive than a piano, trying to judge when he wasn't even called to declare, or absolutely nothing. So you work, always in possession of the truth, always condemning people above justice and always disqualifying justice when you don't say exactly what you want, which is almost always. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u225	Thank you, Vice President. Yes, Mrs. Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u226	I ask Mr. Rueda to withdraw.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u227	No, this debate is closed. No, that's not, that's a metaphoric expression. That expression doesn't insult anyone, please. Mrs. Díaz, that expression doesn't insult anyone, it's an expression that is part of everyone's colloquium. No, it's not coming, Mrs. Díaz. [[Protests.]] It doesn't work, it doesn't work, Mrs. Díaz. You don't have the use of the word.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u228	Mrs. Díaz, we don't make a fool out of it. It's not, it's not a matter of greater transcendence. [[Mrs. Díaz Pérez speaks words that are not perceived.]] Okay, Mrs. Díaz, finish it, come on. Next question.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u229	Mrs. Díaz, the debate is over. Mrs. Díaz, please don't ask me to call her in order. [[Mrs. Díaz Pérez speaks words that are not perceived.]] I call you by order, Mrs. Díaz. You have a call to order. Debate is closed. [[Mrs. Díaz Pérez speaks words that are not perceived.]] No, I'm not interested in throwing it. I called her in order and I'm not interested in kicking her, and I'm not interested. Debate is closed. Next question. Question by D. Antón Sánchez García, from G.P. of the Alternative Galaga de Left, on the action planned by the Council of Galicia in relation to the evictions in the area of the Ofimatic Park of the Coruña
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u230	To put this question, Mr. Sánchez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u231	After the president, more expensive than a piano, applied different stripes to removing expressions from the Journal of Sessions, I proceed to the question. It's a metaphor, Mr. President! The urbanization of the Ofimatic Park has a paradigmatic condensation of an urban model presided over by its insatiability, with successive changes of management lacking public interest, tending to benefit certain promoters, their illegalities, with pending judicial judgments, their litigiousness, and, after all, a serious social impact on a group of people affected. An urbanization is a management system that converts into forced promoters, with a high cost of impact, to residents who had no will of such, led to the fatal fate of having their own homes and residences demolished in their vital space in exchange – with high economic cost – of a plot of results intended for steriles in the current economic environment, in a city where there are 20,000 empty dwellings and where there is no other housing policy but to favour private promotion. The redundancies requested by the Council of the Crown in this sector are but the result of a policy of soil and housing lacking public interest, unfair and benefiting from the business of certain actors. Instead of re-ordinating and re-adjusting the sector, the Council of the Crown, for the benefit of the public interest in the demands of citizenship, decides to promote and approve without any changes to the Part Plan, which benefit certain promoters, including to the Galician Union, perhaps to sell subsequently plots to large areas, to increase their value. It's even changed to lower the percentage of reserve for sheltered housing, up to 8%, but it's not changed to keep people out of the street, families that stay in homes. Like, for example, Alvaro and Isabel, Elvina's neighbours were forcibly evicted with fourteen police vans two months ago, who had to see how the housing was demolished where they lived all their lives and where they were born. By force, evicted in a city that – I repeat – has 20,000 empty homes. The Board, Counsellor, cannot stand aside, not only by the fact that it is the largest owner of the sector, with something more than 50%, but by the fact that it was the Board itself, through Xestur, the promoter of the sector, both in its planning and in its management. They are reasons of public interest that motivate the need to proceed with a timely modification of planning to ensure that no more housing is evicted, that no more housing is demolished, that no more people are left on the street on which this threat hangs. What we ask and ask you if you're going to do is something that's possible, there's a solution to develop the Olympic Park without having to put people on the street, there are technically viable alternatives, you've already modified this partial plan to benefit certain promoters: have the Board planned to urge the Council of the Crown to seek a solution so that these people can continue living in their usual dwellings, Counsellor?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u232	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. Response from the Environmental, Territory and Infrastructure Adviser.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u233	Thank you, President. Mr. Sánchez, for his presentation, it seems that this Government of the Union and also the present Government of the Crown are responsible for the situation of the Olympic Park, but the truth is that reality is completely different. And, of course, the Gaga de Left Alternative is not the first to be concerned about this situation, since the current Government of the Union and, of course, the Town Hall of the Crown are offering solutions to those affected by a situation that has not been created by us. The current circumstances respond to an inherited situation and to projects approved by a Government in the Town Hall of the Crown: the bipartisan Government of the Crown. We're facing a process that's been wrong from the beginning. The law itself annulled the bidding of a contract, the contract signed by the former municipal government, for considering the joint bidding of the urbanization plan and the underground parking lot incorrect. And the current Executive had to face a disastrous situation that was created by a Government of PSOE and BNG. And the reality is that the current municipal government is retraining this situation, which is affecting different people involved. I don't know if you know that in the Bipartisan Union, acting at that time, Xestur sold... parcels of the Office when there were sufficient legal grounds that these plots should be reversed. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Of course, a real juridical nonsense and a true fear of the legal point of view. [[Murmurs.]] And also in that year 2009 the Town Council approved the Office's equidistribution project, which did not provide for any reallocation measures, there was no provision for any action. I don't know if you knew. And I don't know if I also knew that the bipartisan municipal government has been delaying the urbanization and plot plan for years for not sitting with Adif. And this, what did it cause? Well, I'm also late for the plot registration. And what caused this in turn? So an additional cost to the Town Hall of Coruña, in the municipal archives, of EUR 4.3 million and also an additional cost of EUR 3 million to cooperatives. What's clear is that this isn't something right now, it's something that comes very far, because of the irresponsibility and neglect of a government where the Nationalist Block of Wales and the Socialist Party were partners. That, of course, is so. We're not the cause of this situation, but we're working with the Town Hall, acting with the highest responsibility, and since the Galician Union, which we have part of the land, betting for the protected housing in the Olympic Park. Because in the lands that are owned by the IGVS we will make and make protected dwellings: 1,136 protected dwellings, 24 already building...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u234	Thank you, Counselor. Thank you. [[Applause]] Replica, Mr. Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u235	Counsellor, you're wrong about your political opponent. I'm not going to join that game, because here we're not in a theatre game where you can defeat me or me dialectically. That's what I miss. I'm here to find solutions for those people, to whom I ask for an answer. And you come to tell me about the political responsibilities of the bipartisan at the bipartisan board at the local level. I'm telling you, alternative left-wing gaga does not dodge that debate, we're not afraid of that debate. Well, said that, let's talk about the solutions – which you didn't talk about – for people. Of political responsibilities, we're going to talk about the bipartisan, but also about the People's Party, which has been ruling since 2011. And since 2011 you have made timely changes to benefit Adif, Gestur, but you refuse to make a timely change so that five dwellings will stand up and people can continue living there. It's technically possible. What I ask you is, why don't you have the political will to do it? Because you're looking for solutions whenever it comes to maintaining business benefit, the benefit of the Galician Union, but you're not looking for solutions for people who have their lives, and it's very important for them to stay in their home and not go to the streets, and still beheads. After seeing in the morning how they dealt with the issue of hepatitis C patients, I'm not surprised that for you there are people who stay in the street and suffer from it is not a factor to be taken into account in the urbanism they develop. Why are there technical possibilities that these five dwellings will stand up and the families living there will refuse to look for those solutions? And then, if you like, I commit myself to demanding all political responsibilities, as if you want us to do a research commission for the last 20 years in the Olympic Park. We're not afraid of that, it's everyone's responsibility, the People's Party as well.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u236	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. Shut up, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u237	Thank you, President. I must, of course, reiterate that the urbanization works were assisted by the former Bipartisan Government in 2011 in a full election campaign, in a day of reflection, without any compensation to be able to occupy the land. Of course, the Town Hall of Coruña had to deal with this situation, indemnifying those affected and resolving reallocations. They joined the affected by offering them municipal housing, taking measures to ensure that those affected by evictions could be as long as possible in their homes. Because I have to repeat that what is a reality is that in the equidistinguishment project – I tell you – there was no reallocation measure at that time, there was no thought of an essential aspect like this subject of the reallocation of the affected. And the timely change that you say, apart from fulfilling a sentence, the recently adopted timely change definitely increases by 50 the number of protected housing. So it increases the number of shelters protected. [[Murmurs.]] And we don't blame ourselves. Of course, we're giving solutions to a problem we've inherited, he likes it or not. And he likes it or not, he continues to influence the inheritance of the bipartisan, of course, now at the Institute of Living and Solo, not only in the Office, of course. The Board after six years since it ruled the bipartisan, we're paying around 40 million euros this year for the debt generated in 2008. And I repeat to you that the goal of the Galician Union is protected housing, 1,136 shelters protected in the fields of the office to be executed. And I assure you that the most obvious concern is that it is a housing worthy of the citizens of Greece and those who need it most. That's how we came to do it despite the budgetary restrictions and the situation inherited from the Institute. And the path of securing a protected housing will be the path to the future. [[Murmurs.]] And from then on, the board of directors will approve a 2015-2020 housing plan, in which, of course, it will be a priority and essential to facilitate access to the home for those people who need it most. In this task we will focus on the actions in this task, of course, we will put all our efforts and in this task of course we will prioritize the investments of the Housing Plan which we will adopt in the coming days.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u238	Thank you, Counselor. You tell this presidency, through the writing they made him come, the withdrawal of the question that appeared in third place. So we moved on to the question in fourth place. Question by Mr Manuel Vázquez Fernández and three other Members of the G.P. of the Galician Socialists on the number of Greek patients receiving the new treatment against hepatitis C
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u239	To put the question, Mr Vázquez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u240	Good afternoon, Counselor, ladies and gentlemen, patients who are with hepatitis C following us. Counselor, when you have a lot of parliamentary activity over many years, today is a day of your wake. And the face of the Members of the People's Party this morning, voting against treatment for patients with hepatitis C, I'm going to wake up for a long time. And I think most of you still don't have the body right now because of what they did this morning. Counselor, rather than ask me, I want to share a reflection with you. We have a tremendous problem in Galicia, I have the advisor, I have the counsellor, but they have over 30,000 patients diagnosed with hepatitis C, which, surprised by, sees how the ball goes on from one side to another, but we can't give a solution to that problem. Counselor, I've already told you that since months ago I asked you about it, but I come today to ask you, in the name of the dignity of the Greek Parliament, of the dignity of all parliamentarians, that we make every effort to see if we can solve the problem to these thousands of women and men who are going through it. You have to assume with me – because you read the press, because you see the TV news – that there is a great confusion, a great distrust and, this morning, we're all checking out, a great cliché. In the morning someone said up there, "Then we just die." It's not true, and you know that not and I too, but it's not worth anything that you and I know if they don't know. Counselor, it's hard to sum up in three minutes everything I have to tell you, but you have to put order in this. You have to pilot a process that gives all the Greek patients security and trust and that marks them a route, that knows each one of them as it is, that will happen and that will happen to you. It's not just saying, we're gonna treat them all. That's not unbelievable because you know they don't treat everyone. But if you order, as Catalonia does, the F4, the F3, the F2, because some can wait knowing that they have to be given time. Counselor, in such a short time I ask you a few questions, not for you to answer to me, but for you to shed light on what's going on: First, how many patients are diagnosed with hepatitis C in Galicia? Second, how many patients are diagnosed with hepatitis C and we know what stage they are at? Third, how many do we have in F3 and F4? Fourth, how many have his hepatologists referred to the Follow-up Commission of Specialists of the Sergas de Hepatitis C? Thursday, how many treatment proposals has the Commission set to administer the treatment to them? And finally, how many patients have been treated with sofosbuvir or simeprevir over these three months that is in effect? Counselor, it's really not a question to pick up...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u241	Thank you, Mr. Vázquez, the questions are asked.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u242	...–ending– it's not a pickup question, it's a question that you have to help the patients and you have to help this country tell them we know what we're...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u243	Thank you, Mr. Vázquez. [[Applause]] Answer from the Health Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u244	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. Yes, this is the third time I've come to answer this question to this House. I'm delighted to come and try to clarify the situation we have, which is not a unique situation in Galicia, or much less, nor is it even a unique situation in Spain. I also greet the patients who are upstairs. Look, since it's not a unique situation in Galicia or a unique situation in Spain, I think we have to look for solutions and we have to find consensus solutions. In the last Inter-Territorial Council – I was there – from all autonomous communities several conclusions, several criteria: One, give the treatment to all patients who needed it according to the criteria developed by an expert commission led by the Spanish Medicines Agency. These criteria are posted on the website of the Spanish Medicines Agency and these are the criteria that are being met in Galicia. These criteria are amended periodically. In fact, the Ministry has just said that there are probably new criteria on Friday on the website of the Spanish Medicines Agency. From that moment on, I can assure you that they will also be fulfilled in Galicia. But it's also true that we have to do it in an orderly way – and you just said it yourself – you can't do it any other way. The second conclusion we reached at the International Council, – I repeat – by unanimity of the Ministry of Health and of the seventeen autonomous communities, is that a strategic plan for prevention, treatment of hepatitis C in Spain had been made. It doesn't seem very normal that there are seventeen strategic plans, the normal thing is to have a strategic plan for the entire National Health Service. I believe, from the information we have, that it is about to finish the commission that is working on the strategic plan, and that is where we have to define measures of prevention and homogeneous treatment for the entire National Health Service, and of course thanks to compliance – I think – and also whether we have to talk about funding. Finally, to say that in this autonomous community, in the Autónoma Community of Galicia, these protocols are being followed. There's a commission of experts that's reviewing one by one all the cases prescribed by the specialists, by the dissective specialists, and anonymously, they evaluate one by one all the cases that come to him, and they complete the treatments that are being put on. Because – I repeat – I think it is fundamental, as in other processes. This isn't unique to hepatitis C, there's, by setting an example, the growth hormone, where there's also a commission of experts that evaluates case by case anonymously, and in some oncoholic treatments it's done as well.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u245	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u246	And this is what is being done in this community.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u247	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mr Vázquez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u248	Counsellor, this morning we check here that the sick people of the C-Gelish hepatitis don't believe in counseling, but listen: it's not worth hanging their shoulders. If you don't believe it, we have a problem, a counselor, and we'll have to make them believe. I'll give you a date. You don't want to talk about numbers, I don't ask for names, I ask for numbers and I ask for numbers. But if you don't want to give the figures, I'm sure you'll give them now, I'm going to give you a figure that's going to surprise you: do you know that in the CHUAC, in the Coruña, there are 70 patients the commission recommended to treat them, and they're still there and they don't give them treatment? I'm asking. This was yesterday. Counselor, there's a problem to get to the commission, there's a problem to report to the committee, there's a problem after you report to the commission with each hospital pharmacy. We have a lot of problems, and it's not worth it, Counselor, telling people... No, no, I ask you, and I ask you since the collaboration of someone who has had responsibilities. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] We, and you, and the People's Party, and all the parties, I'm sure we want this to work out, but you say, you have to put it in order. We can't let 30,000 people live every morning and get up and say, "What's going to happen today?" But that's a crop broth to shake against the creek of the Government and the Council. I ask him and say figures. If we all know, yes, they go to commission 20 a week, 30 a week. And I'm telling you one thing: the members of the commission are very good professionals, but they can't be used parapetly to be hidden in what the commission says. What the scientific studies say, I tell you, there is no need for a commission: 90% of the patients who treat them, they heal. Yes, 90% of the patients treated heal. And everything else, counselor, is very difficult to explain. So I ask you, and I offer you the collaboration of this party whenever you want, we help these patients to know a safety and hope itinerary. In the end, you see – and finished, really – what made Catalonia – Catalonia, eh!, specialist in pressing – healthy: open from January 23rd to F3 and F4...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u249	Thank you, Mr. Vázquez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u250	What is the Ministry doing?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u251	Thank you, Mr. Vázquez. [[Mr. Vázquez Fernández pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Thank you, Mr. Vázquez. Mr Vázquez, the debate is closed. Close the debate, Madam Health Counsellor. [[Mr. Vázquez Fernández pronounces words that are not perceived.]] That's it, Mr. Vázquez, it's over. You understand the question! Yeah, and I got you, too, but you got it. [[Mr. Vázquez Fernández pronounces words that are not perceived.]] No, shut up, shut up, because it's the turn, it's the regulation. I've already given him time because the subject deserves it. No, no, you can't. [[Mr. Vázquez Fernández pronounces words that are not perceived.]] It's not in the use of the word. It's not in the use of the word. Mr. Vázquez, please! Mr. Vázquez, the theme is now closed! Mr. Vázquez, please! We all understand that. [[Mr. Vázquez Fernández pronounces words that are not perceived.]] [[Applause]] And the question is... I think the debate is interesting to all, but a little bit about the times, Mr. Vázquez, that you went through these. Counsellor, your turn.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u252	Mr Vázquez, it is true that this is a very serious problem and that we have to deal with. You asked me for data. And since the commission began operating in 2012, which was when the first drugs were launched, until February 6, 2015, 917 applications for hepatitis C drugs have been evaluated, resulting in 883 acceptance, the remaining 30 did not meet criteria. If we're talking about the last drugs, since they've been introduced, because obviously, before they're introduced they can't be prescribed, 279 applications have been evaluated. Of these 279 were approved 259, i.e. 92.8%; the other 20 did not meet technical criteria. There are currently 68 reports pending; of these, 66 were received in the last week, and only 2 were received at the end of 2014, and additional evidence was requested from prescribers. So I think the committee is doing its job in a very agile way. And I think we have to respect doctors, specialists who are part of this commission, because it's a guarantee of fairness for all Greek patients. And you have to have a guarantee to protect them, and I say to protect them from your own counsellor, the Galician Health Service, to prevent them from having external pressures. And we know what we're talking about. Therefore, I ask, once again, respect for these professionals. Obviously, they are being reviewed, and obviously the Ministry's strategy, would not say the Ministry, the National Health Service, has to mark the guidelines for the treatment of these patients, in a regulated manner, in a homogeneous and equitable manner, throughout the National Health Service. I think it's very bad politics that each Autonomous Community goes for free, and especially on such a delicate subject as this... of course, I think we have to be very sensible and we have to be... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u253	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u254	...a lot of caution in the decisions we've made. And that these decisions have to be clinical decisions, technical decisions and decisions made in a consensual manner – I repeat – throughout the national health system. That's the only way we can guarantee every patient who needs the drugs they need. This is the commitment of the Health Council and the Galego Health Service. You may have the full assurance that we're working on. And, of course, what we don't think is reasonable to use politically these patients, it doesn't seem reasonable to me. And I'm not saying, Mr. Vázquez, that you're doing it...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u255	It's over, it's over, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u256	...but really, I think we should be very sensible on this subject. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u257	Next question. Question from Da María do Carme Adán Villamarín and Da María Teresaca Paz Franco, from G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the forecasts of the Government of Galicia regarding compliance with the Law of Social Inclusion of Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u258	To put this question, you have the floor to Mrs. Adam.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u259	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen; good afternoon, Counsellor. We know from yesterday that the People's Party doesn't like the word "poverty," but unfortunately poverty exists and grows. But we're going to talk about that crack that exists between the papers that talk about poverty and the people who suffer poverty every day. Look, you know it, but I've recently printed here what is Galicia's Social Inclusion Act, where different rights are collected from people who are in a situation of social exclusion. Law which, as you well know, was passed alone by the People's Party, and from the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego we consider to be a small law. Well, still, look at you, you don't do it. You see, Counselor, that today we are still waiting for the following questions: When do you think about developing it?, when do you think about the decrees that give rise to the different sections, both of insertion, that you are not developing, and the transition to employment, Counsellor?, when are the decrees going to be?, when will the deadlines for processing the Risga applications be met? We have followed in eight and nine months, as stated in this Parliament by representatives of the Galician Labour and Social Workers College in the last Equality Committee, Counsellor. When is he going to explain why we continue to hope that it will be fulfilled, for example, that it will be collected with the perception of income and granted by administrative silence? Adopted in Parliament. Counsellor, this law collects in its article 41 that there will be a short processing when requested by women who suffer from gender-based violence. Not developed and not implemented. We had doubts after we were actually locating situations we were not meeting. Asked explicitly in the Equality Commission regarding the fulfilment of this article, the people representing the College of Workers and Social Workers of Galicia stated taxively, and so it was collected in the press – I assure you you are aware of that situation – that the short-term procedure for women who suffer from gender violence was not complied with. Delay in processing, we continue in eight and nine months. Undeveloped decrees, seven months late right now. And the short procedure is not being carried out. Why isn't the Galician Social Inclusion Act developed? Why does Risga continue to have a delay of more than six months, arriving, in some cases – and so documented – nine months? We expect a concrete answer.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u260	Thank you, Mrs. Adam. Response from the Work Councillor and Wellness.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u261	Thank you very much, President. Your Honor, the truth is, not to approve a law that claims its compliance, and I say that something will have to please you. Indeed – as you said – it was a law made by this Government, a pioneering law, and more than a pioneering law is also a law that was developed with consensus and elaborated with the work of social agents. So it's a very demanding law that's being a reflection in the rest of the autonomous communities, and a law that doesn't want to give more than coverage to the most vulnerable people, since they're the priority people for this government. Of course, this, beyond giving him legal coverage, we have to reflect where the governments that we have the competence to do what we have to do, which is in our assumptions. And what you really don't talk about is, of course, the increase this government has made over the years in the game directly linked to the most vulnerable people, that is, people who need social integration income. You know very well that in 2009, because they were budgeted for their political formation, it was 21 million euros devoted to social integration income in our community, and in 2015 – you know very well, I'm convinced – it's 47.7 million euros destined for them. Of course, this is to give coverage to all those people who don't only need it, but also have the right. We do it because we have moral obligation and because we firmly believe it. I mean, we believe that we have to make all the funding needed to meet the income of social integration available to these people. It has increased – as you know very well, and I am not saying it proudly, of course – the number of requests for social integration income over the past few years. In fact, the average is 22% annual growth of the number of applications. If it's true that if in 2013 there were 7,700 applications, in 2014 there were 6,500, which, of course, is a hopeful given. And the law, Mrs. Adam, is not paralyzed, as much as you want, not only because of the fact that, of course, we are responding to people who need it by giving them the income of social integration, but also a good example of this is that there have already been increases in respect of the previous rule. And here's an example: the plugins by cohabitation rose by 15% on average to a family of four members. In the same way, there are Risga perceivers who are already receiving a new rental supplement, which is obviously covered by the new law, and this is possible because the law is being applied. And as you know very well, those tranches that you appeal to depend directly on a decree, a decree that is already drafted, but which, of course, by logic and coherence, had to go from the strategy of Galicia's social inclusion, strategy that was presented last December. This is not only logical...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u262	Thank you, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u263	...but to avoid contradictions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u264	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mrs. Adam.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u265	Thank you, Mr. President. Counsellor, we are very accustomed to discussing with walls on the floating dike, on many aspects, but on the subject of Risk, I do not agree to be constantly debating with a wall like you. I do not accept this because we will continue to bring Parliament in each and every one of the plenary committees what is needed on this subject. Counsellor, do you agree or fail to comply with the law? No, no, no, no. And not because you have a moral obligation, you have a statutory obligation, this law is published. This law recognizes the rights of people who have less, who are not vulnerable, they are poor, poor, even if they don't like the word, even if they want to delete it from the dictionary, these people don't have resources. They ask for Risk and it takes nine months when they get it, because the last report we found is that 41% of the people asking for Risk are denied, they don't give them Risk, because they have the Internet, because they have some kind of work, but at least one or two hours, because they practice prostitution, because they're immigrants without papers, so they don't have the Risk. Counsellor, is it true or not that nine months ago? Is it true or not that women who are victims of gender-based violence, as has just been reported in this Parliament, do not have an express processing as the law demands and as is fair, not moral, the just, as it collects legislation? Counsellor, no matter how much you may feel, we will bring the matter up to this little law, which is not a mirror for anything; this little law which does not guarantee life in the dignity of people, but relieves something. The councils have accelerated all proceedings according to our reports, but you still fail to comply with what we all vote here, that the deadlines set by the law are met, and otherwise they are settled by administrative silence. They've just reported a lot of collectives who, as much as claim that administrative file...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u266	Thank you, Mrs. Adam.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u267	...it's not happening...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u268	Thank you, Mrs. Adam. [[Mrs. Adam Villamarín speaks words that are not perceived.]] [[Applause]] Shut up, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u269	I am glad, Mrs Adam, that you bring this matter to Parliament the times it takes because, of course, what this Government does is to respond not to the needs of these people in Parliament, but to the streets. And to inform you: it is not true, Mrs. Adán, that they are waiting now nine months. We made a very important impulse, not only in funding, but also in people dedicated to processing social integration income, to tell you that, for example, in the provinces of Lugo and Ourense right now there is no waiting list because if you are responding already to January's requests, and to tell you, of course, that in the Coruña and Pontevedra province we are making all possible improvements, not only funding but also resources, to shorten that average, which is now around four months waiting, and to tell everyone we are responding as agile as possible. At no time was this councillor or this Government the ones who deny the crisis or its consequences or, of course, the difficulties that many Greeks are experiencing, Mrs. Adam. And since you want to talk about poverty, which we cannot see, even though we know and we know the evil that many Greeks are experiencing, it's a report that is published today by APN Spain, which places Galicia as one of the autonomous communities in which the crisis has had less impact on its population. What's more, Galicia is under the Spanish average on all the indicators analyzed in the report. We are the community where the most poverty-threatening population has been reduced between 2009 and 2013, that is, in 2013 there are fewer people now in poverty than in 2009. I know that when surveys can somehow show positive data for Galicia, like the current government, what it is, these surveys are not worth; only polls that show negative data, only the opposition uses surveys that show negative data. Look, the most important thing for me isn't to talk about 1, 2, 3, 10,000 people who are at risk of poverty right now, the most important thing for me is that this government is giving them an answer. And it gives the strong fulfillment of a law that has been adopted on the ground by this Government, effectively approved by this single and exclusive People's Party, the popular formation that is in this Parliament, but which counts on the support and development of the social agents, who are the ones who demanded it and who really helped contribute to this legislation, which gives priority to employment. And not only do we do it in legislation, not only do we do it by providing social integration income benefits; you know very well that it was this Government that made the first order available to help hire people from social integration income, that in 2014 it was EUR 5 million that was intended for 600 people who would benefit from social integration income to have at least the opportunity to have a long job for seven months, and that this year we doubled our efforts to have about EUR 10 million over a thousand people, 1,200 people who have the opportunity to work.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u270	Thank you very much, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u271	The law requires and, of course, the...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u272	Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Question from Da María do Carme Adán Villamarín and Da María Teresaca Paz Franco, from G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the measures envisaged by the Government of Greece to prevent the closure of the special employment centre for persons with disabilities of Aspanas Termal de Ourense
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u273	You have the word of Mrs. Adam to ask his question.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u274	Again, Counselor. But this question is not put to her by the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, because here are the workers and the workers of Aspanas Termal, they are here in Parliament and they are also at the door, because they can't all come in, and we today want to bring up two clear questions that these workers and workers are asking. I know that you know this special employment centre in Ourense; here are ourense Members and Members, even a candidate in Ourense. You know that this center is of public utility for its socially essential character, because the people who work at this center could certainly not find a job in another type of company. Because it's fundamental for these people every day, they're going to work at this center, because they're actually doing a socially essential job. I bring here a bag you probably know, but it's one of the many that they do, which is labeled Galician craftsmanship, which they do with interest, with every day. You know this is a very complicated situation and today you have to answer two fundamental questions: Are you going to let this center come in for creditors or put the means not to do it, working together with the company committee, with the workers and the workers to find a solution? This center, which up to three months ago was in a situation of viability, needs about an amount of between 300,000 and 400,000 euros. Do you remember a contract with Enrique Iglesias? For nothing socially essential from my perspective, and allow me to make this comparison because it places us in the place where there is or there is no budget. It's not a mere advertising matter. There's no media here anymore, Counselor. We're talking about whether the German Government can rescue a video clip by Enrique Iglesias, can the Greek Government have 300,000, 400,000 euros, what it needs right now, and the political and administrative will to save this special employment centre, to find that way of solution? Today I ask you here in the name of the Greek Government to commit yourself to the workers and the workers to look for a way in which they don't compete with creditors, and these more than seventy people, tomorrow, last month and next month, have a place to work with dignity. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u275	Thank you very much, Mrs. Adam. The work and well-being advisor, Mrs. Beatriz Mato, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u276	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs. Adam, you know very well and indeed did you say in your speech that I know perfectly the situation in which this Aspanas Thermal entity is located. And you also know very well that the contact and collaboration we have from the Labour Council with that entity and with the workers, with the patronage representatives, is – I would say – daily, if it's not for visits, it's for telephone calls, it's absolutely daily. But I'm not here to give an answer to what are the conversations we've been having since the Council with the workers and with the patronage's representatives, but to justify what was our management to help throughout all these years that this entity, of course, had survived and, above all, everything we've done in recent months. You know very well that it's a reference center as you said in Ourense, but it also has a qualification in which it's declared of public utility, which means that Aspanas Termal, in some ways, is exclusively consecrated to socio-laboratively integrate people with disabilities. In view of this, you will not be surprised that from now on we have been working closely with this entity, a collaboration which, as it may be, has intensified in recent months. Aspanas Termal you know very well that it is a special employment centre, and as a special employment centre it develops an economic and business activity, that is, it has to have a business management that must guarantee its survival. I'm not saying that they have a lucrative spirit, or much less, but it is true that it is a private management of all special centres like Aspanas and, of course, it must also guarantee their financial sustainability. To guarantee this financial sustainability, the Administration is because it is our obligation, that is to say, we have contributed – as you well know – to the financing of 50% of the payrolls of workers with disabilities. With different economic figures over these years, since 2009, where, for example, they received EUR 19,000; by 2010, where they received EUR 153,000; in 2011, EUR 465,000; in 2013, EUR 329,000; in this year 2014, this year, EUR 254,000. Only for 50 percent payroll coverage. In addition, it has to be added that in the years 2011, 2012 and 2013, in the concept of budgetary balance that needed the entity, this board also devoted a total of these three years of EUR 430,000, precisely to help the budgetary balance. Not to mention the commitment of the entire Government, not only of this council, but also of the financial assistance that Igape has advanced to this entity with 600,000 euros of loans, plus 300,000, i.e. about 900,000 euros of auctions. That is, of course, there is a budgetary commitment for this entity to have the ability to go ahead. Until this year 2014 – as I told you – where we are asked again, in addition to all this, the amount...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u277	Thank you very much, Counselor. [[Applause]] Thank you very much. Mrs. Adam's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u278	Counsellor, it would have been better than in my own time to explain here... to answer the questions we asked you, will you let this entity come into a bid for creditors or will you work hand in hand with the company committee, with the workers and with the workers so that the situation can not be done? Because, of course, we're told about the aid that has been regulated by law or the finalist aid that comes from the state, because that knowledge has it here, also documentation where we know what the situation is and that the Administration has an obligation to give those regulated help. But the question is another, because you know perfectly well that there are companies that even stole the ladder, like Pescanova or like other companies, where the Administration immediately committed and immediately put money on the table. And here's what you're asking is, what's the will in this situation, will you get out of here, meet the workers and workers, try to find a solution? You can't blame management, you've got administration to take over the problem and see how it can be solved. Because, if you don't, it leaves 70, more than seventy people, right now with functional diversity, in the street; 70 people with functional diversity in the street, who won't find another job, who will actually be sent to a pension, to help their families. And you're the one who's come here to tell us are the regulated aids that this entity has taken in the last few years. In fact, three months ago, it wasn't the problem you were in today. Today it is much more aggravated by the inoperation of the Greek administration. But, look, I didn't make any criticism of the first intervention, because all we're interested in today's intervention is a commitment from the German Government. Are you these people today in a position to tell them that they're going to save Aspanas Termal's situation or that they're going to drop? I could also set the example...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u279	Thank you very much, Mrs. Adam.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u280	...of artificial snow, there are many more than 300,000 euros...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u281	Thank you very much, Mrs. Adam.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u282	Replica from the Work and Wellness Advisor, Mrs. Beatriz Mato.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u283	Thank you very much, President. Mrs. Adam, I'm not going... because it's been a long time, and I'm going to take everything I need, talking to the institution and to the workers, trying to find the best solution for the viability and sustainability of this entity. And when I talk about the administration's support for this entity, when I say it's 3 million euros, which I've only received from this entity since 2009, I want to link it to the next one. And it is that in 2011 this entity, for the first time, loses 100,000 euros; in 2012 this entity, for the second time, loses 300,000 euros, despite all these public aid I am talking about; in 2013 it loses 613,000 euros, despite all the public aid I am talking about. Mrs. Adán, you will understand that in 2011, in 2012 and 2013 the inoperability of what you are talking about in the Administration did not exist, because we were fulfilling all our financial and collaborative commitments to the maximum, and yet this institution was losing. Losses again in 2014, for which we are helping not only with their sanitation with these 250,000 euros, but also to contribute to the development of a feasibility plan. A feasibility plan which, of course, must comply with this entity, in this case of sanitation, precisely to seek and find a solution that guarantees the viability of this entity. So you don't try to put the inoperative hole on top of this administration that's been running within this entity for four years now. And what is obvious, for everyone's sake, for the sake of the more than seventy workers who are there, to those who have contact – I insist – daily, and when I say "daily" is for many months, for everyone's sake, what is obvious is that we have to improve management, we have to follow a plan of viability that will ensure that they have not only work, but that this will also be sustainable. Today, this board has nothing to answer because nothing they've asked me to do, that is, there's no request for financial support today without reply from this board. What I was asked to do is to have it, and they have it because it corresponds to them legally, because they meet all the characteristics. What they asked this councillor, a hundred percent, they have, and today they have no request at all for this advisor to give them an answer. It's not obvious that we were talking to them today, that we'll even talk to them again tomorrow. And another appreciation, Mrs. Adam: since we see that we have the same objective, both you and I, it's also important that the goal be the same as the employees of the entity, that is, they all row together, that they don't put sticks in the wheels on those who are now facing...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u284	Thank you very much, Counselor. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u285	...and that somehow we all move in the same direction. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Question by Mr Pablo García García and three other Members of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, about the number of Greek farms that rented milk quota in the last campaign
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u286	Mr. García has the floor to ask his question.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u287	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, Counselor. As you know, another thing is that we've been discussing what you've been doing about this, within just a month and a half of it ends a system of quotas in which we've seen the dairy sector in this country and across Europe in recent years; as you also know, or should know that this problem of quota deficit with respect to production affects the Spanish State, but it greatly affects the Greek farms. Counsellor, do you continue to reaffirm what you have said here in parliamentary office and you have also said through the media on numerous occasions, and therefore making demonstrations for that report, which only three or four months ago – I think I remember last August or September – said that we were going to have an excess of 300,000 tons when I finished the campaign within a month and a half, and today it speaks only of 16,000 tons, and that in some way even if there were less fights, and then when you said that you were going to be 300,000 tons instead of correcting those reports because it gave you the reason and it was actually okay? Do you reaffirm yourself in those demonstrations, where he told the gentlemen that there would be fines and, therefore, that they had to stop producing, as if it were so simple, that they had to sacrifice their cattle because when they stopped producing there are two options: either sacrifice their cattle and sell it or sell it or sell it, or draw the milk, either of the two bad ones? What do you have to tell those thousands of sheep who, therefore, have done one of those two things, or many of them, of the Greeks – and it is also in a question, the specific question I ask you – that they had to rent quota in the last year of the quota system and pay in many cases, that they have paid 10 cents a kilo? What can you tell those geese, now that they seem to be such and as any normal person would say there will be no such overpassion or there will be such overpassion in the dimensions that you said, that you've already paid those 10 cents of kilos of quota, that is, that you've already paid the supertax and no one returns it to them? What would you have to tell those glovers who saw that when you told them that they had to rent quotas, and they wanted to exceed them in a 5, in a 10, in a 15 or a 20 per cent, they would come to the Ministry's farm program – an example of Aragonese – where they spent one and a half million kilograms a month, without their advisor telling them that they had to stop producing, or that they had to sell cows, or that they had to rent quota? How is it possible that you and the Ministry's head, with 2,500 live quota leased today in the last year of systems, continue to pay rents...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u288	Thank you very much, Mr. García. [[Mr. García García pronounces words that are not perceived]] Could not connect with command "%s": %s. [[Applause]] Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Mr. Garcia. The councilor of the countryside and the sea, Mrs. Rosa Quintana, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u289	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Garcia, it's been a long time to ask what I know or what I don't know, and I don't give him the time to ask me the specific question that came in the document. So, leaving the dissertations aside, I'll answer you. You asked me how many installments they had bought, sold and rented. And because it's specific, with data a day ago, because this isn't closed yet, there are 3,803 deliveries of quota or temporary rents, and this represents an overall amount of 205,666 tons. And by comparing this figure with last year's campaign, between 2013 and 2014, we see that in the current campaign the amount is much higher, because in the previous period the figures were 1,718 by an amount of 105,583 tons, i.e., 121% more in the number of applications and 95% more in the volume of tons carrying these requests. We understand that this data is normal within the current situation, since in the current campaign, still unfinished, the risk of overtaxing quota is very high on farms. These holdings, responsibly, acquired rent to depreciate the possible overtax on their holdings. Without a doubt, that was a certain threat situation, as much as some would like to remove iron from him and try to deny it or call us alarmists, but we believe that the position of responsibility is to talk about what can happen to avoid subsequent deceptions and problems. That is why we have warned in recent months, both me and the other heads of the department and the parliamentary group, of the need to moderate milk production and adapt it to the available quota. They've been at least half a dozen in this House and they've always been done since responsibility. We haven't come out of that risk yet, and we must remain cautious. Being better isn't safe, and I think all the data is talking about it. With November data, the overpassing of Spain's quota was between 0.4 and 0.7, but the gain level is not the same, and it's 8.5% that in Galicia had in December exceeded its share. I know from a lot of voices that now, as you put it, seeing this overpass that doesn't reach 1%, they show disdain and they keep calling us alarmists. But it is clear that if measures had not been taken in time this figure would not be the same. This government just wants not to add a new slab to the sector. We understand who is in danger of the situation, because it seems to him to be inexplicable and unacceptable, because it's the last year and the finalization of quotas has been decided for many years. But, glaring a Spanish saying, it must be said that "to the ass all is bull," and it won't be that when we get very little left, the last corner comes to us. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u290	Thank you very much, Counselor. Mr. García's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u291	Counsellor, your attitude on this subject and your management on this subject can be qualified in any way less responsible. You're irresponsible. You've got the theme fixed, you're not going to have the quota, you're not going to have the quota with the glovers on the eve of municipalities. This subject has been settled, and surely that is what you are, Counselor. But the sector has stopped producing to not pay the fine because you told it, and the money-gatherers have lost money and are worse prepared than they were a few months ago on April 1st, which I've already explained: that I can't produce little on March 31st and April 1st, to produce the top and be less prepared. So you were anything less responsible, because a responsible political leader – worth redundancy – could not have let the sector reach that situation, and you should have articulated measures so that that it would not be. But the one responsible is not to get the problem out of the way, the tranquillity is yours. In fact, you will avoid overtaxing and you will avoid the mess of the supertax, but you have not avoided the damage that has caused your exploits, because you actually have the problem solved, but what you rented those kilos quota to 10 cents of little value to you, Counselor, your responsibility; you have paid them, that already paid them. What he had to sacrifice animals in order not to pass the quota, because you told him, actually, that's already paying for the consequences. And indeed, you will have no problem on March 31st and there will be no supertax. Of course, if we diagnose that was your problem, then you actually solved it. But that's not the problem in the sector, and you're here -- you understand -- to fix and to help fix the problems in the sector, not to fix your problem, because then we didn't need a counselor for that company. Counsellor, stop hiding in the sense that this was the case. This was because if you wanted it to be this way, and it was because of the cowardice, and understanding also that cowardice if you have the philosophy that, in fact, there's no problem even though you've done all this and that this...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u292	Thank you very much, Mr. García. Thank you very much. [[Mr. García García pronounces words that are not perceived.]] [[Applause]] Replica from the Middle Rural and Sea Councillor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u293	Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Garcia, look, I don't come here to do theatre or circumvent my responsibility, but on the contrary, I take responsibility all the time since minute one. And within that responsibility, I have to remind you that this sector, even though it's the last year with quota, there's quota, and so this year we had to adjust. Others sold to the sector the story that this year, as it was the last year, there would no longer be overtaxes and then there was nothing and could be produced without limit. And that was tricking the sector, and that's an irresponsible way of working the sector. I've always been straight to the sector and told him: this year we have to prepare for the year that comes without quotas, but this year there are them, and therefore this year we have to adjust to our production and we have to arbitrate the measures to make a good balance of what operating costs and what are the operating costs and what we already have for that production we have. And we always work to defend the sector. And we said that the producer sector has to do its job: organization; administration has to do its job: help it increase the territorial base of farms; industry has to do its part: having a real industry here in Galicia, which we still need to have; and distribution has to help the industry and also have to help the producers. And so we did more, and we went to say that we had to get our products out of Galicia too, because in Galicia we produced more than we could consume. And you yourself laughed at this House and insulted our president of the board when we said there were market opportunities with Mexico and Cuba. And now that you have laughed at our president, you who laughs at our actions to defend our sector, it turns out that they are now asking for markets to be opened with North Africa and Venezuela. Then we must have a lot of facilities to get to the market. When we said that, it wasn't logical to put this future out for our sector. [[Applause]] Mr. Garcia, I'm not irresponsible, I'm not leaving the sector, I'm not saying I'm just here to wash my face; I'm here to defend the sector, to respond to the needs of the sector and to help you find a solution to your future, that I'm convinced that there will still be. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u294	Thank you very much. Question by Ms. María Isabel García Pacín and seven other Members of the G.P. Most popular of Galicia, about the actions being carried out in the Galician Union in search of a structure that ensures the viability of the Greek milk sector in the context of the disappearance of milk quotas
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u295	You have the word of Mrs. Pacín to ask her question.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u296	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, everyone. We finish the session by talking about the dairy sector, because we agree with the dairy sector when they say there will be one before and after the next campaign when the contingency system disappears. We start from a situation of uncertainty for producers and buyers, where reinforcement measures are needed for the weakest sector in the current structure, the more than 10,500 farms, which account for 50%, more than 50% of the sector at the national level and more than 40% of total production, where today the average per-exploitation data consolidates their viability, both in the assigned production quota and in the number of troops, as well as on the surface of the territorial base. Averages that have increased substantially over the last two decades, with investment efforts by holders and support policies followed by administrations, decided and effective, thus favoring the competitiveness of the Greek dairy farms compared to other regions or countries. It is necessary to take a serious look at whether the direct impact of administrations on the achievement of these initial objectives through new regulations in recent years, aid and economic support from different calls and, above all, the impact and role of the administration on the milk market, mainly in achieving transparency, balance, equality in the relationships of the different agents involved, in order to reduce volatility and achieve milk prices in origin that ensure profit margins and make them more profitable. But, Counsellor, if we are adjusted, the justification for this issue we are making today is the concern moved to recent meetings by representatives of production, which have made their voices in opposition groups concerned with the imminent changes to the current regulations and new regulations to be published, and the demands on this transferred by the German Government in the defence of the interests of the sector. It was clear that a consensus or agreement could not be reached, when issues raised are not viable, because European regulations thus prevent it. Even if you keep looking to other countries like France and try to copy those decrees. I ask: are they smarter in France and they have a way of elucidating or putting aside European regulations? Or perhaps in their time, because they had time and opportunity, socialist governments, if in France, for example, the mediator is a figure that imposes, which is mandatory, why didn't he then move to national legislation? They're questions they demand today, but they weren't talked about them very recently. Counsellor, there are issues of basic coincidence, we ask...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u297	Thank you very much, Mrs. Pacín. [[Applause]] The advisor of the Middle Rural and the Sea has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u298	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mrs. García Pacín, as you know, the viability of our dairy farms will be given to ensure competitiveness in two ways: which affects the means of production in terms of cost and which leads us to raise production in economic terms, which must reach revenue. As far as means of production are concerned, one of the key factors is given by the area of farms. In this sense, I suppose that the next adoption of the law that was discussed yesterday, the Law of Improvement of Galicia's land structure, will form together with the Land Mobility Act, adopted in 2011, and the Galician Mountain Law, adopted in 2012, a unique and coherent legal body to promote this increase. In addition to all of this, together with another set of measures that have just been developed, they have been able to respond to our positive, but short, view of the problem, and leave us numbers as an increase in the territorial base by dairy exploitation in 248% between 2001 and 2011. But this would not be complete if we were to stick to our own means of work. And in that too, we have made an important transfer of funds, since it is more than 36.4 million euros that have come to the farms in these two years through 1,131 files processed on the basis of the implementation of improvement plans in them. But in addition to the issues relating to the means used, we believe that the other way must be given by considering production in economic terms, in order to improve farm income. Should they sell a lot? Yes, but they must sell better. For this reason, the content of Royal Decree 1363/2012 is fundamental, so it regulates the recognition of milk producers' organizations and interprofessional organizations in the milk sector and sets out their terms of employment, and Decree 112/2011 of 3 June, so it regulates the procedure for the recognition and registration of milk producers' organisations. It is necessary, because of the use of the possibilities of these rules, that dairy producers' organisations begin to work on the line that marks legal regulations, with the objective of achieving conditions in fair contracts and of adopting the fundamental role for what they are: that of negotiator and ensuring the interests of the sector. That is why the Union welcomes the fact that the producer organisations finally decided to follow the recommendations of the Autonomic Administration and would have to summon the milk buyers to sit down to negotiate the terms of the collection. In this sense, it's important to remember that it's the agents in the sector who have to sit down and negotiate. If they fail to reach an agreement, the regulations cover the mediator's figure, but nothing would make sense or application if negotiations were not initially carried out. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u299	Thank you very much. Mrs. García Pacín's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u300	Thank you, Madam President. Counsellor, we share that vision despite the fact that there are groups here that think it must be the administration who is obliged to negotiate and the price pact. We only ask that they continue to work since June so that the regulatory and administrative framework further strengthens the negotiating capacity of the producer sector, and from agricultural organizations or entities, they put in place the tools that give them that regulatory body. That is why we proposed before the agricultural organizations and the rest of the groups, concerning administrations, that the figure of the mediator and the Code of Good Practices of Trade in the forthcoming development regulation of Law 12/2013, of 2 August, of measures to improve the functioning of the food chain, so that from an independent nature it may intervene in the event of conflict in the negotiation of milk producers and their associations with the industry, which appears to be going to be; and that the modification of the actual decree, to which you made reference, and the development regulation of the same law mentioned above are published in such a way that they are vigilant to the beginning of the next dairy campaign before 1 April of this year, which also seems to be going to be. And concerning sector entities, to urge that dairy producers' organisations or their associations, in the area of the Italian autonomous action, develop the functions that collective bargaining enables the milk sector as exceptionality, not being affected by competition rules in an active and generalized way, in order to achieve, among other things, the said volume tolerances, solvency advantages of the first buyers and other specific issues covered by the contract. We see you're doing it, others are costing you more. Let's hope the conditions are enabled so they don't have excuses and end up recognizing also that Galicia maintains leadership in the dairy actions. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u301	Thank you very much. Replica from the councilor of the Middle Rural and Sea, Mrs. Rosa Quintana.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u302	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mrs. García Pacín, who didn't have the slightest doubt that we will continue to work in all the fields necessary to improve our dairy sector, we have seen it doing so since we arrived at the Government and we will continue to do so. Some people are changing their course and some people when things happen to them and they're in the government don't know what's going on. And, of course, it makes me a lot of fun when they say, "Oh, now the odds are over, you have to ask them to follow the quotas." Hey!, in 2006 it didn't seem important to follow the quotas, in 2009 it didn't seem important to follow the quotas, and suddenly in the years 2012, 2013 and 2014 now it's important to follow the quotas. Well, that's what we're used to. As in the case of the mediator figure. What did Galicia propose? That we have the possibility to negotiate all the same along the food chain. And they're making all the game possibilities there is and because there is. What you cannot deny is that there is a law, which comes from the Government of Mr. Rodríguez Zapatero, where the figure of the mediator was created, and says that this figure has to be in every case of volunteerness, impartiality, neutrality and confidentiality, and it has to be voluntary, that is, if you want the figure of the mediator to exist, there will be. What have we done? At Galicia's request, what's been done at the Ministry, at the Mapra? Put the mediator figure there, the sector's disposition. And if the sector feels like negotiating and not reaching an agreement, they'll have the chance to go to that mediator so there can be an agreement between the two sides. But the first thing you have to do is sit down and negotiate. What this administration will never do, Mrs. García Pacín, who doesn't have the slightest doubt, is put the sector in a dead end. I'm not going to sit down to negotiate prices, because that's all I'm going to get is that the Competition Court punishes the producer sector, as it has happened on other occasions, and unfortunately precisely in the fishing sector, as a result of bad negotiations on its day. So who has to negotiate is the sector, the sector has the possibility, it has the tool, and we, of course, are going to continue working with the Ministry so that this law of the food chain that is developing in real decrees every day gives more strength to the producer sector, which is what most needs to go ahead. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-11-DSPG097.u303	Thank you very much, Counselor. We're out of order, we're up. Good afternoon.
