ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-22-DSPG135.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, please go and take your seats. Good morning. The session is open. The agenda is published in the Official Gazette of the Parliament of Galicia, so it is not read. Mrs. Carmen Iglesias and Mr. José Antonio Sánchez Bugallo have justified her inattentiveness. Promise or oath of acceptance of the Constitution and the Statute of autonomy by Mrs Teresa Cancelo Marquez, in substitution of Ms Maria Soledad Piñeiro Martínez
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-22-DSPG135.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, before entering the agenda, a preliminary point is included, which is the promise or oath of the new Mrs Teresa Cancelo Marquez, in place of Mrs Maria Soledad Piñeiro Martínez. According to the procedure, the formula is to answer "yes, I swear" or "yes, I promise" to the question of this presidency, and I beg you to answer from the stage to the question I'm going to ask you. Maria Teresa Cancelo Marquez, do you swear or promise to abide by and maintain fidelity to the Constitution and to the Statute of Galicia?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-22-DSPG135.u3	I swear.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-22-DSPG135.u4	Well, I gave the oath, reached the full status of Parliament in Galicia, and we welcome you. Thank you very much. We then enter the development of the agenda, which, as you know, has a unique point. Debate and vote of the Ditame drawn up by Commission 3rd, Economic, Business and Budgets, on the draft general budget law of the Autonomous Community of Galicia for the year 2016
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-22-DSPG135.u5	For the presentation of the commission's dictatorship, the Vice-President of Commission 3rd, Economics, Farms and Budgets, Ms. Isabel García Pacín.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-22-DSPG135.u6	Good morning, ladies. It's up to me to make the Ditome presentation on the draft general budget law of the Autonomous Community of Galicia for 2016. The bill was entered into Parliament's Register on 20 autumn 2015. The Bureau of Parliament, at its meeting on 20 autumn 2015, issued its publication in the Official Bulletin of the Parliament of Galicia and the opening of the deadline for the submission of amendments to the whole, which ended on 7 November 2015 and 17 November 2015 for the partial. Even so, listening to the Speaker's Board, he agreed to the 3rd Commission on Economics, Farms and Budgets. The amendments to the whole were qualified on 13 November 2015. The parliamentary groups of the Socialists, the Alternative Left Galaga and the Galego Nationalist Block formulated amendments for the global return of general budgets, and of the budget of the sections, as well as non-devolutional amendments that transferred credits between applications from different sections or changed the total content of income and expenditure states. The Joint Parliamentary Group has tabled an amendment for the total return of general budgets. All amendments were discarded at the plenary session on November 23, 2015. The partial amendments, detailed below, were qualified on 24 November 2015. By the People's Parliamentary Group of Galicia, amendments to the joint tabled, an amendment to the number 16 states, which make a total of 17. By the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, amends to articulate 47, amends to numerical states 615, which make up a total of 662. By the Alternative Gaga Parliamentary Group, amends to articulate 30, amends to the number 120 states, which make up a total of 150. By the Nationalist Bloc Parliamentary Group, amends to articulate 34, amends to numerical states 461, which make up a total of 495. And by the Joint Parliamentary Group, amends to articulate 10, amends to the numerical states none, which make up a total of 10. Total amendments to the articulated, 122; total amendments to the numerical states, 1,212, which make a total of 1,334. At its meeting on 26 November 2015, the Commission appointed the following rapporteurs: by the People's Parliamentary Group, Fr. Pedro Puy Fraga as holder and Mr. Gonzalo Trenor López as alternate. For the Socialist Group, Mr. Juan Carlos González Santín as holder and Mr. José Luis Méndez Romeu as alternate. For the Parliamentary Group of Alternative Glaga de Left, Iolanda Díaz Pérez as holder and Fr.Antón Sánchez García as alternate. For the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Fr. Francisco Jesus Jorquera Caselas as holder and Ms. Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo as alternate. And by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Ms. Maria Consuelo Martínez García as the holder and Mrs. Carmen Iglesias Sueiro as alternate. The presentation was held on 27 November 2015, and the report was finalized, which contains the recommendations made to the committee, consisting of the majority of amendments made by the People's Parliamentary Group. With regard to the remaining amendments, the presentation, by the majority, recommended that the committee reject those presented to the articulated by the parliamentary groups of the Socialists of Galicia, the Alternative Left Galician, the Galician Nationalist Block and the Mixed Group. Amendments to the expenditure statements submitted by these groups were pending for the committee. The committee, meeting on 3, 4, 7 and 9 December, adopted by most the report issued by the panel. The number of amendments maintained for the plenary is as follows: by the Socialist Parliamentary Group, 47 to the articulated and 615 to the numerical states; by the Left Galician Alternative Group, 30 and 120 to the numerical states, which make a total of 150; by the Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, 34 to the articulated and 461 to the numerical states; by making a total of 111 amendments to the articulated and 1,196 to the numerical states. So there are processing pending at plenary session 1.307 amendments. The ditam consists of an articulated text and a numerical state consisting of income, expenditure and financial states. The total consolidated budget of the autonomous public sector amounts to EUR 10.310.241.402. The articulated text consists of a explanatory statement, followed by 62 articles, grouped into 6 titles, 15 additional provisions, 3 transitional provisions, 3 last layouts and 7 annexes. Title I refers to the approval of budgets and the modification of appropriations regime. Title II regulates staff costs. The III shall be referred to in the case of obliging operations and guarantees. The IV regulates budget management. Title V is dedicated to the financing of local corporations. And Title VI refers to tax rules, which include a single precept on the criteria for the allocation of environmental damage tax and the wind canon, since most of the tax regulation contained in the Bill of Tax and Administrative Measures, which will soon be dealt with in this plenary session. Finally, the expiry date of the future law is determined, as well as the date of its entry into force. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-22-DSPG135.u7	Thank you, Vice President. Statement of expenditure debate
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-22-DSPG135.u8	We start with the joint debate on spending states, the round of parliamentary groups to explain their position on the Commission's dictatorship and, if so, to defend the amendments maintained. The Mixed Group has the word Mrs. Consuelo Martínez García.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-22-DSPG135.u9	Thank you, President. Good morning to all and to all. I want to begin my intervention today on such an important day by congratulating En Marea on her election outcome, on a very special day for the majority of society, which suffers the cuts to the limit of true sadism imposed by the People's Party over these years. While it is true that the election result did not end the political regime which denies the rights to the peoples of the State and intends to liquidate the social rights of citizenship throughout the state, there is of course an advance. When the debate of the nation's state, I was excited by a single candidacy of popular unity. At the full debate of all the budgets, I was disappointed because the single candidature which brought together the left and all nationalism had been frustrated. But he also said that it was necessary to look forward and overcome frustration because it was very well founded, and that it was not worth waiting for the autonomous elections within a few months, because the needs of the people and the emergencies of the country couldn't wait, and, above all, it couldn't be that frustration benefited the rotten regime. Well, the people of the world have surpassed disappointment and gave us all a lesson. The result was not what would result from a single candidacy, but it confirmed that the path is the confluence. But, above all, citizenship gave the People's Party in Galicia a battalion that caused it to lose more than 250,000 votes and drop from 15 to 10 Members. Therefore, Mr. Feijóo, on Sunday night, hurriedly said that he would continue to enjoy the privilege of the absolute majority, because he knows he does not have it as soon as he calls elections. Now, in the state, it takes a lot of dialogue to achieve the eviction of Rajoy and the PP from state institutions, to end the austereness of these terrible years, to return to the working class their rights, to defend public services and to amend the Constitution, by introducing the right of the nations of the state to decide their relationship with it. That's why we have to celebrate it, without the party preventing us from correcting the tides towards the future. Going to the object of this plenary, in which I'm sure the People's Party will continue to exercise most of the day that last Sunday has been certified by citizens and citizens who no longer have, I'll begin by recalling that in the middle of the 23rd day of last month, of the entire debate of the Budget Bill, all changes of return and all the people spokesmen of the opposition agree to qualify their 2016 budget project as a propaganda budget for the election year. Well, the statement that the Committee on Economics, Farms and Budgets is presenting confirms that my fears and assumptions were certain: the majority of the People's Party's mechanics are maintained in their thirteens. If they're willing to rectify, if, as the president of the board said on election night, they're willing to bring something closer to people, they have today a golden opportunity to do so. They actually dialogue and trade, they show that they can and want to come to terms, they give the citizen's signal that they've learned something from the lesson he gave them on December 20. They show the facts that are worth discussing with you and with the work of the parliamentary groups, who have endeavoured to present completely reasonable amendments, which are worth something to you. If they're not blind, they'd see that the opposition is very reasonable, that even on the budget project, that the whole opposition we qualify as propaganda budgets, and we think that the best thing we could do was to return them to the Government, the parliamentary groups have tabled amendments to improve it. They don't force the citizenry to spend another year constantly going out on the street to manifest themselves. Do something so that the tractors can return to their place, that the sick people don't have to manifest themselves, because enough is enough to take care of them. I will support all the amendments of the opposition groups that are going to push for a more fair tax system, to alleviate the extreme situations that are suffering more and more people, which are going to recover economic activity and promote job creation, to fix the population and protection of the great injured and affected by the crisis. As I said in the amendment to the draft budget law of the Galician Union, and as it is reflected in the ruling of the commission and in the rejection of many of the amendments tabled by the opposition, these budgets are blatantly electoralist. One of the electoral measures is the reduction of taxes, mainly IRPF and succession tax. It does not seem to be the most appropriate measure in the face of the current socio-economic situation, which leads to loss of economic activity, destruction of stable employment, creation of precarious employment, increase in the poverty rate of the population at risk of social exclusion, low births, emigration of youth, population ageing and desertification within Galicia, in some changes in the IRPF which mainly favours people with higher income, while still punishing the most disadvantaged. At the same time, the PP refuses to increase revenue through other taxes, such as environmental damage tax or the imposition of a tax on large commercial areas. And, as always, the drop in taxes implies cuts in public services, so the Budget Bill continues to maintain both the precarious employment of public employees, through the application of the measures collected in Law 1/2012, as well as for users, because of the shortage of staff, services and compensation. The salary increase stipulated in the draft law for the staff of the Galician Union does not compensate for the cuts and the wage freeze that has been suffering from this staff for years. Lower taxes and maintain the working precariousness of their workers and workers shows the lack of empathy of the People's Party with the working class and the lack of appreciation of the work performed by their own staff. Always empty speeches praising the work of the public staff, thanking their sacrifice, but always failing to fulfil their obligation to protect their work health and improve their quality of life and improve their conditions for reconciling working and family life. That's why they're not credible, because their speech always contradicted their rules and decisions. It also keeps the staff replenishment rate for all 50 per cent advisories, with exceptions provided for in the bill. But these exceptions do not guarantee the coverage of the hundred per cent of essential public services, only to establish such coverage as the maximum permitted regardless of the situation. This means that we will again have collapsed hospitals and will again be guilty of the outbreak of the flu, it will again be the fault of the whole world less than the People's Party, which continues to allow, in spite of all that is happening both in the HULA, Chou, CHUAC, CHUS and the new Cunqueiro Alvaro, both in primary and specialized care, the deterioration of the care quality of health services. That's the achievement of the policies of the People's Party in Galicia over these seven years. In addition, the provision in Article 14 concerning the recruitment of temporary staff and the appointment of statutory and temporary staff, which is reduced to urgent needs which cannot be met by staff restructuring, is unacceptable. I mean, the government bets to keep moving the staff miles within its EOXI to perform replacements that may last for an hour, two hours, four hours, one day, several days... as a result of this operation of labour by the Administration, the quality of services is worse than the health and safety of the affected staff. It doesn't make any sense what they're doing right now, it's an indecency of such a caliber that it's unqualified; of course, if we qualify it, the Madam President would call my attention. You use staff as an ETT, you have an ETT mounted within the administration itself to make contracts of a precariousness that I think would even rob private companies. You give lessons today to the private company how you can better exploit the workers and the workers: send them from one place to another; make them travel 30 kilometers, 40 or 50 for an hour contract. Indecent, it's an indecency, it's a robbery. And if you wanted to vote for them, you're going to throw 'b' them out of the country, they don't deserve the trust of the working class in this country, because they've been afraid of it long and hard every time they've ruled. Such a situation as Vigo's health area is the reflection of these policies that are contrary to the interests of the majority of society: a private hospital, with non-sanitary services privatized, endless queues in consultations, constant failures, cancellation of interventions, a real chaos. That's their health policy: to turn public health into something so poorly organized, so staffless, so lacking in guarantees and services that, as happens in Vigo, people ask to attend it in a concerted private centre; a concerted private centre that is not controlled, which is unknown what its assistance quality is, which is not known what their waiting list is, which is not known what it does with public money. But you make it easier for that information not to come to light so that people change to private health and refuse to be treated in public health. That's their policy: to end essential public services. Article 31 is also inescapable, in relation to the appointment of the interim part-time professor, establishing the possibility of completing the working day in several centres. The same as in health, precarious work as a standard. That precaution and these shifts from one center to another had affected the health care staff, and now it's going to affect the teacher as well. Investment in education is fundamental for the future of any country and for Galicia is an inappropriate need. During this year 2015 we attended numerous complaints from the ANPA regarding the lack of support teacher for children with special needs, the indecency of menus in school lunches, the lack of squares in public centers, situations that require the highest attention by the Government, who, however, intends to continue to prejudge the teaching staff and continue to deteriorate public education. In fact, the bill leaves it free to continue to increase the squares in concerted education centres, although unilaterally it is allowed to break the 2008 agreement between the Education Council, employers' organizations and trade unions that affect the salaries of staff serving in the concerted education centres. I mean, let's go back to aggression in the working class, cancel the capacity of collective bargaining, reintroduce collective bargaining, which is a priority for defending the interests of the working class. And you, by decree, annul agreements signed between the Administration, the trade unions and the employer. That's their democracy: the democracy of the decree, which signs an agreement and by decree afterwards, without speaking to the other parties, simply throws the agreement down, affecting the lives of people, the lives of the working class and the lives of the children attending those schools. The government's real goal is to end quality public services. I have to say: these measures are not taken by the People's Party because if it is wrong, they are measures taken to achieve their goal, which is to end public services and promote the assistance of essential services by private companies. The goal is that what happened in Vigo's health area all over the country, that users come to the concert. Not to mention what these budgets are going to assume of care and work precariousness in all social services, both in women and in dependence, as well as Risga, as in minors, as in energy poverty. Budgets give their backs to all these problems of the most vulnerable people and nothing else that they collect – I don't know how to call it – would say that propagandistic alms to see how it is done but that they don't solve the problems of society. As for R+D+i, it's incredible that Joine's bet is for research and attracting individual Welsh researchers into emigration when it sets a maximum staff cost limit in the Greek universities against that goal. The bet on research must begin by stabilising research teams, to ensure the investigation process and to constitute a pole of attraction both to the Greek talent that is now on the outside and to private investment and the creation of employment based on knowledge rather than the precariousness of working conditions. We could also talk about the resistance of the People's Party to accepting any amendment aimed at increasing the level of transparency in the management of public money. A lot of transparency law but little application of transparency to real policies. It is particularly serious for me to understand the People's Party's insistence not to provide information on public-private partnership contracts and the granting of public works, especially after experiences such as A-8, the Alvaro Cunqueiro Hospital or what is happening with AP-9, which, after having approved the request for transfer in this Parliament, is already responsible for the Popular Party in Madrid to reject it; that is the reality, the policy of the People's Party capable of adopting here a measure that later knows that it will be rejected in the Spanish State, in Congress. As for the care benefits of children and children, I have already spoken about it; therefore, I only regret the frivolity with which the People's Party faces not only the future of the Greek population, but the precarious conditions of life of many families and children in charge. And I'm really asking the People's Party: do you think some women stop having a child for 360 euros a year? No woman ceases to have a child because 360 euros a year are missing, it's not a measure. The only formula for correcting the demographic problem comes from mid- and long-term measures, which means working to create stable and quality jobs. That means working so that the rural world can create an industry close to its primary products. That means creating wealth, quite the opposite of what you're doing. This doesn't mean to sell our country for bits, it doesn't mean to sell our state-of-the-art companies or sell our productive sectors, as they're doing now, or leave the dairy sector to their luck. There they are, with their tractors in the street, the same thing that's going on with the sailors in the siege, camped in front of the board during a whole election campaign without the People's Party getting close to them until the last hour – I think they had the meeting today. Is that the People's Party waiting for the support of citizenship? Do you really think citizenship is so uncultivated, so stupid that you don't know that it works on promises you don't fulfill? What are they still hiding the truth, covering up the corruption that surrounds them? That's what there is. I cannot accept the additional provision of the second tenth, designed to perpetuate the failure to comply with the V Single Convention on Union Personnel, and the extreme precariousness in which fire prevention and extinction services work. I've referred more than once to the situation in Seaga, it's the greatest indecency that a government can have: consenting to have staff working for the Public Administration without a reference agreement, with the minimums set out in the Staff Regulations. Labour discrimination, labour exploitation, political indecency are the qualities that deserve such conduct. You reject any of the demands of society, you don't listen to society. You're going to get society to listen to you, you have the solution and you're always going to tell society, but they're unable to give the solution, because first you have to hear what the problems of society are, recognize them and empathize with them, issues that you're unable to do. They've been lying to Galician society for more than seven years, and this Sunday, they've expressed this dissatisfaction with the government, not only the state, but also with the lack of initiative in the defence that the German Government makes of our country's interests. Thus, the ship: destruction of more than 9,000 jobs, a world-wide destroyed pointer sector, the yards dedicated to wind, the floating dam not built. Now we'll see how they defend Galician interests in relation to the tax Read judgment. What are you going to do? The employer showed up, I didn't hear her. What are you going to do about the tax read? They've just sunk the Welsh naval sector, dozens of closed naval companies, 9,000 street workers...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-22-DSPG135.u10	Quiet, please. Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-22-DSPG135.u11	Don't point me in there, because they don't rule there, it's the government's responsibility...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-22-DSPG135.u12	Silence! Mr. Golden.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-22-DSPG135.u13	And, Mr. Dorado, there's nothing worse than a government that throws balloons out when the time comes for responsibility. You rule and have the responsibility to solve. As for the sea, the sailors of the siege camped before the council for two months, waiting for today's meeting. I don't know if they have any serious proposals to solve the problem of seafarers. Not to mention the problem of shellfish, the pollution of our rivers, the death of the marine banks by their cowardice, uh, despite the European Union's earballs. Sadly, they abandon our rivers and aim to keep ENCE going so that it will continue to pollute Pontevedra's river and can't get into life. Unemployment and the precariousness of the world of work. The Union not only hires public services to companies that do not comply with labour law, companies that do not comply with firm judicial judgments, and you continue to maintain contracts with these companies and do not even pronounce them or send them any notice or claim them to comply with them, companies that undermine the working conditions of their staff. But, of course, as I said, Joine itself is the first to teach lessons on how to prejudge employees. There's still going to be a part-time recruitment team. As I said, not only in health care, social services, but now also in teaching. Temporary recruitment, flexible recruitment, partial recruitment, absolute precariousness in public services. So – and finished – I will vote against the ruling of the commission and regret that Galicia has to endure another year's austerity and propaganda policies of the People's Party. I hope, I don't know what's going to happen in Madrid, but my illusion would be that Madrid's events had led to an early election in Galicia and that Galicia had no longer had to withstand the austere, anti-social policies of the People's Party in Galicia. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-22-DSPG135.u14	Thank you very much, Mrs. Martínez. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. You have the floor to Mrs. Pontón Mondelo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-22-DSPG135.u15	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen. The three advisers who are also present in this debate are grateful for their presence, while we regret the rest of the absences, which we believe in the most important debate that takes place in the year, such as the debate on budgets, because they do not even consider the representation of the people in this Parliament to attend this debate. In any case, they consolidate what has been lacking in respect of this government in relation to this Parliament and the debates that take place in it, which is to say that they do not consider opinions that are different from their own. In any case, we are attending a debate which is transcendent for two reasons. The first is because we are debating what policy is going to be developed by the Council of Galicia, what figures really accompany the policy of the Government of Beijóo, and also because these are the last budgets of this legislation and it's a good time to take stock. We reject these budgets because they are budgets that are continuity with a policy that only caused inequality, poverty, unemployment and suffering in our country; an unfair policy, a useless policy, a policy that consolidated Galicia as a low-cost country, a policy that left people who have suffered with greater cruelty the consequences of a crisis that they did not cause, which was a crisis caused by the greed of the bank, of transnational, of an absolutely collapsed model. And, therefore, we understand that these budgets continue with a wrong policy and that they carry on the people of our country, the working people, the popular classes, the consequences of a crisis that they didn't suffer. We also understand that this budget continues to consolidate and sharpen all that is the marginal paper and the policy of our country. In fact, during these years its policies, the policies of the People's Party, the policies of Feijóo, the only thing they did was to increase the dismantling of our productive tissue, to increase inequalities and to – let's say – sharpen the problems that Galicia had already had before that crisis. Let's put some examples that we think are illustrative of this diagnosis we're making. Now, in 2014, which is the latest data we have, two out of ten households report having a lot of difficulty coming to the end of the month. This figure is expected to increase by 4% in 2014 compared to the previous year. We also know that in our country, because they are data from Caritas, there are over 600,000 people who are at risk of poverty and social exclusion, that there is a problem of growing inequality that is very serious and that the government has always tried to minimize. We have 177,000 unemployed people in our country who do not have any kind of economic benefit, that is, they are living without income thanks to bed and family solidarity, while the welfare state forgets their existence. We see how during this crisis new forms of poverty have developed, that there are many hard-working people who work hard, who get up in the morning and arrive at night, who work six days a week and who, however, don't have to eat, don't have to come by the end of the month. We also see how you simply talk about unemployment and unemployment as figures, when we're talking about people's problems, and how they forget that really what happened, the scarce job that is being generated right now, is a precarious job; 9 out of every 10 jobs are precarious; many people have a job because they access jobs a week, a day, a month; that's not having a job or creating quality jobs, it's just making society and the social majority of our country more and more precarious. All this about Galicia, who had and still has the lowest wages in the whole state, despite the fact that we are the ones who work the most hours of the whole Spanish state. We have a wage structure that clearly draws a country in a very difficult situation. So let's see: 1 out of every 3 workers and workers in our country earns less than 1,000 euros, 3 out of every 10 workers have jobs that are below the minimum interprofessional wage, a minimum wage that is really very low in our country, which is below the real cost of life, and we see how you, far from recognizing this situation, far from wanting to correct inequality and growing poverty among many people in our country, are still with the wrong strategy. A strategy that in practice consisted of and continues to consist of consolidating the dismantling of the naval sector, where thousands of jobs have been destroyed since the crisis began. The dismantling, for example, of one of the vertebral columns of our entire rural area, as is the dairy sector; we're talking about that only in the last year each month 80 dairy farms have disappeared because of the low prices, those low prices that they pay to farmers in this country, which are the lowest in the whole Spanish state. Or as they follow a quota policy that clearly dismantles our fishing sector. And as Mr Feijó's Government, what he did was in other competitive areas, such as R+D+i, some cuts that place us at the tail of the entire state and without the possibility of really being able to rectify an erratic policy. So we understand that these budgets really constitute a corset for Galicia's development, which want to consolidate a policy of precariousness, a policy that condemned emigration many people and that I also subjected cuts and privatizations in social services, particularly in health care, with very serious consequences, as we are seeing in Vigo's health area, where in the end economic spending is subject to the interests of a company while the quality and health care of the Greeks and the Greeks is deteriorating. For these reasons, we call for the withdrawal of these budgets. We also asked for the modification of the spending structure of some of the substantial games once the Government has not rectified. We didn't accept a single amendment, not a comma, not a point, not a parenthesis of those budgets, and you get here with a fixed picture, with budgets where you don't accept any of the partial amendments that you're presenting, I believe that neither this group nor the rest, despite the fact that we're presenting more than 450 amendments to these budgets, where we wanted to change some priorities. It seems to us that this is also a sad balance of government that is embodied in a policy and that what is being undermined is not only the citizens' rights, the quality of life, but also the democratic life of our country, of Galicia, because you turn the parliamentary process into a bureaucratic process, show that you do not want to listen to or accept any opinion other than yours, that they have no desire or dialogue or modification of any of the parties, despite the fact that many of these amendments that we collect are not only proposals from our group, but also proposals that transfer different social groups to the problems they have. In any case, we believe that this obsession goes against the Greeks and the Greeks, because they're squeezing the possibility of being able to give budget bodies the solution to many of the problems that, even if you deny them, still exist. The truth is very difficult to defend more than 450 amendments to each of the budget sections in this debate, which we refuse, because it seems to us that it is corsets and that it makes it increasingly difficult for the debate to be real, that arguments can be put forward, and in practice we see how political life is becoming, because almost considering that everything is solved by twit, right?; then, almost today we could only make small threads to be able to list the amendments, because we could certainly not read the amendments that we tabled or explain with delay what the orientation is and what the political reasoning behind that presentation is. In any case, we advocate amendments to create jobs and fight against precariousness, amendments to fight against immigration, amendments to defend our environment and a new model of sustainable development, amendments to guarantee social rights, public services, health, education, and amendments to promote our language and culture. By the way, I'm going to talk about some of the amendments on the orders of the councils, because I think this makes it easier. And so, with regard to section 4a of the Presidency, it seems to us that it would be important to rectify the policy of cutting equality policies developed by the Government of Greece and preventing gender-based violence. We believe that in this area you have reduced policies solely to aid direct victims. And although we understand that this policy is necessary, it is clearly insufficient, as we are seeing right now. That is why we propose measures to really act in promoting equal opportunities, to eradicate the causes that justify gender-based violence, as in Amendment No 325, with a plan of EUR 4 million for promoting equality and preventing gender-based violence. And we also believe that it would be important for you to comply with the laws, and so we also propose a plan for the inclusion of women, which is something that should be doing this government by law and which has been failing for seven years. And we propose that this plan be given with a minimum of 1.7 million euros. As far as tourism is concerned, we believe that there should be a correction of a model that is only centered on the Santiago Road. We think that we should make a diversified tourism, a tourism that really bets not just to fight seasonalization, but with a model that is also a low cost tourism, and that is why we propose that measures such as a strategic tourism plan, endowed with 4 million euros, or to provide budgetary content with the thermal plan of Ourense, so many times appointed in this House, but that we see that only because I would almost say that it is an intelligence, because in practice no real measures are applied in that area. As far as this board is concerned, section 4a of the Presidency, we also wanted to highlight an amendment of EUR 2.3 million to ensure public health benefits for immigrants, a problem that has been exacerbated by privatization and the dismantling of the Galego Hospital Centre in Bos Aires. As far as the Vice-Presidentship is concerned, what was – we understand – one of the biggest cuts in this section was the development cooperation program, which is at least historic. Today we are talking about allocating 0.7% because it results in almost utopia at such low levels as it is, and we therefore propose that we start and regain the budgetary level that the cooperation policies had in 2009 by increasing the resources for this policy by 2.1 million euros. In this area, we also believe that privatized public services must be rescued, as is the case with the public services of fire stations, where we propose an appropriation of 7.7 million euros. Because, in addition, the data show how the parks that are currently operating from the public domain have a lower cost than privatized ones, and therefore we understand that this would also be a measure that would not only result in a better quality of services, but also in a savings. And finally, to mention in this council the creation of stable employment in competitive municipalities, which we believe this policy should also have more resources, and there we make an allocation, an increase of 3.6 million euros. In relation to section 6a of Fairy, let's quote two amendments that seem to us to be the most relevant. The first is the provision of more than 2.8 million euros in a plan to combat the various forms of fraud: tax evasion and circumvention by large companies and large estates. We understand that there is an insufficient amount of this measure, that although it is true that Galicia has limited powers in this matter, we could do much more than it is being done, because if we are depriving society of a whole set of public resources that would actually be much more if we acted in this direction. And, above all, because in Galicia we have a very high level of tax fraud, we're talking about the studies talking about different figures, but in any case they range from 21 to 23%, some even talk about 26.3% of the gross domestic product in which our country's tax fraud would involve. And so we understand that there's a very serious problem there that the German Government is not paying attention. It also seems important to us, and it is an amendment that we have seen repeating on several occasions, which creates a budgetary control office of the Galician Parliament. An office that would really be a very useful tool to know of an budget that we approve here what is its level of development, what is its level of execution, to control that it is actually acting in accordance with the law that this Parliament approves. An instrument that has other state parliaments, but the Government of Galician Union, despite the fact that the PP was asking for it when he was in opposition, for he has been denying that it can be created. We assume that because you prefer opacity before transparency in budget management. With regard to section VII, the Territorial Environment and Planning Council, we believe that one of the priorities our country should have is the regeneration of our rivers. We have said that it is absolutely indecent that we have an environmental, social, ecological and economic value as important as our country's rivers and that for so long the serious pollution problems have been neglected. Serious problems that are already causing considerable loss of employment, which are also leading to the precariousness of many people who lived, for example, from the shellfish. And it seems to us that the policies that have been made in this area have been insufficient and partial. Inadequate because it is seen that we are not even able to comply with the directives and the deadlines that were laid down in these directives, because many of the clearance and sanitation measures are late, are incomplete, many debuggers constitute a problem of pollution in our rivers, and because they forget that pollution problems have not only to do with sanitation, but with other types of metals and with other problems arising also from urban pressure and pollution they are not addressing. That's why we propose 12 million euros for the regeneration of our rivers, including some of them particularized, such as the need to clean up the Burgo stream or the Ferrol stream, which we believe are two of which now have wider pollution problems. We also understand that another failure of this government in the field of the environment has to do with the absence of a policy that overcomes the problems caused by incineration in waste management. We thought it was a torpedoes and irresponsibility of the Government that could bet on composting, by composting comarcas that would greatly reduce the ecological impact of waste management and that would also create much more jobs, because it is shown that the comarcas plant model generates much more employment than the centralized model of Sogama, the Greek Government because it continues to insist on dimensioning this Sogama complex and not by betting for a model that is actually a decentralised model and a model in which the waste hierarchy that is established by law applies. We also believe it is important to provide more resources – let us say – the land management policies. And so we propose, for example, amendments to ensure that the land management guidelines and the coastal management plan have an economic allocation that allows what is said there to be so that it can be pushed and that there really is control of whether those instruments are for something. We understand that in view of the events both the POL and the land management guidelines are dead documents, that they have served absolutely nothing and that they are in some of their issues clearly unfulfilled, as we have repeatedly denounced in connection with the Ence-Elnosa. We also believe it would be important to increase aid for the damage caused by wildlife. This is a situation that is creating a lot of losses to many of our farmers, but it also causes major living problems in many areas. We see how the Union here practices a policy that doesn't respond quickly to these problems and which, therefore, bears on people's backs these damages. And we believe that this policy has to be rectified, or in this area too, we understand that it would be important to bet on a new model of management of protected natural spaces. So we proposed 2 million euros to re-regine areas of the Natura Network or protected natural parks, which this year, for example, we saw how they were fed from the fires, how an important part of the protected surface was razed without the Board of Galicia also paying attention to such important issues as this. As far as infrastructure and transport are concerned, it seems to us that the Government is still insisting on a wrong policy. We think the logic would be to reduce cement spending and increase and rescue social policy. In this case, really bet on social housing policies, which were one of the games that lowered the Government of Feijóo. It has been said that since 2009 to this day, the Galician Union in terms of housing policies has reduced its content by 75%. Just when there were more evictions, just when more people had problems accessing a housing, what the current board of Gaulza did was to charge itself with public policy and social housing policy. That's why we propose to substantially increase the social rental and rehabilitation policies of more than 20 million euros, that this policy be really the focus of a sensitivity of the Galician Union to care for the people who lose their homes, to get on the side of the people who are defeated and, above all, also to ensure that no one else has to see in that situation. We also understand that throughout this legislation the policy of transport of the Galician Union has shone out of its absence, there is an inability to modernize the whole transport system in our country, and only and exclusively it has acted in some urban areas and on tariff policies. In fact, what we're seeing is how in many respects public transport is still an absence, and it's impossible that if you don't have a particular vehicle because you can move normally and move, even to go to work. That's why we bet on a new concept of mobility based on intermodality and sustainability. So we keep betting on our amendments by equipping Galicia with a neighborhood service. We have two amendments in that direction with EUR 5.5 million, because we believe we have the right to have a neighbouring train, in view of that model of the People's Party, which only concerns you that the train we have arrives as soon as possible in Madrid. It seems to us that the most important thing would be to structure our country by rail. We also think that this isn't going to solve all mobility demands and that it's necessary to use the bus. And in that sense we understand that policies must go in two directions: First, a policy that covers the whole country, and so we need to reorder everything that has to do with the lines and really study what the mobility today is or the mobility needs that exist today. And second, a fairer tariff policy. For example, we propose to incorporate discounts for those people who are unemployed and who are a policy that benefits regardless of where those people live. And finally, in this council, we understand that this is not the time to continue devoting billions of euros to infrastructures, that priority must be road safety, that there are certainly some areas that need to improve the routes or infrastructure allocations they have, but that the priority of the Government of Greece should be that just where more problems of road safety are occurring and where there is even in number of deaths a very serious problem in our country that is the secondary roads, that there is really a plan of action that is focused on road safety and many of those pathways. With regard to the Economic, Employment and Industry Council, we believe that a policy should really be prioritized which focused on the creation of quality employment. We propose different amendments designed not to address the situation of long-term unemployed and unemployed, to act against the wage divide, to act against youth precariousness or the precarious employment of women. We also think that this country will only be able to generate jobs if it really bets on our productive base. And there are some amendments such as the allocation of EUR 4 million for innovative naval projects; EUR 2 million for the Ferrol ship repair centre, which has to be remembered as promised by President Feijó in 2009 in that election campaign, which is ending in 2015, and which was a priority in 2009 has disappeared from the agenda of the Galician Union; or other measures such as a Welsh Research Career Development Programme, which seems to us to be fundamental in the design of a new economic strategy for this country, where R+D+i has to be a key aspect. In this area, we also advocate that the fight against energy poverty, which should be a government priority, should be prioritized in the energy field, and we have amendments in that direction. Just like the impulse of a Welsh electric tariff that cuts our energy into the spolie and allows the Greeks and the Greeks to benefit from a good that is of all of us, and not that the benefits of our country's electricity generation end up in the balance sheet of one of the big companies. As far as culture and education is concerned, we propose – let's say – to rescue the culture of economic asphyxiation to which the People's Party has submitted it, with amendments, because they talk about betting for a plan of the scenic arts; for increasing support for the promotion and production of the book in Galicia, which has also suffered a substantial cut in the fruit of a political decision of the People's Party; increasing support for audiovisual production; really providing economic support for the rehabilitation and conservation policies of cultural heritage, because it seems to us incredible that at a time when a new Heritage Law is being processed this does not reflect in any way in the budgets of the coming year, that is to say, we are told that this is a law that is born dead because it is going to be born without economic endowment. We also believe in this area that we should recover the policies of recovery of historical memory or also rescue from private management the archaeology centers in our country, which we are seeing as many problems as could be in the case of Campo Lameiro. We also understand that the cuts in public education must be recovered or reduced. Of course, it seems to us that this is a policy that goes against the right to education. We propose to recover teachers, we propose to rescue the freeness of textbooks, the expansion of school lunches, also programs to promote school success or prevent school dropout, which we think are very important in a country like ours, where there are also many inequalities in access to education itself. And in relation to the university, among the amendments, because to highlight one to increase global funding for universities, which we believe remains a deficit, and therefore we have an amendment that proposes to increase that funding by 6 million euros. It also increases student and student scholarships for university access, with an amount of EUR 4 million, because we understand that everyone must have equal access to the university system and that the policy that is following the PP government is undermining this right and is moving towards an increasingly elite education. And finally, in the area of the university, too, to highlight an amendment of EUR 2 million for research projects and contracts, which we understand to be another of the strategic lines that the German Government continues to cut in an absolute way – I would say – from a political point of view. And in this field, we also understand that the German Government should rectify a policy contrary to one of our greatest heritages, our language, which is something that must unite all the Greeks and the Greeks, and that, however, the People's Party has clearly left not only in the legal field, but has also left it from the budgetary point of view, with resources that they are, which are below the level of subsistence of any language that is in such a minority situation as Galicia. And that's why we propose an amendment that increases or gives body to the application of the General Plan of Standardization of the Greek language, which we understand is still a fundamental starting point if we want to recover the uses of our language. Finally, to say that it also seems very relevant to us the whole health problem. It is clear that there has been a very significant deterioration in our country's health care, where the Galician Union has a key responsibility, because it has not only cut in an unfair way, but also led to a privatization of public services that clearly deteriorates and is against people's right to access to health. That's why we propose EUR 42 million for the reversal of Vigo's new hospital, because we understand that this hospital must be a 100 percent public hospital; we also believe that there must be some shock measures against waiting lists that are unbearable for many people, who are deteriorating people's health, and therefore we propose EUR 20 million; or to provide another kind of improvement as regards primary and personal care; or also collect through an amendment the demand for meningitis B vaccine...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-22-DSPG135.u16	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-22-DSPG135.u17	...which, as we know, is a matter that concerns a lot of people, because of the consequences it has for the lives of our children and our children. And finally – I don't even have a tweet – to say that in social policy our priority should be that dependent people don't keep waiting, that they have public resources, that they have public resources, that they also have conciliation and co-responsibility measures with new children's schools. We understand that our entire sector in the rural and fisheries sector is in a situation of serious disappearance by the Galician Union. The sailors in the siege have been camped in front of San Caetano for two months without Mr. Feijóo looking at their face...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-22-DSPG135.u18	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-22-DSPG135.u19	...certainly because he's not able to keep an eye on who's defending the bread of his children and because he knows what the responsibility of the PP is for dismantling an important part or in the situation of that unfair division of quotas. We are going to defend ourselves with our amended structural measures for the dairy sector, which really provides economic resources for the mobility policy of our country's agricultural lands, or which is actually supporting the people who want to produce in Galicia, because we understand that the Greeks and the Greeks have the right to work and that we have the right to have no one else to emigrate in a rich country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-22-DSPG135.u20	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Parliamentary Group of the Alternative Left Gallega, Mrs Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-22-DSPG135.u21	Good morning to all of you. Well, I'd like to start by pointing out that we are in the face of a dead debate; a dead debate lacking sense, lack of rationality and even lack of absolute self-interest in the Council itself in Galicia. So even the President of the Galician Council is not able to be in this Chamber today to bring that to reality that he is so worried about this country and what happens to him. Dead debate in a new reality. Maybe we should learn what's going on. What's happening is that today in our country and in our state, Counselor, they're acting on the so-called markets. Today, in our country and in our state, these so-called markets, which are non-democratic but operate every day in political life, are already putting against the ropes, through perverse and opaque elements, even the situation that has just been reflected in the polls. This is exactly what we're fighting against from the Alternative Left-Galga. We are fighting a deeply anti-democratic system, in which those who are not presented to elections are those who decide the will of the people. This is real, it's happening in the Spanish state, they're already acting through many of the indexes that are actually capable of condemning people to hunger. Not only are we in the face of a dead debate, but we are in the face of dead leaders – I speak in political terms – dead! When a leader, when the leadership of a country is unable to contemplate that his society, his people, his consciences have changed, is that it is irrelevant, that he must separate, that he must leave step, because he is dead. And this is what happens to the People's Party and hence to the budgets presented by the People's Party. You don't want to see that out there the country is standing, that out there what people in the polls say is that they want another country in which there is life, a country where farmers and farmers, where people who work in the seafood, people from good in this country, people from the naval sector, workers and workers, employees and public employees have changed and said they didn't value their policies. And you're getting into it, you're still defending a budget that doesn't serve to attack and stem the misfortune this country is living in. So a dead debate, dead leaders and the most serious: bunker politics. You guys, we can be here if you want a thousand years, if you want to be here taking the grapes of Old Year, the problem is that they're bunkered, they're stuck in that hemicycle to omit what's out there. They are caught in a sterile debate of budgets, in which I have already told them in the previous debate which almost shames them in terms of formal democracy that do not accept any amendments, and in which this time we are faced with more than the same: bunker politics. It doesn't matter what rains out there, it doesn't matter, because here we're happy, we're hot, we're hot, nothing happens at all. And, Counsellor, we are faced with some budgets that are not useful to solve the three central problems of this country: The first of the problems or the first of the purposes that should have an budget like this is to serve for the reactivation of the economy, especially in the productive sectors of this country. To reactivate the economy, the final purpose of this country, and then, without doubt, to move forward on a path of equality, not of consolidation of inequality; that's the face of its policies. First goal, don't do it. The aim is, in fact, to strengthen public services, and essentially social protection. These budgets don't meet that goal. And thirdly, they serve to create jobs, Counselor. Something of course relevant to the dynamics of almost massive exile in this country. They're not for these three objectives. It's a purely ideological budget, they're radical in their proposals. They're still defending the powerful, they're still not acting in the basic sectors and they're still working for the bank, in a debt we're going to talk about later, in a payment of a debt service that actually serves to hire more debt, and so on. But, look, budgets that continue to show the misfortune of their policies. I suppose you don't have to tell him by reading his text that when you got here the unemployment rate was 12.4%; it's numbers but it's human beings, Counselor, it's human beings. You don't have to tell him what the unemployment rate we have at present is and you don't need to tell him that your forecast in the text of these budgets exceeds 18% unemployment. I wish it were real! It won't be, but that's your forecast, it's your forecast of failure. And these budgets are what they had to do is react to what they've done. They don't do it; they don't just do it, they do it all the opposite of what they're going to do. They don't speak, even if the text itself says it, that, indeed, we have the highest low participation – if I may – in the labour market; that is, we are losing active population at exhibits, that my mother would say, at economic exile exposes – I know they don't like the denomination – and it comes because, in fact, people don't have any strikes, nor believe in public systems, that you're ending up with them. And also a central element of what you're lying about in the budget. They're selling us a job growth bat that's unreal. We're in a bad negative differential. Look what I told him, and I asked him how many times we came here, which explains to me why our country grows half the state measure. I am not able to see if today the spokesperson of the People's Party, Mr. Puy, is able to respond to the Alternative Left-Galga: why does Galicia grow to 1.8% and why does the state grow twice as much? There will be reasons, there will be reasons to explain this, Counselor, there will be reasons. Something's wrong, Counselor. And I insist: this budget doesn't serve to fix these central issues. We're on a budget where the employees and the public employees will be thrown out again. It's true that you increase pay by 1%, but you know how I am that inflation forecast is maintained like employees and public employees continue to lose purchasing power, Counsellor. These are clear numbers, they're numbers, but if the forecast follows as it is, in fact, employees and public employees will still lose purchasing power. You don't have to tell him, Counselor, that since you run this country, since 2009, 10,000 public jobs have been destroyed. Oh, dear, it's a severe thing. Ten thousand public jobs is no less important. You don't have to tell him that the increase in our people's pensions is embarrassing. You don't have to tell him. Even if I tell you we have the lowest pensions in the state. You don't have to remember that you lost more than 22% of public budget; when you got here we were over 11 billion euros in the budget. You don't have to tell him where we are today, you don't have to. You don't need to be told that this reduction in public spending, which is your imagination, your political idea -- that's very radical -- is a deliberate strategy to privatize everything. The reduction in public spending is ideology, Counselor. Of course you do, and you practice them. You don't have to tell him we're going to pay for the debt service EUR 1,598.2 million. You don't need to tell him that in that debt payment service we increased the same by 83 million euros; exactly 15.5% of the consolidated budget. You don't have to tell him, even if I don't play today and I'm going to focus on spending, but I mean, his income policy is deeply unequal and unfair; exactly in indirect taxes, you consolidate a public contribution of 31.5%. This is your policy, Mr. Counsellor: that those who have the least pay more and those who have the least pay so they actually walk around there, like Mr. Mouse on yacht. You don't have to tell her that we're in front of a new country, that's being born, that demands social justice, and that's what the budgets had to talk about: the exits to this country, our people. You don't have to tell him they're failing you; you're a dead government, a dead government. And you don't have to tell him that budgets once again are sick of three gross traps: The first one of them – I told you – is that they fake reality when they tell us that we're going to stand in the face of a downsizing. False, that tax reduction will have effects in 2017. And you're the one who provokes, as did Mariano Rajoy and Montoro in the State, is that the next Government of Galician Union, which will be left-handed, Counsellor, whatever it has to cut. That's the reality: that low-tax intended and propaganda will not be in your final mandate when it comes to it. Yes, Counselor, lying is sin, and they're lying. It's going to be in 2017, and it's going to be fortunate to be a left-wing government that's seen in the obligation to cut down, to practice adjustments for its frivolity, to be able to make politics with a scarce electoral revenue for or through public budgets. Also a second trap, the expense ceiling. Again, Counsellor: 1.8%, Ministry of Business – read, Counsellor – are lying. It predicts an increase of 4.3 when they know they won't be able to execute it. It can't be, Counselor, it can't be as long as we're on an election campaign. And thirdly, they're talking about an exceptional non-consolidable contribution of EUR 363 million. And, Counsellor, what we are in these budgets is in the face of genuine collective suicide as a society. That's what's going to happen in this country after its intended economic policies. Now they want to define which are the proposals or amendments that approach the Alternative Left Galicia, are many and many more. They are deeply disagreeing with the Government of the People's Party, which is not popular; the People's Party by name, that is not popular. To illustrate: what is the question of budgeting, the political priority of these budgets? I'm going to give a data: education, vital for the Left-Galga Alternative, vital for just predicting inequalities or social equality. And, look, by putting a data: you increase by 6 million euros – which indicates that this is your priority – private education. They increase private education by 6 million euros, reaching a record figure of 243.1 million euros. This seems to be their priority, but at the back door they're closing more than 500 classrooms, more than 100 schools. And you don't have to remember in this Chamber that we lost more than a thousand workers and teachers. That's his priority. Their priority, for example, is that concerts for vocational training are increasing by more than 2 million euros. Their priority is to shield budgets in the teaching of religion. This is your priority. And their priority, ultimately, is to make us more unequal. Why would we say that? Because in a substantial part to the Left Galician Alternative, as health policies are, you certainly increase the health budget but increase just to pay for the damn canon of Vigo's privatized hospital. And that way, Counselor, we're not going to pass and we don't agree. We tabled amendments in education of more than 64 million euros. For what? For example, for example, the creation of rural centres for research and educational innovation, for school transport, for textbooks and free and universal material for all children, for the replacement of that teaching staff of what we lack, for the training and improvement of teachers, for the prevention of school dropout, for the campaigns and the development of linguistic normalization, for the care of diversity, for a support programme in rural areas – we will not count on you as we are – for the innovation programme in educational centres, for the Galician Library Network. I don't know if they go to the libraries and look at how they are, I don't know if they go to the museums in this country, they go to Pontevedra. It's just that I think we have to walk down the street and even if we have a little time from time to time to go, even if it's enough to contemplate. I don't know if you're going to the Archaeological of Ourense, Mr. Santalices knows that; I don't know if you're going, huh? I don't know if they're understanding what's going on in the book edition in English, I don't know if they know, because we're providing more public resources for this. We want to increase contributions to the cultural bond. We want improvements at the Museum of the Galician People, of course. We want improvements in the Marco, in the CGAC... is that culture is very relevant, Counselor. Bread, work and roof, but also culture; we are human beings, the process of socialization comes around. Go if you want these places too, I recommend. We want to promote the cultural activity of our municipalities. I suppose you know how they're going, even the governments led by the People's Party; they and they also complain, they know what's going on. We want a film recovery program in Welsh. Well, mission impossible. I told you, I'm in Ferrol, my daughter, three years old, there's no public school to speak in English. Counsellor, this is the reality of this country. We also want to increase resources for the Galician Academy. We also want help to preserve our heritage. We also want help for the public archives. We also want help for the audiovisual in our country; it's very sad what's happened with great professionals in Galicia, very sad what's going on. And we really want to be linked to education, but above all to the poverty situation, to increase public resources, too, for what? For school lunchers; for a food shortage detection plan; for eco-incorporating, so that children do not eat plastic, so that they eat local, nearby and timely products – it's normal, Counsellor – so that we have a school snack program. Yes, there's hunger in this country, it's real; here we don't go hungry but out there if you're hungry, it's real. We also want a healthy breakfast program, a summer lunch program. And we also want to improve the university and above all the scholarships for the children and daughters of the workers, who, as you know, with your policy will be excluded from the public university. That's also ideological, radically ideological, and they don't want us to be in public college. That's a danger. Well, you know it and you say it very well, Pepe Mújica, of course you do; you also know it perfectly. We also make amends for us determinants in public health. First, the rescue, Mr. Counsellor, from Vigo's privatized hospital, rescues him; it's indecent to keep these policies. I also know that you professionally know that this hospital is a disgrace, you know it's a real debt to this country. We just want to rescue him. We also want a plan to create a public pharmaceutical laboratory and public research; that's what this country needs. We want to create a public health program of R & D+i, which you just privatized, and that's why we want public resources. We want the management plans that should be, not with their contributions, CHUAC, Ferrol and many other places and health areas in this country. We want a pilot school nursing plan. We want these centres of family guidance, which you were charged with because it is sin, for those who are left to improve them and continue with them. We want to improve mental health in this country. We want the prevention and promotion of health in the LGTB collective, Counsellor. I don't know if they're aware of what's going on, if they know that there's sexual diversity, that there's homosexuals, I don't know if they know it. Let's act, too. We also want a plan to reverse the privatization of high health technology. Barbary committed by the People's Party and we're going to pay the consequences. Of course we're going to pay the consequences. We want, Counselor, a new policy in Galicia, a new policy that has to be based on R & D+i. I don't know if it's also necessary to remember that your budget allocation for R & D+i is embarrassing: 0.86%; shameful, Counsellor. I don't know if you're aware that to start a new Galicia it is essential to assign strong and determined public resources in the R & D+i cross-sectionally. If we don't have technology, if we don't have knowledge, we'll never be a developed country. You act for that, so that Compostela will remain the realm of the world's tourism. We want to think, we want to contribute, we want to patent, we want to play in the first line, Mr. Counsellor, and with those budgets it's impossible. The other day I was with a professor of polymers and I was told that it was embarrassing what they were living, that it was shameful to see how people in this country were investigating, who was sad, and not a voter of the Alternative Left Glaga, was a voter of the People's Party. Shameful, Counselor, a country in destruction or a country in which you dream we're still being what we are, that our young and new are working at the hostel, in the little construction that remains, or even doing tasks that are very worthy, but of course they won't get this country out of this big seal where we've been put because of the policies of the People's Party. We really want new social policy, resources for the development of the Dependency Act. We really want new actions in fisheries policy. And in fisheries policy we tell you, Counsellor, that this aquaculture law that is going to spoil this country we are radically against. Also talk to your colleague Juan Fajardo, who has been working on this, and talk to the affected groups in this country. That statement of general interest, which will expropriate everything and hand it over to the great non-German multinationals, Counselor. In addition, we want them to investigate the phenomena of toxins, so much in what hits the Berberect and what hits the mussel, that we can predict that situation. We want there to be a plan for the sector when it can't work to have public resources, a plan to help social contributions. We want you to be sure of those people, as they had before and you were loaded. We really want an advisory and support plan for the agricultural integration of young people in rural areas. We want there to also be a relevant input of R+D+i on this subject. We want action to recover and spread the native castes. We want promotion and conversion to ecological agriculture and defence and the pulse for it. We want to encourage the stimulation of agronomic testing. We also want new industrial policies in this country. And indeed, Counsellor, it is a shame to say it again here, but we continue to defend what we have always defended: the floating dam in Ferrolterra. And we are presenting initiatives that support it, which defend the public naval sector. We want job creation actions. The first is the budget allocation that you have made disappear by more than 50% for public employment services, but specific programmes for people under the age of 45, for women, for people affected by ERE. Look, for example, at the ERE of Tragsa, what a great opportunity you have, Mr. Counsellor and the spokesperson of the People's Party, to tell us why this ERE is being practised that will have a relevant impact in this country. We also want decisive action on feminist employment. We want employment promotion linked to green jobs and, as I said before, to new technologies. We want a specific employment plan for people at risk of social exclusion, 650,000. We want an energy plan to combat energy poverty. It's real, Counselor, the other day a person was killed in the Coruña, Counselor. You know why? Think about why. That's real, like an incessant drop. Sometimes I think sincerely: it's not that they don't have a soul, that that would give a lot, that they don't have a heart, that they don't have a heart. We also want support for families at risk of energy poverty. We tabled amendments to promote social economy initiatives, which are producing magnificent results. Look at Catalonia, that Catalonia that cares so much about other things, look at the results it gives. And we also want help for second chances. It's pretty incredible that we have second-opportunity rules for companies and we don't have second-opportunity standards for people who are victims of their policies. We want a strategic plan for renewable energy. We want a block to help with solar thermal energy, geothermal energy. And we also want, as I said before, the promotion of cooperativeism and the recovery of firms, closed industries and that have been unproductive. We also want to promote equality and combat poverty in women, and that is why we present many amendments in Vice-Presidentship to improve the situation of poverty in this country and in the world, and in the world. We also want a bet decided by free software, by citizen participation; we also order amendments for this. For equality policies. We also want new policies for the privatized emergencies of this country, and we propose amendments to this. We tabled amendments to the Fairy block that have to do with the fight against tax fraud. And we also present in Vice-Presidentship amendments that have to do with the Justice of this country, the Justice of this country, with personal means, with material means, with the reinforcement of free legal assistance of lawyers and prosecutors in these times of crisis, to be able to finally define in a Welsh—and not another, not another—the Judicial Map, for the promotion of Greek in the Administration of Justice, to finally have the electronic record that does not exist in this country. We want...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-22-DSPG135.u22	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-22-DSPG135.u23	...and finished, Madam President – ultimately, justice. And, Counsellor and Counsellor, I believe that, as I said at the outset, in the face of these bunkered policies, of social extermination, of poverty, what they must do is dissolve this House. Do something sensible: listen to the people out there. They laugh a lot, but as much as they're closed here, bunkered, out there the people are standing and against you, so do something decent and call elections.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-22-DSPG135.u24	Thank you, Mrs. Díaz. Socialist Parliamentary Group. You have the word Don José Luis Méndez Romeo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-22-DSPG135.u25	Madam President. Mr Counsellor, a year ago, in this same debate, I expressed the usefulness of the parliamentary debate on budgets as planned. That every year six hundred average amendments presented by the Socialist Group and a number of several hundred who present the other opposition groups are practically rejected in block, following an aprioristic decision by the Government or the majority that supports it, without entering the arguments, without offering reasons, questions the meaning that this debate is so dilated to the Budget Act of each year. It would certainly suffice with a full debate and free the time of members of this House to address directly the complaints of citizens who need answers to their problems. Unfortunately, the poverty of the political debate, which has its highest expression precisely in the debate of budgets, is undermining the confidence of citizens in the parliamentary institution, is breaking the very foundations of Parliament. Because if this debate, which is theoretically the most important of the year, turns into a succession of sterile parliaments where the Government prevents the systematic appearance of those responsible for the main sections of public expenditure and dispatches all interventions with absolute rejection and without nuances, it is easy to conclude that the parliamentary institution has a relative futility. Today we are discussing the stage of the state of expenditure. The own limitations of the procedure limit the possible changes to the framework of each budget section. The amendments submitted by this group to the statement of expenditure affect 7% of the appropriations set out in Chapters II, IV, VI and VII, i.e. credits where it is still possible to have decision-making capacity, excluding all staff costs – staff costs – as well as financial costs. They total our amendments, therefore, 356 million euros. They were often exposed to different committee sessions, so today I will be limited to some general considerations, grouping the amendments by spending programs according to the functional budget classification. In addition, it must be noted that a high percentage of the amendments we present today have a local character, i.e., they are the encrypted expression of other so many unsatisfied demands in different places in the territory. As we announced in the legislative debate, the amendments tabled by this group can be grouped under three main headings: employment plan, boosting economic growth and strengthening of large public services. First of all, Mr Counsellor, and of course, employment. With over 220,000 unemployed people and a large number of people who don't charge benefits, we can't talk about overcoming the crisis. Under Mr. Feijóo's presidency we have fewer busy people than in 2009, 117,000, and fewer active people. Both the employment rate and the activity rate are among the lowest in Spain. Correlationally, membership of Social Security evolves worse than the state average, measured monthly or measured annually. And if we look at the distribution of employment by age, we find that the presence of under 30 in jobs, in real employment, has fallen with you in half. In September this year there were 103,448 persons receiving unemployment benefit. I'm 20% less than a year ago. Of these, half received subsidies; 40%, contribution benefits; and the rest, active income for insertion. And 111,000 people didn't get any help; they're people who want to work, they're registered in the job service and they don't get income; they're now totally excluded. You have acted over these years against people who have stopped, not only with regressive labour reform, but also with the loss of dismissal, but also with active employment policies. They've halved employment budgets. At the worst of the crisis, you withdrew half of the recruitment, reintegration or training programme funds, even drastically reduced the staff of the Employment Service. Consequence: long-term unemployment is consolidated. With our amendments we propose to increase the budget forecast by 98 million euros, which represents 50% more than you propose, and we propose to extend it to care for groups with more difficulties of employability: women over 45 years old, young people and long-term unemployed. And also to encourage the return of so many people who had to emigrate, to boost the employment of people with disabilities and also to improve the salary for insertion. And we also propose through amendments to associate local corporations with employment programs, a channel of proven effectiveness, as well as strengthening the public services that care for the unemployed, who have been razed by you to the benefit of – dubious – outsourcing. A few weeks ago, the Labour Council was missing to dilute into the industry. An open recognition of the failure of employment policy, but also a cosmetic change, because nothing has changed so far, and there is no indication that it will change in employment policy. They follow the same inertia, the same lack of impulse, and therefore predictably the results will be sadly similar. With regard to economic growth, we propose measures in two areas: investment in physical capital and support for the productive sectors. You have renounced an investment policy that was anticyclical, you have lowered real investments by 53% and even more execution. Our amendments to roads, ports, water and other infrastructures are a catalogue of needs across the country, essential for improving competitiveness, communications and services. In this catalog of needs, which is a true record of complaints sent by many Greek municipalities, there are over 200 infrastructure actions, fully identified, as well as another 15 public promotion housing actions, where their policy has been cut down by 76%, depriving many people of access to a decent and affordable housing. Here again, the deterioration of wages is added to the increase in precariousness and the de facto disappearance of a housing policy, which is one of the main expenditure chapters of the family economy. In the field of productive sectors, we have outlined amendments for a total amount of EUR 40 million, including aspects such as the shipbuilding industry, where we propose to resume the repair centre projects in the Vigo River and floating dam in the Ferrol River, with the aim of taking advantage of Galicia's geographical position in the world maritime traffic, with larger post-Panamax ships, as well as with support measures for the auxiliary industry. We propose a number of initiatives to support technology transfer in competitive industrial sectors, such as the auxiliary automotive industry, to prevent competition in Portugal or Morocco from being exclusively at wage costs. Or the mechanical metal industry, which suffers the consequences of wind paralysis and needs to diversify production. Also in the aeronautical sector, currently expanding. We also propose amendments to diversification in business monoculture areas or to help non-metallic mining and gain dimension. In the field of energy, we propose coherent amendments to the lines supported by the European Union for energy efficiency, for example by supporting self-consumption, energy alternatives and renewable energies, such as minialytics, biomass or geothermals, for their application in the family, agro-ganger or pemes areas. In particular, I underline the amendments to R & D policies, which you have reduced by 16%, in an inverse trend to that of the European Union. We propose a 20% increase on these figures to continue research projects and the professional careers of researchers, avoiding what happens to their policy of cutting, which leads to the disappearance of research teams and the loss of comparative positions in a highly competitive activity internationally. And finally, in the primary sector we propose to increase the improvement of forest masses, as well as different actions of partial concentration and of course support for the dairy sector. Finally, in the social policy chapter and the strengthening of public services, we tabled 54 amendments to the education credits, to improve equity and equal opportunities, in line with the countries around us. These amendments are based on the reports of international agencies, which alert us to the main problems we have in Galicia: raising the rate of repeaters and early abandonment, deficiencies in the use of new technologies and mediocre results in the system as a whole. This is not only about the overall score in the PISA tests, always questionable, but also about the internal distribution, where the results of excellence are very low, both in absolute figures and compared to other countries and communities. This government, after seven years, has neglected the school building park, its conservation, and today the complaints are continuous, as is evident at every session of the 4th Commission. We propose a report of 43 necessary actions in so many other centres. In addition, we propose to increase the operating costs of educational centres, which have been severely reduced in recent years, which has an impact on the learning activity itself. You have had a great interest in imposing coffers on school dining rooms, but none in controlling the quality of the service, which has been delivered in many cases to external companies and, for the continued news, without rigorous controls. On the other hand, you have an ideological fixation with equal opportunities. They choose to segregate even in minor matters. The help of textbooks has been able to put against booksellers and professionals; the booksellers, because they're funding the Council in a forceful way, because it takes months to collect what they have to do before; and the teachers, because they're more burdened with work. In seven years they did not take any firm steps towards the introduction of e-books or the use of the network in the learning process. Internet penetration in terms of connection speed is very poor in many places in Galicia, not only rural, due to the deficiencies of telecommunications companies. In his day we warned of these problems in the process of the Welsh Telecommunications Law. You just wanted one more legal text and the results were irrelevant. On all these matters, Counsellor, we have made amends, also to improve the training practices of vocational training students. We know that culture for this government is indispensable. Since 2009 the budget has dropped by 56%. Here, moreover, there was no discrimination: all sectors of culture have been postponed, in some cases in a powerful manner. What will you have against culture? Thus, public libraries deserve the supreme contempt of the Government. For funds, promotion and dynamisation propose the fourth part that in 2009. I know that you are not the only open enemies of culture, that the Government of Spain can do as much, for example, with the 21% VAT on cultural products. Obviously, when the only known reading known to the President of the Government is the sports press, what can one expect from the public reading? It's a non-subliminary message about the value of culture for the Government of Spain, and the Government of Greece takes this guideline to the extreme. Last week we knew that Galicia was the autonomous community where more libraries were closed and where the lowest reading rates are also. Counsellor, these are boisterous indices on the Spanish scale and bohornos on the European scale, which will not unfortunately vary with the budget they propose. I'm talking about abandoned libraries, because in the advanced countries around us libraries are the community's real cultural centers, but I could add here theater, plastic or visual arts, music. The Government's initiative is minimal and budgets are passive. Nor does Televisión Galega deal with culture, except for exceptional and minimal programmes in duration. I ask you, Counselor, I ask this government when a campaign to promote cultural products, which are affordable products, which can be shared, which enrich the spirit, which does not harm. I'm talking, of course, about books, records, but also about theatrical performances and musical concerts or cinematographic exhibits, because, in addition to their intrinsic value for people, they represent a cultural industry where we have the ability to compete in foreign markets; here we are at the international level, and you are entirely on the back. And if I speak in heritage culture, the third part of the BICs, of cultural interests, are at risk. Here we present a detailed relationship to act in different landmarks of the heritage. Of course, in the context of cultural policy, it highlights the budget in the City of Culture, which has grown by 50% with you and now absorbs 14% of the total cultural budget in Galicia. That high cost in one infrastructure alone, Counselor, does not sympathize with the irrelevance of many of the activities there developed or with the impact on the public, nor with the impact on the creation or the impact on Galicia's external projection. The City of Culture is the image of an outdated cultural policy. We propose initiatives on the mentioned aspects and of course on language promotion, reduced by 70%, given more eloquent than any speech. We propose, in addition to increasing the budget in the language, to strengthen the funding of the Royal Galaga Academy. After the many debates we have been promoting in this House, we could not stop proposing amendments to the full recovery of the public ownership of the Vigo hospital and its services; a measure we consider to be of aid effectiveness, financial savings and affirmation of the public health service. And if I talked about infrastructure needs in the country before, in the field of public services, they're still enormous. Thus, we relate 37 performances in health centers, in non-existent cases, in other cases saturated or overpowered by demand, and 43 performances in many other schools and 22 in social services centers. We pay attention, in addition, to two social spending programs: the social services program in the municipalities, which went down to half with you, and where we propose directly duplicate it. They are being receivers of countless demands, while the Government of the Union, by budget and by regulation, tries to drown them, reduce transfers and multiply the coops. Similarly, in view of the lack of income that many families suffer, we propose to increase by a third the anti-exclusion fighting program, which with you has been reduced in these years by nothing less than 60%, Counsellor. And finally, I quote a 9 million-euro amendment to the fight against poverty and to increase non-contributory pensions, which are the lowest among the casualties. The reality is tenuous and we have over 33,000 homes in which no income comes in, and you plan in your budgets – din in memory – a benefit of income of social inclusion from Galicia to 9,900 people. It's not even 30% of the homes that have no resources, Counselor. Severe poverty has increased, because long-term unemployment is chronicling, and that is why we have 73,000 homes with all its members unemployed. To talk about social policy in Galicia means to remember that the sum of pensioners and unemployed already exceeds the number of employees, that in 60% of the municipalities the average age exceeds 50 years and that for every under 20 years we have seven retired. It's the portrait of a country in trance of extinction, aggravated by the selective emigration of the best-formed people who are at the age of procreation. This declining trend can only be reversed by seeking higher employment rates, increasing female employment and improving public services in rural areas. And so far his policy has been in the opposite direction; year after year the data from the Statistical Institute are drawing a country with no future. There are many other problems reflected in our amendments, from the push of free software to the licenses opened in the Welsh administration or the creation of platforms of services with content adapted to different groups, to support the folding sector, to extend it to more audiovisual or entertainment products. In justice, among other amendments, we propose the improvement of free legal assistance. In tourism we do not forget to support the creation of thematic and geographic routes, now only developed, or the promotion of the Greek airports in the markets of origin. In the same line, we propose to value places of environmental interest, with the creation of routes, paths and other equipment. And in the Business Council, the reinforcement of the fight against tax fraud, which is a way to increase income and where the current joint effort is manifestly better. I'm done. Today, the last budgets of this legislation are approved. It's 70,000 euros, Counsellor, in seven years, 1.5 times the German GDP. It's a very relevant figure, and yet the country's data is more worrying today than they were at the time of 2009. Hopes are smaller, but needs are greater. You're used to speaking in all your interventions of the inheritance you've received. It's a ridiculous argument, because in the history of autonomy you ruled twenty-eight years, almost continuously, with slight interruptions, twenty-eight years before six years of coalition governments around the Socialist Party and fragmented into two periods. In percentage terms, 83% of the history of Galicia has been presided over by you. It's impossible to ignore that data. They have always ruled with an absolute majority, disregarding contributions – today is one more show – suggestions, alternatives. This afternoon the votes will probably be ratified in that attitude. They are, therefore, directly responsible for the state of the country, for the severe limitations we suffer and for the deplorable horizon that the new generations have. The Budget Law will be the seventh chance lost, certainly with our opposite vote. The slight improvement of public accounts in 2016 – we recognize that it is there – does not imply any strategic novelty, no action aimed at correcting structural problems. They raise their expenses slightly to do exactly the same performances. The results are predictable, as predictable as propaganda. They will understand that neither the content of the state of expenditure nor the strategic lines failed, nor their attitude during the budgetary debate of absolutely rejecting everything, can lead us to another position which is not to reject the state of expenditure proposed. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-22-DSPG135.u26	Thank you, Mr. Méndez. People's Parliamentary Group. Mr. Puy Fraga has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-22-DSPG135.u27	Thank you very much, Madam President. At this very moment, the same debate is taking place, only in the Balearic Community, of the budgets and a curious circumstance was given, just at the time when a Socialist Party on the Balearic Islands, named Silvia Limones, spoke, had known a few minutes before he played the lottery, specifically the second prize. I, unfortunately, can't congratulate anyone on this happy thing. By the way, a member of the PP suggested that he had contributed something to the issues of the Autonomous Public Fair, and she no doubt objected to the joy of the moment, that there was no need to mix things with others, because there are indeed anecdotals about it. But, in any case, she said she defended budgets better, having touched her lotteries than she didn't. I consider and regret that I am going to defend them without I know that I have played the lottery, but what it corresponds to, before I begin, if I allow myself, is to congratulate the fellow hemicycles that in the last electoral process, held last Sunday, were elected – I did it yesterday before the media and I want to do it personally –: Mrs. AGE Yolanda Díaz, who will represent the Spanish nation as a whole in Congress of Deputies – no, no, no, sovereignty, as you know, the Constitution is clear on this issue – as the President of Parliament, Mrs. Pilar Rojo, as well as our bandmate Paula Prado, by course, the most voted senator in the set of the four provinces of Greece. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Applause]] Obviously, we passed, without so much illusion, as if I had played the lottery, to defend the project brought by the Commission, which was adopted as a dictate. Well, as you know, budgeting has many visions and many definitions, therefore, and to me that I like, without any doubt, is that it defines it as the economic plan of the political group, because it highlights basically what we are talking about, the political character of the budget document, by the very technical accounting that requires its elaboration and by the very legal norm that it is, both in its origins, already mentioned in parliamentaryism, and above all because it is true that budgets reflect many societal conflicts, and above all reflect the response given to the problems that society has. I therefore believe that today the reform of the Rules of Procedure allows us to have a more political and accounting speech, of small amendments that have been discussed in committee for each of the states of expenditure, and that is what I intend to do today. We are indeed faced with the seventh budgets – which will not be the last, although they will be the last of this legislation – that presents this majority, and they obey an obvious economic policy, because, essentially, when we talk about the budget document as a political document, what we are doing is making economic policy decisions to achieve certain objectives. Targets already know what they are, I don't want to be heavy, even recall some basic issues of public estate. The objectives, as always, are to ensure the growth and stability of the growth of an economy, to achieve redistributive objectives – i.e. to improve the equality of the social group – and finally to improve the allocation of resources in the provision of public goods, because that is the very nature of budgetary expenditure. These three objectives, which are the traditional ones that the theory of the public farm since the 1950s has been consolidated as the objectives of economic policy, are made with two instruments. On the one hand, through income, that is, through tax instruments, where all objectives can be achieved in a variety of ways. With taxes it can be achieved to improve redistribution, with taxes it can be achieved to improve economic growth, with taxes it can also be achieved – as it does not – to allocate resources better, which probably if they remained in private hands, would not contribute to financing public goods that we all demand, such as health, education, roads, security, etc., etc. But we also have the public spending instrument, and public spending is also an instrument that serves to improve economic growth, not only by reinforcing the joint investment of society through public investment, but also by ensuring a certain income policy, for example. Public spending also serves, this is something that the opposition repeatedly forgets, reaching conclusions I think surprising for the vast majority of society, as public spending cannot be redistributive, because public spending has to be the same for all, whatever the situation of family income, which benefits from certain public spending; it is the case of school eaters, so many times mentioned, but that could be extended to many other issues, such as university teaching. And, therefore, we have taken into account, and here there is a first fundamental divergence with the arguments of opposition, I find myself surprising, because I find myself surprising, because at the bottom of this is leaving aside what is a fundamental weapon to fight against inequality, which is the redistributive component of public expenditure, and here there is a first fundamental divergence with the arguments of opposition, I find myself surprising, because at the bottom is to leave aside what is a fundamental weapon to fight against inequality, which is the redistributive redistributive component of public expenditure, which is the redistributive component of redistributive public expenditure, but in addition, there is that, in addition, the public expenditure has such a component so redistributive component that all studies for Spain all the whole of all the studies for Spain what they say is clearly distinguishing what are divisible and indivisible public spending, because you know that there are public spending spending at the university university university university colleges that there are more advantageous expenses in life than other than others, and therefore, and therefore we are talking about that there are talking about the benefits of the public spending, the public spending, for the national defences that they favours that they favours and profit and profit and profit and profit and profit and profit and profit and profit which they from profit and profit from the income in which they in which they in favours in favours, the profit and profit and profit which they have the profit in favours in favours in favours in favours in which they have no fairs as many people have no fairs as many people have no fairs, and profit and profit and profit and profit and profit and are not have no profit and are made in which have no fair wealth and profit and are made in the profit and are made in the profit and are made by profit and are made in terms, and profit and profit and are made in terms and are made in terms, and are made by profit and are made by profit and profit and are made by profit in terms and are made by profit and profit in the profit and profit and are made by profit and profit, and are made by profit, and are made by profit and are made by people in the profit, and are not people in terms, and profit, and profit, and profit, and profit and profit and profit and profit and are made by profit, and are made by profit and are made by profit, and are not people in the profit and The essential part of our redistributive system is public spending, and yet, well, we do not understand this basic principle, because there will be a fundamental discrepancy. If we lose sight of the fact that redistribution, the impulse of the economy, as well as the allocation of resources, is the whole of the budgets, both income and expenditure, for it is really difficult to accept certain amendments from there, that what they want is just to deprive of that redistributive component of the public expenditure, equal to that which is not equal, equal to a free dining room the son of a well-known Greek businessman who has long-term unemployment and has no income in his family – this is obvious – and from there it is more difficult to collect because some of the suggestions. And I'm saying it's surprising that I've already reported, as a result of some amendment from the Joint Group, that I wanted to set an autonomous IRPF tariff of 50%, to which I would have to add the maximum type of State IRPF, i.e. that we would go to maximum rates of 80%, i.e. expropriators clearly. Of course, in that philosophy yes, in absolute egalitarian philosophy that would be consistent, it would be that we would get everything that we all entered and that the spending would be the same for everyone. That ideal is, of course, the only person who translated it into amendments was the Member of the Joint Group. We don't share it. I understood that the European Social Democracy, the Social Democracy of Valls, which has even reformed how to overcome the aid to children, would be legendary in France and very positive to the family, to the income of families, but, however, good, for that is philosophy. The instruments, both income and expenditure, must be used in the appropriate context, or in the context in which budgets are approved, and the context has institutional conditions, economic conditions and of course social conditions. What are the institutional variables that most affect us and that we consider to be more important and that again lead us to have many problems to accept any amendment, particularly from the groups to the left, and also in some circumstances from the Socialist Party Group? First of all, we believe in the European Union project, we believe in the single currency, and we also believe that it is not bad for the Spanish economy for the political restrictions on budgetary policy that introduce the construction of the European Union. We continue to trust that Europe is the best environment for a democratic Spain, for a Spain that creates jobs, for a Spain that grows, for a Spain and a Galicia, logically, that must continue to grow and grow. You say we're being devalued. Well, I want to remember that in times when the Spanish economy lost competitiveness what was being done was a monetary devaluation, or it would resort to fictitious indebtedness – it was due to the ticket machine – or directly devalued the value of the Spanish currency, and what we did was lose competitiveness and wages to crying. In the socialist era, if one compared what was worth the peseta in the ecu – the precedent of the euro – with respect to the rate of exchange that was made when we entered the euro, 50% of the purchasing power of the peseta was lost in relation to the European average, which was the ecu, and more for example with currencies such as German, as the frame. That's what I meant? I meant that a Spanish worker in relation to a German earned 50% less pay. That's a devaluation. What happens is that, as I continued to earn the same in the peseta monetary term, because it almost passed away, and what we were doing was to generate an economy that was losing and still losing, and therefore continues to lose competitiveness, and therefore continues to lose the chances of entering into a world that – whether we want it or not – is increasingly globalized, and therefore we were losing the opportunity to guarantee a better future for the Greeks and the Greeks, for the Spaniards and the Spaniards, who are part of this project that is the European Union. That is the reality, and therefore we continue to understand that these restrictions, that indeed when you have to say them, because you did not act in coherence with the obligations of a single market and a single currency that imposed because the cheap loan had to invest it well and not in the brick, and that the wages had to rise according to productivity and not rise as three or four times each year, three or four points more than in the middle of the European Union, well, well, because that really explains part of a disaster that now, in a naive, good way, because some people regard the expansive policy of the Central Bank – this is the case of former Minister Sebastian – although I think the problem is ours, not the Central Bank; it is always good that they give you financing facilities, which is not good at spending it in an unproductive sector, of little future, as it is the brick, which was what happened in Spain. I already know that this is not something I can do to admit that this starts in the late years of the Government of the People's Party of José María Aznar, and the problem is that, when we started eating, we continued not only to eat, but we were already in an extra cooking, which was what made the Spanish economy eventually explode from 2010, right? Well, we continue to maintain that the stability pact is important, which gives a keynesian margin for spending when there is more than income, when there is an economic crisis. This is certainly the case in Article 135 of the Constitution, and it is already recognised that in the event of an economic crisis there is no need to meet the objective of budgetary stability, of the primary public deficit, that is, of what we would have had in the event that there was full employment of all resources. And, therefore, from there it is also difficult to accept many of the amendments, because to arrive here and say – forgive the honourable Member in Congress that refers to her directly – "we want", "we want", "we want", "we want", I don't know whether it's the letter to the Magi Kings, or, as you are laity, it is the letter to Michey Mouse, which is the alternative that is given to letters in Santiago to send the children's requests, but, in any case, "we want", "we want", "we want", "we want", and at the end the Magos or Michey Mouse so they have to make their income and expenses balance, even to give them an answer to the deserved letter that the children send to the Magos Kings or Michey Mouse, right? So we have a problem there that obviously leads us to match more possibly than you think with some economists that you usually throw at our face, for example Stiglitz. With regard to Spain, Stiglitz has written that the solution is Europe, that it is necessary to create a European solidarity fund, that there is not only a need to act in the field of monetary policy, where there has been a great deal of progress in banking reform and in control of the Central Bank and national banks, but also progress towards a European policy that takes account of the existence of asymmetric crises as a whole. And that's what we've been asking for for for many years, and unfortunately I have to say that there is a resistance not to understand that monetary union also brings about a certain transfer union, which is what gives fundamentally to some Nordic country, and not exclusively to the Germans, and not exclusively to the Christian Democrats, but it gives them allergy to many Nordic countries ruled by social democracy as well. This is the institutional context. The economic context already refers to it when we speak in the admission debate, and since then there have been many new developments. I mean, if you've confirmed that Galicia has grown by 0.7% in the third quarter and is growing by 2.1% annually, and that all diagnoses agree to say that, at least, the target of GDP growth by 2015 was already met, which was going in last year's budgets. The positive data has happened since we had the admission debate. Firstly, employment – uh!, employment: use of EPA so there is no doubt – in Spain, according to the last EPA, 8.04, unemployment, and Galicia the 9.44, for using the most commonly accepted data. That means that Galicia exceeds the million full-time jobs for the first time since 2011, that is, since the year the People's Party won elections at the general level. The workers affected by ERE, therefore, are going down, around 40%. According to the State Tax Administration Agency, Greek companies are earning money again after reducing their red numbers by 66% in the last year. Companies and families in creba fall by 46% in the third quarter. The competitions fall by 23% in October and accumulate a 31% decrease in all of the year. Sales of industrial vehicles rise by 80% in Galicia and increase by 50% in all of the year. Industrial production rises by 5.5 in October. And Galicia and Balearics get the best retail sales rates in October. All this means is that you are proposing, in addition, amendments to some budgets that do not exist, which are outside the real economic situation. I like – and I understand why, because it is a magnificent report – to refer to the report of the Economic Forum in Galicia. You directly asked me if I told you why Galicia is growing up to a differential other than Spain. It's there in the report – I know you like to read and you know some of your authors – and you can see perfectly that Galicia's growth differential with Spain is basically for two factors, which are public spending, which is lower in Galicia, first of all; secondly, for private consumption, which is lower in Galicia; but, nevertheless, it's much better in exports, which is much better in investment, and that besides the production it's growing in Galicia are production goods, intermediate goods, and not direct consumption goods, right? Well, what does this give us, Mrs. Díaz? For what we have spoken so many times – and I repeat again – gives us a pattern of growth much healthier, much healthier than one based solely on consumption and which, as in the case of Spain, one where consumption is what takes away from exports, and not like in Galicia, which are the exports that take away from GDP and not from consumption. Now, to say all of this, I mean that since then it's also sunk. In the month of October, Welsh exports grew by 10%, while imports by only one 2. Because what happens in Spain is that when exports grow, imports also grow, hence consumption; more is consumed and the balance deteriorates. In Galicia we've improved, since we've admitted the budget process, the commercial balance. And so, I think it's an explanation that the growth rates of the 2, and that are in forecast for the year that has just been exceeded, are very consistent rates with job creation even without job reform. Well, as you will understand, we can always say that GDP is the criterion for better measuring how an economy evolves or net economic well-being. I mean, you know there's a lot of debates about whether GDP is reverend or not. But I think with these growth rates and those parameters, which are the ones that push the growth rates, because we're in a totally different situation than the ones the opposition spokespersons described. I understand it's hard to recognize that things are going well after six years saying they're going to get worse. I understand it must be complicated to get here after last year they literally laugh at us because we announce a growth of the Greek economy this year of 2% and it turns out that we're at 2.1. I understand it, but reality is what it is. And finally, there are political conditioners, but that political conditioner isn't what's in Madrid. In Madrid, as you know, in the state, until now there is growth, a significant change in the Spanish economy – like Galicia – and now we are entering an era of political instability, right? Fortunately, we have an approved budget. Today the general coincidence of all political analysts is that less bad than with this political situation the budgets for next year are approved, with which the tensions of the financial markets and the other tensions that can be generated in the investment in Bolsa, etc., will certainly be seen pale, right? But, well, what is true is that this budget reflects a political situation of stability of a solidarity government that allows us to bring accounts and approve them at its own time, and, in addition, some accounts that – as I will now remember – are the accounts that suit the Greek economy. Let's see, these assumptions are the first expansions of the last seven, the first expansions since the crisis. And they're really expansive. Expansiveness is not how they announce in some council – I'm not going to say which – because it just grows public spending. If public spending grows based on taxing citizens' money, that budget is not expansive, that assumption is to increase and replace public spending by citizens' private spending. An expansive budget when not only increases public spending – which is the case in Galicia, in more than 360 million euros – but also because, in addition, the citizens of Greece, as a result of the tax policy of the Union, will have more resources to consume and invest in. And, therefore, public spending will contribute to dynamizing the economy, but also private family spending, because they're going to have more money. And here comes another of the great criticisms that you make, which is that it doesn't fit the circle. Let's see, it's just that I understand that when you're used to seeing vicious circles, which were those of the socialist economy, because it's hard to understand what a virtuous circle is, which is what we now have in the Greek economy and in the Spanish economy. That's not square, it's a circle; what happens is it's seen in the right direction, in the direction of a virtuous economy, not in the direction of a defective economy. 500 million more of the autonomic financing system, they're committed by the state and they're going to give them, so there's 500 million of income. European funds are about EUR 100 million more, and we also have the state, the Government of the People's Party, this year introduced a system of financial parallelity for the deficit-compliant communities, including Galicia, for which zero interest can be paid for the debt. That's what this year's budget for Junta is worth 65 million euros. If you add all of this, then you'll see that about 600 million euros are coming out, 600 million euros that the Board does not spend alone, but it returns to citizens by reducing the tax pressure on the IRPF. And it's done in an absolutely progressive way, that is, they're going to pay less IRPF those who have less income. I'm here, Mrs. Díaz – you smile – you look at the guy you have for those who earn less than 12,000 euros in your amendment and you'll see that those who earn less than 12,000 euros make them pay, and you'll see that the other groups in the House all agree that those who earn less than 12,000 euros don't pay the income tax. And since tax pressure drops to lower incomes, consumption will be encouraged. [[Applause]] But, in addition, we will help capitalize families, because precisely a tax on capital, which is that of hereditary successions – as you know – from EUR 400,000, will continue to tax, but below not. With which many families, basically middle or small income, what they're going to have is the possibility of capitalizing without paying taxes through succession taxes what inherits from their parents. So this is expansive on the income side, but it's also expansive on the expense side. And on the side of the expenditure I want to remind you of some of the issues: health is going to raise 100 million euros this year's budget, 92 in education, 69 in social policies and 17 in employment funds. And all of this managing well and saving. One of the issues – just got to the House, I recommend that they look at it – is how pharmaceutical spending has evolved in Galicia. The pharmaceutical expenditure in 2009 was in 924 million; in 2010 it rose to 931 million euros/year, official prescription pharmaceutical expenditure in Galicia; currently it is at 681 million euros, without falling the prescriptions that doctors demand and therefore serve to medication patients. The difference is very consistent, it is more than 200 million euros, but it is that in this period of time in health, without diminishing the service that citizens receive, Junta has saved 812 million euros, which allow for other health expenses. For example, another subject that has given much to talk about in this House for those who say that we have no soul no longer, but that we have no heart – which is already a form, that of the soul, as it is theological, because you can understand that you do not have it, but that of the heart is quite easy to see that you have a heart – and it turns out that we already have 50% of the patients with hepatitis C vaccinated, when you remember what was said here, for example, right?; but, well, finally. And so on, right? I don't want to remind you of many things, but it's obvious that there's a 36% increase in family benefit; there's going to be 10,000 new beneficiaries, an 8.6 increase in care; the risk goes up to 53 million euros. And so on, in education, in training and employment as well, 75% of the Youth Employment Plan, specifically, 15% in total growth in active policies, 7.5 million more in training for firms in strategic sectors. And so on, improvements in R & D+i, in competitiveness, investments in infrastructure, improvements in educational centres, an increase of €2.5 million compared to last year, rises the departure of transport and school dining. And so on. We've also improved university funding, and we've also managed to do something that was fair, which is to give public servants some of the purchasing power that's been lost mainly since the decision to lower them 5% of the salary, at the hardest stage of the Zapatero Government. And that's going to be since 2010 that discount was made the first increase in government employees' payrolls in Galicia, an increase of 1%, which seems little, but with the inflation we're having – which some years is being even negative – because it implies regaining the purchasing power lost. And at the same time 327 million euros more for investment. So it's understood that BBVA because it says that the Greek economy is going to grow almost 3 next year and that all economic predictions are good. A third criticism you've made throughout this debate is that all this is electoralist and smoke and are unrealistic because we don't do it. Well, here are the reports. FEDEA report, year 2014; income budget, which is or allows to finance the expenditure: "By autonomous communities, those that present higher deviations between the rest of the budgeted revenue and those who obtained are Extremadura, La Rioja, Valencia and Cantabria. On the other hand, the autonomous communities that presented income above the budgeted were Canary Islands, Basque Country, Balearics and Galicia" – we met the income budgets or 2014–. Compliance with the deficit: Navarra, Galicia and Basque Country, the only ones in 2015, another Report from FEDEA. Ministry of Public Affairs: "The autonomous communities of Galicia, Canary Islands, Basque Country and Navarre have fulfilled their objective of budgetary stability in 2014" – we meet revenue, we meet expenditure on budgets. "The Court of Auditors has praised Galicia's good management in reducing the deficit by meeting the budget." And, finally, Airef, 2014 by 2015: "The achievement of the deficit target by 2015 is considered very likely in the case of the autonomous communities of Galicia, Navarra and Basque Country." The two holes, with good funding for the system, especially, and Galicia, the only one in the common regime. Then there are others that are likely and many that are unlikely. But in addition, on the fulfilment of the budgets for 2016, there is a report – I would recommend that one of the many visits of a member of this House to a public library would certainly ask you to do so – "Report on the projects and fundamental lines of the budgets of Galicia for 2016" by Airef, who, of course, is out of all doubt his neutrality, for the events we know: "It is likely that the Autonomous Community of Galicia meets the objective of budgetary stability in 2016. The likely compliance in 2015, which was already reflected in the report of 15 July on expected compliance and which is confirmed with the data to date, makes the effort to be made possible around 0.4 of GDP. To carry out this adjustment, in 2016 the Community has increased system resources subject to account delivery and subsequent liquidation of 0.7 of GDP. This margin..." -I ask for attention - "...can absorb, without compromising the objective of stability of the financial year, the lowest collection derived from the Community's tax reduction and the expected increase in expenditure in absolute values". Here's the square of the circle, Airef, this is not the People's Party, and as you always say that I am, for there it is. Well, finally, ladies and gentlemen, we are going to support the Commission's statement, we are going to support it. And I want to remember, to conclude, something that said to a deceased person, by me very dear, not in this room but yes in this institution, the day that the first budgets of the Autonomous Community of Galicia were approved; it was Carlos Otero Díaz, the first adviser of Economics and Business, and said, "The power to create a budget itself as an expression of the political will itself in the most appropriate way to the needs of our own instruments is the essence of financial autonomy." I believe that today, as in the Far East of November 82, these expansive budgets, which lighten the tax burden on citizens, which rise markedly the social expenditure of the Autonomous Community, which reduce the indebtedness of the Autonomous Community, are the right ones as an expression of the political will to achieve a society that grows more economically, that is more fair and that provides public goods to all the Greeks and Greeks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-22-DSPG135.u28	Thank you very much. The turn of the parliamentary groups to define the amendments that are being defended by others. Joint Group. Mrs. Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-22-DSPG135.u29	Well, I want to start with some of the statements Mr. Puy has made now, because, when they talk about employment, there are a million jobs at the end of the full day since the year 2011 for the first time, I resist talking about employment without talking about the quality of the job that is created. It's not worth having a 100% job if each worker's salary doesn't allow him to live with a minimum of dignity and meet his basic needs. That's why you can't boast about job creation when the job you're creating is so precarious that it compels workers and workers to live as if they were unemployed. So there is not such a job quality that has been created, but it is creating very precarious jobs, possibly with wages of misery. I begin by announcing that I will support the amendments tabled by the opposition, which, moreover, in many cases are coincidental or similar, which has not prevented the rejection of the People's Party, because the problem is the difference between which are the priorities that the German Government has to shorten with its budgets, basically that. And then we'll also talk about that wonder of tax reduction and its justification. To quote some of those who draw the attention that the People's Party rejects after this election campaign, where it has made a lot of social promises, I will mention some, for example, the rejection of Amendment No. 3 of the Socialist Party, so that the deadlines for granting and abolishing the risk are met, and to abandon the most precarious people and with more needs. Or Amendment No 40 from the Socialist Party, on the extraordinary single pension and non-contributory allowances, setting a lower and not higher limit, i.e. ensuring that all these pensioners cover a minimum of 220 euros, rather than a maximum of 120 euros, as proposed by the project. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] There are also examples of rejected amendments that affect transparency. After so much bragging about a law of transparency, when the time comes for truth and for concrete measures to shape that transparency, the People's Party opposes it. This is the case with the amendment 7 of the PSOE on the supervision by the Board of Auditors of contracts and grants granted; the amendment 23 of the BNG and 29 of the PSOE on public-private procurement and the granting of public works; the amendment 25 of the AGE, which includes the obligation of information to the Greek Parliament on organic law 2/2012, on budgetary stability and financial sustainability; the amendment 30 of the Socialist Party, which requests public information on advertising and advertising costs; the amendment 30 of the BNG and 35 of the Socialist Party, on the establishment of an Office of Budgetary Control; or the amendment 30 of the AGE, which adds a new final provision for amending the Board of Auditors. Of course, I will support all amendments aimed at returning their rights and wages to workers and public workers, because the People's Party comes here to highlight the return of part of the extra payment and a 1% increase in wages, which does not compensate for by far everything that has been withheld from workers and public workers, for not to mention that the cuts are kept in the rest of the rights that have been usurped to them. I will also support those who are going to increase the 100% replacement rate, thus ensuring the quality of public services, those who are going to be able to increase the wages of the Welsh Public Administration staff above 1%; there are proposals of 1.5%, of 3%, of various, but everyone understands that the 1% limit is really scarce. Also the amendments aimed at limiting the formula of consultation with educational centres. We have to bet on health and public education, while – another great difference – the People's Party continues to spend public money in working with private entities instead of defending and supporting public services. Also the rules that set up an autonomous scale of more fair progressive IRPF. It's not exactly the IRPF scale and it doesn't benefit people with less income, it's not true. The scale proposed by the People's Party continues to benefit the great fortunes much more than the popular classes. The average wages of Galicia are the most punished by this reform proposed by the People's Party. I will also support those who are going to prevent collective bargaining from continuing to be emptied of content, both in the service of public administrations and in the service of private companies, as is the case with the provision in additional ninth with regard to concerted education or the additional tenth with regard to Sergas staff. Collective bargaining is a worker's right, it's a worker's achievement, that the People's Party wants to end it, and we're not going to allow it. The workers and workers, the working class rejects their labour reform, rejects their measures in recruitment and rejects the death actually that you are causing in collective bargaining and, therefore, the inability of the working class to defend their rights. I will also vote in favour of Amendment No 20 from the BNG, which calls for the removal of Article 31, which introduces greater precariousness in public education. And I will also support Amendment No 21 of AGE, on environmental damage tax, which has been rejected, as is Amendment No 22 of AGE, on the tax of large commercial areas, drinks with high content in sugars, empty floors and bank deposits. Because you can't say that you defend this country when you don't punish those who pollute, when you don't control pollution, and when you keep betting on companies that pollute our rivers instead of looking for their transfer. Because they don't take steps to keep the job, as they did in Vigo. Telling that the General Hospital Cíes was going to be transferred to the new Álvaro Cunqueiro Hospital, there was no provision to maintain the economy of the area where General Hospital Cíes was, which is now becoming a dead zone and hundreds again of unemployed people in the city of Vigo. It is indefensible that the People's Party's refusal to accept amendments to the BNG, AGE and PSOE demanded the abolition of the additional provision for the second tenth, which keeps working precariously in the Forest Fire Prevention and Defense Service, which has been treated thousands of times. How do you want us to support budgets that risk the lives of people who work in the fight against forest fires? In short, I will vote in favour of the amendments to the opposition which improve the social character of budgets, improve the distribution of wealth, defend a fairer tax system and those which seek to return to public staff the rights and wages deducted, guarantee quality public services, limit the public-private procurement formula, public works contracts and concerts with private companies in health and education. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, I conclude by saying that these budgets contradict their electoral promises and their commitment to return to the social majority the usurped rights and the compensation for the suffering they are suffering from by their austere policies, which have only benefited the great capital. That's why I will vote on the statement of the committee and regret that they continue to be embroiled in their immobilism, refusing to listen to Greek society, refusing to negotiate with the opposition, refusing to reach agreements of consensus, covenants for the future of this country, imposing their unilateral vision and their vision for the great capital. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-22-DSPG135.u30	Thank you very much, Mrs. Martínez. Nationalist Block Galego. Mrs. Pontón Mondelo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-22-DSPG135.u31	Thank you very much, Madam President. I'm going to start with the simplest, which is to say that from the BNG Parliamentary Group, because we are going to support all the amendments tabled by the AGE and the PSOE groups, but as a rule, because we always have to have an exception, and, in this case, the exception is that we are going to abstain in three amendments from the AGE Group, not by the increase, but by the deduction of expenditure, because from the point of view of view of our parliamentary group it makes sense that on a track like the Morrazo corridor, with such a high level of accidentality, because the works – let us say – of decoupling, which are supposed to be an improvement of road safety, because they must continue, and, in any case, we do not agree in that case with that amendment. And to avoid the wasted use of support, don't you think, of the increase in the spending on this initiative by the People's Group, because we abstain from any doubt whatsoever. And I'm going a little bit to the intervention that the spokesperson for the People's Group, Mr. Puy, has just made to tell you that we alone agree with your intervention is in which budget is a political document. And this is very important, because we've been saying that the budgets of the Galician Union were almost a technical matter where we technically did what we could do. I think it's good that you recognize that the policy of cuts that led to this government responds to willfulness and political decision, the result of a conception of how public resources should be used. And you actually used public resources to privatize over these years, i.e. to eliminate or give them a share – let us say – of resources that are from citizens of our country, from Galicia, to private companies, to benefit by their cuts also private activity in areas such as health, as in education, as in public services, and they didn't worry about those people who were clearly left in the hives in this crisis. I also want to tell you that your intervention today shows how you, with the reform that you have made of this regulation, all you want to do is divert the debate on amendments right now. Because if you do: 450 partial amendments and the People's Party has come here to give us a global debate – and then we will come into some matters that seem important to us – and without giving a single argument why these partial amendments are eliminated, and even using falsifications from which I am convinced that Mr. Puy is aware. Because you came here to tell us that we destabilized the European Union with the amendments we tabled. Note that capacity has a parliament that doesn't even have a financial capacity. And allow me to tell you, in addition, why, because now we are in the debate on partial amendments, where you know, in addition, that to present them we have to do it with the cost structure of this board of Galicia, we can neither increase nor decrease. So that is an argument that falls on its own weight and shows how far we have come here to give debates, first, where we really do not want to go to the concrete problems that exist in this country, and it comes, well, because with a global speech and – as I say – loaded with fallacy. Because look, you told us about your concern, didn't you? in relation to the good use of public resources and that they really have a redistributive function of budgets. And for that he used an argument, which concerns him very much, didn't he? that he defends the freeness of public services, because you understand, for example, that Amancio Ortega has to pay for the school dining room and the son or a daughter of a worker or a worker who is unemployed, no. Well, the reality is that that's an argument that we say it's fallacy. And why do we say it's a bluff? Because we understand that redistribution must be given in the tax field. And it's surprising that you, which belongs to the People's Party, who raised taxes on all citizens of this country, for example, if that was your concern, wouldn't you?, you'd have to be against the IVE, because the IVE pays the same as Amancio Ortega that a worker or a worker or a person who is unemployed. And you, who are so concerned about consumption, should also know that EVV is a tax that goes, first, against the lowest incomes and against the consumption of the lowest incomes. And what we say – and that will be the debate that takes place in the afternoon – is that there are other redistributive models, that the redistribution of income where it has to be given is in those taxes where a redistributive criterion can really be applied and the elimination of taxes that are being recorded to everyone, regardless of what their contribution is. Because if I make more and more tax contributions, I'm already paying more for the provision of services, it's something I think of as first economical. But you come here using an argument that knows perfectly that it's a fallacious argument, that's a demagogic argument, and that you're trying to distort the reality and the situation in this country. Look, I don't know, there may be some country where the European Union has been very beneficial to its interests, probably in Germany or France, but that Galicia comes to tell us that the European Union is panacea and that it has meant a significant advance for our country, that is to put a slate on the truth. The reality is that Galicia paid very high the price of incorporation into the European Union because our basic productive sectors have been dismantled, and we are now seeing it as the following paying the fishing sector, the dairy sector, our shipbuilding sector, which is clearly discriminated against in this process of European integration and which has been restructured, which is the way of not saying that our country's productive capacity has been eliminated in favour of other territories, always with the complicity of the People's Party, both in Galicia and in the State. The truth is that their policies leave a picture in this country that is really devastating. And look, there's one thing that's amazing, it seems you don't want to recognize it yourself. And the first thing they don't want to recognize, they do it in a biased way, is that with their politics in this country, what's going on is that there's a decline in the active population, and this is something that the Galician Union itself recognizes in its economic-financial report. It says: Yes, it's going to create jobs for the first time since 2017, but you yourself are forecasting a decline in the active population. I mean, there are fewer people in this country in an active population situation, so we're talking about the fact that statistics are often twisting reality. And what's the reality? Well, Galicia closed in November as the second territory where unemployment increased most. We also know in the last two months that 2014 has closed with the loss of 5,820 jobs in the industrial sector, and this means the second largest drop in the entire Spanish state. We also know that the growth of gross domestic product in Galicia in the last year is only halfway through the state average and that we are among the five least growing communities. We also know that this country's public debt has increased by 0.77% in the third quarter compared to the previous year, which is already a public debt that exceeds 10 billion euros, and this represents 18.6% of gross domestic product. We also know, Mr. Puy, that if there is less consumption is because there is more inequality, because you first have lowered the wages of workers and workers, the taxes paid by all workers in an unfair and unequal way, and you also know that in this country there is a very serious problem of juvenile emigration and precariousness, which for many people to charge a thousand euros is a real luxury. That's the reality of the disaster they leave in this country. Today they come here to this debate to say absolutely nothing. Today, what we had to explain is why they are against the freeness of textbooks; why they are against extending school lunches; why they are against sanitizing our rivers; why they are against a ship repair centre in Ferrol; why they are against aid for our dairy sector; why they are against helping our seafarers and defending our fishing sector; why you are the only policy they do in that area is to continue dismantling our fleet and therefore leaving us without a future in this area too; why they are against increasing the expenditure at R+D+I; why they are against rescuing Vigo's hospital; why they are ultimately against a policy that modifies the mistakes of the past. Why are they starting to pursue a policy that is clearly unfair and a policy that has only created more inequality, more poverty and more immigration in our country. We also regret that we continue with this policy of not dialogue and not having the capacity to accept one of our amendments alone. I thought, reading the press yesterday and today, that it is evident that Mr. Rajoy discovered on Sunday that the word of dialogue existed, but it seems that Mr. Feijó continues to ignore it. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-22-DSPG135.u32	Thank you very much. Parliamentary Group of the Left Galician Alternative. You have a word for Mrs. Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-22-DSPG135.u33	Mr. Puy, I told you in the committee that, legitimately, between our parliamentary group and its own, we would not agree on the income policy that we defend each other. It's materially impossible, and it's also legitimate to do so. It is legitimate, above all, because you are part of a political ideal that goes right through a tax system in which, if possible, there is the lowest tax pressure; if possible, the rich less contribute and, if possible, that everyone pays public services in order to meet their needs. It's all right, it's your fiscal model and your society model. I told you in the commission that, depending on the tax model of each town, so you define the level of public services you have. It's legitimate, but we don't share it at all. I think it's quite tremendous that you are defending here your quasi-exemptions to the tax of successions and prayers, and many other proposals, when from scientific rigor and from the proposal you were talking about at first, tax and social redistribution, the Fatenda technicians, who are not Marxist-Leninists, are professional technicians, are saying it's aberrant, that it's so much like making these taxes, absolutely necessary in times of crisis for this country to disappear in fact. I also wanted to use it to refute the claim you made. This is Article 4, Mr Puy, the proposal we make. What you didn't say is that on the liquidable base, you get higher incomes, what you do is you get down there substantially, actually, tax pressure. What you didn't say is that, in fact, under 12,000 euros, Mr. Puy no one makes the statement of income. So, of course, taxes and amendments speak. We do exactly what we do in these sections above EUR 53,000 per year is indeed increasing tax pressure. You're doing what you're doing right there in an unfair way, you're putting it down. Of course there's no agreement, it's materially impossible! I wanted to deny some of the issues you said. He said that public budgets serve, first of all, to equip us with growth and stability. Two. They aim for tax redistribution. Three, improve the allocation of resources in the provision of public goods. In this doctrinal imaginary, those three requirements, Mr. Puy, are not met with these budgets. I've just set an example for you, but it's curious how you get down substantially in the highest wage incomes, to the detriment of accepting our amendment, which is exactly the opposite. He spoke of the Social Democracy of Valls. If Valls is a Social Democratic, I am a closing nun, Mr. Puy; it will allow me to express myself. Truly, with all affection, that is, language is very perverse, but to say that Mr. Valls is a Social Democratic... is that Oskar Lafontaine is going to infarct, without a doubt! And Oskar Lafontaine is no revolutionary, he's a classic social democrat. You gave a praise to a European Union and to a euro that seems to be wonderful, in your opinion. I am not going to tell you what we think, Mr. Puy, and even the conviction already unites in the people of southern Europe, and in the Greek people, that it is a real nightmare for all of us. He spoke of keinesian margin in spending, and even smile for it, that margin that allows us to article 135.3 of the constitutional text agreed PP-PSOE. Mr. Puy, you know it's absolutely uncertain what you're saying, you know it perfectly well. There's no keinesian margin in this budget, and there's no permit of any kind to what you're saying. What we have to talk about here is alternatives, Mr. Puy. First. It took a long time to talk to us about a lot of things, but he didn't explain why he didn't accept any of the amendments to the opposition, and he would be convinced that he had. Second. We're talking about priorities, and I'm going to give you an example of our priorities and their priorities; I'm telling you, the People's Party. The free book and material program in this country's schools costs about EUR 11 million, and the City of Culture, that black hole, that mausoleum of Mr. Fraga, you add EUR 9.9 million. And we say, if we have to choose, as this goes, cannons and butter, that we were taught in Samuelson's books, we better choose to occupy these millions of euros in free books and school materials, and not, indeed, in Mr. Fraga Iribarne's mausoleum, by setting an example. He also told us about the Galician Economic Forum. Mr. Puy, doctrinal rigour, did not explain the negative differential to us either. I share what Mrs. Pontón has just said. Mr. Puy, what you just said here is to affirm the failure of the policies of the People's Party, the Councillor of Fairy and Mr. Count. It's failure! He told us about the external trade balance, Mr. Puy, I mean, it's only positive because we have Index, because we have Citroën and because we have Repsol. But you accidentally – and there's public reports – don't talk about the internal trade balance, Mr. Puy. Tell her, she'll have a chance now, and we'll see what happens to our country, Mr. Puy. And what happens to him is very sad, well known to the councillor of Fairy. Finally, he talked about the reality of work. Mr. Puy, really, no matter how much they say it a thousand times, they don't believe it out there, they don't believe it! What's happening is that in the whole state we have 44.5 million less hours, and in the whole of Galicia, 20 percent less hours. What is happening is that they are replacing quality employment with absolutely precarious employment, with absolute poverty. That's what's happening, that's the model you're defending. And what are our priorities? With urgency, derogate labour reform. But it's essential now, right away. Although Mr. Puy said, "without need to banish labour reform," it's impossible, it's a weapon of job destruction. That's exactly what the job reform is doing. I repeat that the Banco de España itself, in one of its reports, says that the goal of the labour reform of the People's Party was not to create jobs, it was to devalue this country internally; that is, to lower wages. And as I literally read what the Banco de España is saying, we don't give it any more turns. He spoke of a reality, Mr. Puy, man! which I think is nonexistent. He talked about the background. Look, in the previous FLA, you didn't go in for pride. Not you, which I know I certainly wouldn't share in doctrine. I mean, if you defend Galician interests, you can't do what Mrs. Muñoz did before, and then replaced by our current farm councillor. But Mr. Feijóo did what he did was, out of pride, not to enter the FLA. I'll tell you again what Montoro said, what Juan Pueblo galego paid for that pride of Mr. Feijóo. You put examples of that magnificent management of the pharmaceutical savings plan. Mr. Puy, how many medicines have you removed from the catalogue? He spoke of Hepatitis C. I remind you again in this House, Mr. Puy, that speaking of Hepatitis C, man!, it would be good that the imprisoned population, who are human beings who have rights, may also receive these treatments, or have no right, and are without receiving them, Mr. Puy. We're not going into the model you used anymore, but this is a reality. And I suppose you'll also have the possibility to explain to us why this imprisoned population follows without access to the medicine. I told you in the first intervention, there are 90 million euros in the health budget, why, Mr. Puy? To pay for the canon of Vigo's privatized hospital and to keep increasing health concerts. Almost 90 million euros in the case of Povervisa, who has some waiting lists that I won't tell you, you know. Anyway, you're all fired. And then – ended here – Mr. Puy and Mr. Fairy's advisor who serves us here, if everything goes as well as you say, why are they still cutting? If everything is so wonderful, if they are magnificent managing, if in the face of the public debt of 10,000 million euros of the most expensive president in history, nothing happens, if all is so, why do they not derogate Law 1/2012, of February 29th? Why does Article 19 of the V Collective Convention of Public Administration not enter into force again? Of course, it's done here... like my mother said: I love you so much Puchito, but you give me a little bread. Well, we want bread, Mr. Puy, we want bread. Your story isn't real, Mr. Puy. You can say that EPA or whatever, 238,000 people in unemployment seem to be a small thing...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-22-DSPG135.u34	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-22-DSPG135.u35	...I tell them that the story can repeat it a thousand times they don't believe it, because people suffer, Mr. Puy. And I insist, as the Galician Economic Forum says, what they should do is amend their policies.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-22-DSPG135.u36	Thank you, Mrs. Díaz. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Méndez Romeo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-22-DSPG135.u37	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. In line with what I said this morning, if the budget debate has been reduced to this amazing situation, we are not going to make the mistake of entering into the analysis by the often amended opposition group when the Government is not willing to consider any proposal. So, let us vote favourably for all the amendments proposed by the other groups, except for the same amendments that Mrs Pontón mentioned and for the same argument. We believe that Morrazo's infrastructure is absolutely a priority and, therefore, it must not be deductible from the projected credit. Mr. Puy, today the subconscious betrayed you. It's just that I came here to talk about the lottery today...! A person like you, rigorous, talking about a gambling game where probability you know what it is...! Mr. Puy, lottery is part, like the rest of the Christmas paraphernalia, of those things that we strongly criticize and yet cultivate assiduously; it is part of traditions. And what am I going to tell you about something that looks like you, too, censored by the Magi, the only moment of the year when adults and minors coincide in the symbolic game? That has an extraordinary value, beyond its cultural, cultural origin, which is not religious. Mr Puy, I understand that we can talk about Spain, the euro, Europe, and we agree. Who is more European than we are! Who is more for integration in Europe than the left during the long years of stone in Spain! Who is more in favour of entering the euro than this government, who has also made it happen! Who's more in favour of Spain's unity! Mr. Puy, today we are not debating this, today we are debating the 600 amendments that this group has tabled and that you refuse to accept, and the 400 of the Nationalist Block, and the hundreds of the AGE and the Joint Group. This is today's debate, we must not confuse terms. And in this debate you do not agree to modify a comma, a euro, a hundred euros. For you what the Government does is indisputable, probably because there are not many arguments to be able to sustain it rigorously. You say we've gone from the circle of the vicious economy to the circle of the virtuous economy. Look, Mr. Puy, for many citizens of this country, where we are in the circle of the virtual economy, because they do not perceive the benefits of these changes at all. But they told him clearly last Sunday! What do you think the citizens voted last Sunday? The open disagreement with labour policy, social policy, the increase in inequality. The despair of many people who, after several years, find themselves in a worse situation. That's what people are protesting clearly, how to protest, in the urn. So, you see it today as you want to see it, it's obvious that we're going to watch changes, bigger or smaller, modulations in the economic policy that you've been leading up to now. That's going to be the period that now opens for the formation of the Government, and you know it perfectly, as perfectly as this group. We will never be able to support such policies. By the way, I don't want to ignore something that for you is an important milkmotive, which is discriminatory policy in public services. Let's keep a completely divergent conception. You think that public services should be classified, segregated, through the payment function, through the imposition of fees and through assistance or subsidy mechanisms. We maintain that in public services we must maintain equality in access and provision for something very well-known for economic theory, and that services for the poor end up being poor services in resources, in means, and especially because the services where stigmatized, where it is necessary to identify each day for the provision of the service, what is done is chronicizing those exclusion mechanisms. That's why we're against and we're against that that applies to health care, education or social services. Furthermore, what if the figures that are to be collected through these coke taxes are not even going to ensure the operation of those services? You're selling ideological contraband goods there. You're trying to make it look like some economic rigor, which is always an axiom – therefore undisputable – of ideological thinking. Mr. Puy, the time now being opened in Spain will introduce important changes. The budget you are presenting today is in line with the same principles as the previous six budgets. You don't have to convince us of the results, anybody can count on them in their personal lives in terms of poverty, in terms of exclusion, in terms of the labour market, in terms of available income, in terms of standard of living, in terms of the functioning of public services... this is reality. You will insist a year longer knowing that the correction actually began last Sunday and that, from here on, we will have to see, one way or another, important changes in economic policy, important changes in the correction of inequality – I remind you that with you higher than ever in modern Spain – and therefore opening a new horizon and hope. With you or without you, but this is the way out of Sunday's election results. I'm sorry that you can't accept any of the 600 amendments from this group today; because you haven't been able to accept the amendments that we tabled to the return of each of the budget sections or the global refund we made. So, ladies and gentlemen, this is the situation we are in today: at the end of a stage. You yourself said it is the last budget that the Government will present in this legislation. So here we end up with a particularly damaging, particularly regressive policy that hasn't changed one of the problems that there was. And I insist again on what I said earlier: the slight increase in budget figures cannot cover that there is no change in policies in any of the areas, which simply results in an improvement in some of the expenditure figures. So you don't have to be too smart to be able to figure out where we're going to be when this budget is over. With all probability, on a very different political stage. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-22-DSPG135.u38	Thank you, Mr. Méndez Romeo. People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Puy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-22-DSPG135.u39	Ladies and gentlemen, this will be because it is the first time we have this debate format, and there may be some intervener who is a little distracted with what is today's objective. The amendments have been treated section-by-section over the last few weeks, and you have your answer to each one of them, because it has not been voted on in the debates of the different sections. There are some who ask for more precision, and there are others who discuss the outcome of the elections and what we need to do with elections. Whoever wants to advance elections, I suppose it will be to prevent a new escape from the Joint Group, but that's not our problem or most of the problem. [[Applause]] Of course, there was a significant change in elections. The PP is still the first, but the second force in Galicia is no longer the Socialist Party, there are others called In Marea, which have largely surpassed the Socialist Party. Indeed, there was a significant change, if I were a militant of the Socialist Party, I would think a lot about it. You know how much I respect your culture, Mr. Méndez, I'll give you an article... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-22-DSPG135.u40	Quiet. Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-22-DSPG135.u41	... Isn't it true they stayed seconds in the elections? I'm sorry, did you stay thirds or didn't you lose with Marea? I'm asking, because it seems like yes, maybe all the information is wrong... [[Murmurs.]] Mr. President, I would be grateful if you'd stopped the clock.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-22-DSPG135.u42	Quiet. Quiet, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-22-DSPG135.u43	You can comment on what you want from the election, and I can't? I'm the only one who did it was to see the fact that En Marea surpassed the Socialist Party. And if I were from the Socialist Party, I would be worried, and if I were from En Marea, I would be happy. [[Applause]] Mr. Méndez knows that I respect your culture very much, I'll give you an article from a Nobel Prize in Economics that speaks precisely of the redistributive value of the lottery. It is also a very interesting article because it talks about the question of aversion to the risk of people and about the decreasing marginal utility of income. It's an interesting article that has made many of the foundations of the neoclassical economy in doubt. I understand it's a very specialized economic issue, but I'll pass it on. However, if I want to need you, of course, I have only things in favor of the Christmas spirit, and when I made that reference is because there is a mayor – that is not one of you – of that strength, which is the second force in the general election of Galicia, who in his city already calls the grinch – that is, whoever wants to steal the Christmas, a movie character – because, among other things, he has put up a Christmas card contest and literally said that, as it is a lay Christmas, letters cannot be sent only to the magical kings, Santa Claus or the Apalpador, but to whom the children want, and he set an example to Mickey Mouse. I, of course, as you will understand, am quite peaceful and not radical against anything, but against the grinch I am therefore sympathetically seeing these issues. [[Applause]] Let's go to what we have to go to. The subject of rising taxes. If you take – and I try to be strict and not say things at random – an index of how OECD statistics are, an OECD statistics on income in Spain, you will see that in Spain, in 2014, taxes on income, i.e. income and capital gains... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-22-DSPG135.u44	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-22-DSPG135.u45	...they were 30% of the total collected, while they were 34% on the OECD average. The contributions to Social Security in Spain were 36% – they know they fall primarily on the employer – and 26% on average in the OECD. In sales taxes, in particular VAT, in Spain there are sales at 27% and VAT at 17% of the total collected, and in the OECD average there are sales taxes at 33%, six points above, and VAT at 20%, i.e. three points above. You can say what you want from VAT increases, etc., but it's rather demagogic to come here to set examples of Sweden, etc., and not to understand what the tax structure is in an advanced country, to see where the differences are and to understand that income tax, along with taxes on social security – social contributions – is directly a tax on work that emptys the labour market. And all international bodies that have studied the tax impact of the Spanish tax system on unemployment rates have the same effect: look at taxes on employment! And you want to create work but you don't want to make the right fiscal policy. Indeed, Mrs Díaz, you who earn 12,450 euros want to put 11.5% on them, and instead the Socialist Party, BNG and the People's Party believe that the right rate is 9.5. And in those who earn up to EUR 17,000, we have a rate of 10.2, just like the Socialist Party and the Block, and you're only 11.5, and there's more than 70% of the Greek contributor. And you, 70 percent less earns the income tax, you want to raise nothing less than 2 points in a plot and 1.3 points in another plot. I mean, I'm the only one saying it's your amendment, that's evident. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] You want the 90% that earns less in Galicia to pay...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-22-DSPG135.u46	Mr. Fajardo, please don't have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-22-DSPG135.u47	But why don't you like me to remember what your amendment is? You say you want them to pay more and I remind you. What's the matter is...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-22-DSPG135.u48	Mr. Fajardo, I'll call him in order. Do the favor and leave... Mr. Fajardo, we're at Christmas and I don't want to call the order. [[Protests.]] Then do the favor. Well, please. [[Mr. Fajardo Recouso pronounces words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-22-DSPG135.u49	Madam President...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-22-DSPG135.u50	I don't know what he said, but please let Mr. Puy speak. Mr. Puy, continue.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-22-DSPG135.u51	It seems that Mr. Fajardo misses someone who goes to Madrid, which I don't know is who, because there seems to be someone who goes to Madrid in his group, just like that. Well, finally. [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Mrs. Díaz, all active substances. included in the catalogue of Greek drugs. And you don't distort because this was an important agreement that we had in the past legislate with the Nationalist Block Galego just to avoid the benefits of the big pharmaceuticals. Don't come to me now to defend that we have to put on the marks and pay the pharmaceuticals, that you're from United Left. Public expenditure at the concert? Average of Spain, 14.2% in education; in Galicia, 10.4%. What are they talking about? These are official data from the Ministry of Education. [[Applause]] Health? Average per capita expenditure in the state, in all autonomous communities, 1,132 euros; in Galicia, 1,230, above the average; Andalusia – Government of left-wings of all life as here of the People's Party –, 978 euros, well below the average of Spain and well below the average of Galicia. When I go to the library, I also ask for the Federation's report on public health, which says that since 2009 we have moved from the 11th post to the 7th post in health services in Galicia. You're completely distorting the data. You propose an amendment to eliminate agreed education. They report that there are 1,000 teachers less by sight; there may be a transformation in the number of public education personnel into 1,000 teachers. You want to send the street directly, one of its amendments, more than 8,000 teachers, who are the 8,000 of the concert that want to eliminate but the professors of religion; which, by the way, remains a voluntary subject. I think I remember that this year the rate of replacement in education is 100 percent. 1,000 squares will be convened, with which the most rest of the 1,000 that say you have been lost, because by 2015 there have been 446 squares. I want to remember that, when I was ruling on the left, we were closing rural unitarian schools – I know perfectly what it is because my son went to one, you know, Mr. Fajardo? – with 9 students or less. [[Mr. Fajardo Recouso pronounces words that are not perceived.]] It was the case that was in my village. And now they sin when it's 5 students or less. School luncheons? Free for 80% of students and pays 1 euro 6%. The rest pay, because their parents can do it. And while paying for the school dining room, lots of middle classes, middle and high incomes, they save a lot of money because they don't have to hire someone while both parents work, because it's a conciliation measure; they save not having to hire someone for their home. [[Applause]] Salaries? I don't know if any of the Members had occasion in the campaign – I took some time this weekend – to read the magnificent report made by the Galego Institute of Statistics on wages in Galicia. And they can see perfectly in the series how between 2001 and 2008 wages grow in Galicia far above the average of what they grow in the European Union. They begin to fall, as a result of the crisis, specifically from the year 2010, and from the current year, from the year 2014, they begin to grow for the first time. I mean, that's the history of the recession. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] The history of the recession is that, with the money that came, a real estate bubble was inflated and paid very high wages, particularly to young people, who left schools and schools and were going to work because they had wages that had nothing to do with their formation, and when they shot the bubble, they had to study again. That's what happened in Spain. But if you still don't recognize the crisis, as you didn't recognize it when I came, and you can't even look back and see what happened, we can hardly move forward. [[Applause]] Jobs of less than a month represent less than 1%, and so we could continue. I agree with Mr Méndez that the priority of the budget, as he said, must be to combat recession and increase employment, and therefore to reduce unemployment and unemployment. And we believe that form is these budgets, which are expansive, with tax and spending reductions, basically social and investment. Why don't we vote for your amendments? Because again here Mrs. Pontón has said something that is not true. In its amendments there is an increase in expenditure through tax increases. You want to raise exactly 240 million euros in taxes to the Greeks, PSOE 302 and AGE 200, because you also want to be indebted to 200 million more. [[Murmurs.]] You ask... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-22-DSPG135.u52	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-22-DSPG135.u53	...which pay more taxes in Galicia, what they're doing is contracting the economy with new taxes, and we're doing is expanding the economy to boost growth, to boost job creation. And we do it by leaving more money in people's hands to make decisions, especially in those whose lowest income they have – not like AGE, who wants to raise the income tax to those who have less income – and also spending more... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-22-DSPG135.u54	Finish it, Mr. Puy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-22-DSPG135.u55	...in social expenditure, to contribute to the fact that the rate of equality in Galicia is much lower not only than that of Spain, but also that of the European Union. [[Murmurs.]] You keep thinking that what you have to do is raise taxes and spend more, and we certainly don't accept the amendments...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-22-DSPG135.u56	Thank you very much, Mr. Puy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-22-DSPG135.u57	...because we believe that economic policy is the one that got us into the crisis and this is the one that's getting us out of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-22-DSPG135.u58	We suspended the session until tonight at 6:30 p.m. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-22-DSPG135.u59	Good afternoon. Please take your seats. Articulated debate
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-22-DSPG135.u60	We resume the session, with the debate on the joint and round of parliamentary groups, to explain their position on the Commission's ruling and, if so, to defend the amendments that have been maintained. The Joint Group has the floor to Mrs. Martínez García.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-22-DSPG135.u61	Thank you, President. Good afternoon to all and to all. Well, I'm going to start by announcing my vote against the dictatorship and support for the amendments to the opposition, basically based on all the important ones that collect the dictatorship. I'm going to try summarizing you a little bit by concepts or objectives. And, for example, in relation to matters as important to our country as our language is, it completely lacks the dictates of express support for linguistic normalization, to actually carry out a normalization campaign in our country, insisting above all on normalization, within the administration itself, such as the Administration of Justice or within what is teaching in our country. Also, as for R+D+i, an entirely advertising bet of this government during the election campaign. It does not really reflect that interest, since it does not engage in the research career, it does not bet on the regularization and stabilization of the investigator's staff, which will not give rise to that objective that marks the PP, in theory, of attracting the Greek talent that is outside. As for our rural environment – we have spoken of it as active and passive in this House and also in committees – the total abandonment of our rural world, the lack of access to basic services, their discrimination as regards access to long-band coverage, the problems that women continue to have and which are not resolved to access the cotitularity of agricultural holdings, or the forest policy itself, which treats the mountain as something strange, does not defend the native mountain, does not defend a lot that gives rise to a high-value added industry, does not bet on the end of the industrial processes of our primary products. And what about the abandonment of the dairy sector, the lack of an answer, that they are still in a critical situation, that they continue to close farms and that there is no solution to this problem either. Neither to productive diversification nor to eco-production. I mean, a rural policy, a agricultural and forestry policy that goes against the interests of our country. As far as social policy is concerned, as much as we have created a Social Policy Council and we promise that it will be a priority of the Greek Government for social policy, this is not the case when we often enter into the analysis of these budgets. There's no housing plan, something fundamental to this country. There's no rental housing plan for our boys and girls. There is no plan either to dynamize the rural environment and bring population closer and, above all, bring new population closer to the rural environment, but on the contrary, it seems to maintain all possible barriers. Total and absolute rejection of the policy of access to energy and access to water. The energy in this country is still a luxury rather than a right. Energy can never be a luxury, the right to energy should be guaranteed by any government that says it's interested in social problems. Nor is there any progress on the fight against poverty and social exclusion, nor is there any plan to collect those recommendations that come from the People's Valedor as to the need for an emergency plan to prevent child poverty. What about gender-based violence? When it was the... – I would say the debate, the lie – when it was the proposal for the framework status of Galician Radio and Television, for example, that there was no room for the debate, but a very important means to fight against gender violence, to educate in equality, to fight against sexist advertising, and there was no place, because for the People's Party this struggle is not important, it leads to such an important environment as Galician Radio and Television. Also the lack of gender-based violence prevention and education programmes in compulsory education, or improvement, not to say immediate access to housing for battered women, or the fight against the feminization of poverty, where the People's Party – not one or two, but three times – voted in this Parliament against working for equal pay between men and women. They are unable to understand it, as the party that governs is able to vote against that equal work, equal pay, and that pay cannot be discriminated against on the basis of gender. So that's what's reflected in these budgets. On the subject of justice, there is no support either to extend free justice and thus guarantee it to the whole citizenry. It is a total abandonment, which continues to be reflected in the budgets, in relation to the situation of our judges, of all the judges, that there is both on the subject of archives and the emergency situation that is being given in the trials of gender violence and family trials. Nor is this social empathy seen in terms of all programming, the relationship with international cooperation and solidarity, at a time when international solidarity is key. We have spoken about it in this Parliament. Parliament has approved the assistance to refugees coming to our country, to host the maximum number of refugees; however, these aids for international cooperation and solidarity are not for nothing, nor will the Galician Solidarity Association with the Saharan people be further supported, in spite of our relationship with it. As for the budgets in relation to the municipalities, it continues to punish the municipalities, it does not continue to be recognized, it remains unrecognized that the municipalities are key to the provision of social services, to meet the most imperative needs of society and also to create jobs in the localities. As for minors – I said – there is also no need for them and there is no programme for the prevention and mediation of minors, when it is more than denounced, denounced several times by lawyers, prosecutors and the People's Valator himself, the inadequacy of juvenile care systems, especially in the judicial field. We looked at him back with the youngest boy who shot Mr. Rajoy in Pontevedra; he had to be attended by adult judges, since there was no juvenile trial that had taken care of the situation. I think that was well worth the attention of the Government. As for further expanding competences, increasing self-government, there is a total waiver by the Government of Greece to demand competences that allow our country to self-governance according to its needs, issues which have also been rejected by the People's Party many times in this Parliament. Also all transparency – and I said in the morning –, this whole Transparency Law remains in these budgets really very lame and without that interest reflected in transparency. And then I'll talk later in support of the amendments from the groups of all those amendments that were rejected and that would promote transparency, especially in the use of public money. As far as the environment is concerned, it is clear that there is no interest or commitment from the People's Party in the fight against climate change, in the protection of the Nature Network, in the protection of natural parks, in the recovery of our rivers, in the empowerment and promotion of renewable energies, and there we again have the wind energy or geothermal energy that are virtually a target without more than budgets. With regard to industry and employment, this famous Industry 4.0, which is, of course, a Popular Party competition in a country that has basically micro-enterprises, pemes after and very few large companies, and yet there is no plan for these micro-enterprises to actually give rise to a Industry 4.0, but they keep these aids to small entrepreneurs, and we see that they have already proven that they do not work, that most of them do not reach the six months of life and most of them, almost 100%, do not reach the year of life. So it's not a serious investment, but investment requires a greater effort to create synergies between these initiatives to really give rise to an industry that can create future and quality jobs in our country, based on knowledge. But there are also no alternatives for comarcas like Ferrol, molten, because you've managed to load the naval sector, because they don't bet on the naval sector, because they refuse such an important construction as Ferrol's floating dam. But also the total abandonment of the Vigo naval sector, where the only thing they did was sell the Barreras shipyard, and that's when all their function ended. Sell our country, sell our industries. As local and proximity trade is also abandoned and the handicrafts of the Greeks, which could have a real boost in that close-neighbourly Greek trade. You keep betting on the big surfaces, with those big multinationals that are the same all over the world, that you can buy the same in Galicia as in China, whether in the United States or in Germany. That's your bet on big production chains and large shopping centers, which alienates the citizenship of city centers, of its streets, of local commerce and therefore also of local hospitality. A real failure in their employment policies and therefore also a real failure that they are not prepared to solve by giving impetus to the Galego Placement Service. Education and culture. Another failure. A total abandonment of museums, there are no cultural centers for the population. It is tremendously fascinating to see, for example, how in neighbouring Portugal any village has a social center, has cultural centers; however, in Galicia or in the cities we have these services. Our historical and cultural heritage is not taken into account in your care. For example, I can quote the Roman village of Toralla or the archaeological remains of the Facho, of Cangas. Tourism beyond the Santiago Way – for that not all – is not encouraged, and now seems to start something with the Ourense thermal campaign, but they also refuse to extend the thermalism to the province of Pontevedra or do other campaigns in a country that has plenty of offers to be made in the tourism field and in the cultural field. They're not betting, for example, on the Italian audiovisual, on literary publications in Greek. It's a total abandonment of our culture, a total contempt that they transmit. I hope they don't feel it, but honestly I have to tell them that what they transmit is real contempt. I'm done with time, but I want to talk about health care, the abandonment of public health, the punishment that is being given to public health, which can only be a conscious and sought punishment, sought to end public health. There's no other explanation. What's going on with all the public hospitals and what's going on with Vigo's hospital has no other explanation. Surgical trucks, magnetic resonance trucks, everything works in an unstable way, without staff paintings and practically no material. Let's not talk about the deadly betrayal that they made to the people of Lugo with their popular legislative initiative on the 24-hour hemodynamics service and nuclear medicine in the ULA, and the same situation of precarious care that Chou is suffering, not to mention the destruction that you did in primary care, a perfect primary care service, which worked as a miracle, which was best and you carried out, and for the first time we have to have waiting lists in primary care. I'm out of time. I am grateful to the President-in-Office, but also to remember that the situation of the sea is still serious and gives him no solution and that, in infrastructures, what is above all a lot of amendments that try to alleviate all the waves that you collect in your dictation. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-22-DSPG135.u62	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. Mr. Jorquera.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-22-DSPG135.u63	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Counsellor. I will inevitably be reiterating in some arguments, since much of the debate today morning has gravitated on issues affecting the articulation, which is what we are now discussing on budgets, and even the Law on fiscal and administrative measures, which we will discuss tomorrow. To say that, unlike the other opposition groups, BNG has implemented its tax proposals through the introduction of amendments to the Bill of Tax and Administrative Measures. But as much as tomorrow's debate takes place, I'm going to refer briefly to them, because spending policies, obviously, are closely linked to income policies. It would be demagogic, on our part, to present proposals that involve more expenditure without realising how they are supposed to be financed. And, as we have said in the debate to all these budgets, Mr Counsellor, we consider that it is not conciliable for the intended budget to bet on the extension of tax reductions and the blind obedience to the dogmas of the zero deficit. We never shared that lower taxes were left-handed, nor did we share demagogy with taxes, as the People's Party does by using tax rebates as a simple electoral claim. As we have said so many times, taxes are necessary for us to have resources to meet public policies and also as a mechanism for redistribution, ultimately correction, of social inequalities. And neither Galicia nor the Spanish state has an excessive tax pressure problem; what exists is a problem of poorly distributed tax pressure. And that's what they're trying to fix our amendments. That's why we're proposing to abolish tax reductions in the tax of inheritances and donations, since this tax already had multiple exemptions, so in practice it's going to be the highest incomes most benefited from the new exemptions. We propose to introduce more progress in the autonomous scale of the IRPF, increasing the number of tranches and raising fiscal pressure on higher incomes. As far as wealth tax is concerned, we propose to reduce the minimum exemption and introduce more progress in the tables. And finally, we propose to create a tax on large commercial areas and a new tax on bank deposits of entities operating in Galicia. And at the same time as we propose to increase tax pressure on high incomes and large businesses, other amendments aim to correct the abuse of indirect taxes and rates approved by the German Government throughout this legislation. Because many times, between reality and your speech, gentlemen of the People's Party, there's a real chasm, because you've been taxed. The problem is they did it unfairly, raising the tax pressure on those who have less. As a whole, BNG's tax proposals would allow the revenue of the Welsh Fair to be raised by EUR 240 million, raising resources to bet on, indeed, social expenditure and productive investment. But by focusing on the amendments to the articulation, our group has presented 34 amendments, amendments that really want to shield public services and social spending, preventing so-called fiscal consolidation policies from being the pretext for dismantling social achievements that have been achieved for decades. We therefore propose to amend Article 9 on the adequacy of appropriations, so that no adjustments can be made to achieve the economic and financial balance which implies the reduction of the appropriations included in programmes which finance basic public services. This is what our Amendment No 3 specifically proposes. If it is to preserve the economic and financial balance, we believe that there are other possible ways, for example, to prevent the use of public-private collaboration from delivering services and public infrastructure to private hands, mortgageting in addition to our farm. That's why Amendment 23 proposes that public-private collaboration to finance basic public services should not be used during the observance of this law. And he also proposes that the concession canons be modified so that their cost does not exceed what the Administration would have to assume in the event of directly financing the execution of it. Look, the incident with the Álvaro Cunqueiro de Vigo Hospital, so many times debated in this budget, is a good example of the reasons behind this amendment. The Government of Galician Union justified collaboration, the use of public-private collaboration so that it could cost the construction of a new hospital. The result was that a hospital that was going to cost 450 million euros will cost us 1,350. Together you have also justified the use of the CPP for a funding problem. And although the conditions of the concession established that financing is the risk and adventure of the concessionaire, it had to be the public sector that sought through the acquisition of financial resources. Ultimately, what was to be a public hospital built with private funds ended up in practice being a private hospital financed with public goods. But, in addition, we want to remember that the Board itself has criticized the abuse of public-private collaboration by warning that it generates uncertainty about the future sustainability of public finances, as it increases non-financial indebtedness, restricts the margin of manoeuvre of future governments and transfers the burden of investments present to future generations. And I also want to remind you that the Board has made payment commitments linked to public-private collaboration that already amount to more than 3,054 million euros by the year 2039 and only in these budgets are expenditure commitments linked to the CPP of 122.1 million euros. In the same way as the reasons behind the amendment I have just explained, Amendment No 24 proposes that the Union cannot, in any case, increase the number of units agreed at educational centres, so that priority is really the protection, the reinforcement of public education. Other amendments refer to title V, local corporations, and they aim to improve and make more objective and transparent economic collaboration between the Union and the municipalities. Other amendments by the BNG aim to strengthen transparency and parliamentary control over the management of budgets, reducing the time limits for the Business Council to provide all the information available to the Committee on the Economy and Business of this Parliament and setting up an Office for Budgetary Control in the Galician Parliament. But we give them special relevance to the amendments that refer to public employment. On the one hand, we propose to clearly recover the offer of public employment. The maintenance of quality public services is incompatible with the policies of reduction practised by this government. Reduced public employment means degrading and precarious services, and the disadvantaged are not just the workers in the public sector, they're all citizens. And if I'm allowed to illustrate with an example, 3,527 jobs were lost from 2011 to 2015 in the Galician Health Service, including 761 medical facilities, 514 nurses and 547 nursing assistants. However, public employment offers convened by the Board will only add 633 new contracts of workers and workers in the public health sector. That is, the Greek health system will lose nearly 2,900 public employees' squares since 2011. That's completely and absolutely impossible to avoid the precariousness of a basic public service by the whole of citizens. For this reason, we propose to eliminate in practice the replenishment rates, raising the rate of replenishment, as a general rule, from 50% to 100%, and even considering that it can be increased above this percentage according to the needs that are detected in fundamental public services and those services that have been most affected by personnel cutting policies since you rule. Other public sector amendments seek to restore the purchasing power of public employees and labour rights that have been violated. Look, government gentlemen, it would be much better, rather than that you every time you intervene to devote so many praises to the sacrifice assumed by public employees, as if it were a sacrifice freely assumed and as if it were not the fruit of an imposition practiced by you, it would be much better than, instead of doing so, to restore the rights of public employees. Public employees must regain their purchasing power, for a reason of justice, because to a large extent, the Central Government and Junta have shifted the cost of cuts to their backs, causing them to suffer from a decrease in real wages since 2009, nothing more and nothing less than 23% by means of wage freezes and cuts in extra wages. But, in addition, these wage cuts served as a reference to the private sector, consolidating the wage devaluation policies of which we have so often spoken in this House – today and tomorrow, without going further – and which have resulted in a brutal increase in inequalities. Finally, our amendments to Article 2 propose to modify the amounts recorded in the states of expenditure and income in line with the amendments we tabled to the sections. Article 2 – I don’t have to remember – is a basic article to answer the questions that we all have to make in assessing these budgets, in terms of spending – who spends it, how it is spent, and for what it is spent – and in terms of income – which are the sources for financing spending policies. So, in this article, all the reasons why we continue to reject this budget project are synthesized. As far as spending is concerned, in the face of the speech of the Government of Galicia and the People's Party, these are not truly expanding budgets. With these budgets, only 3.68 % of all that the successive governments presided over by Nuñez Feijóo have cut off are recovered. They're not social budgets either. The spending of the councils that bear much of the social expenditure grows below average, and the same thing happens if we examine the functional distribution of the expenditure. In these budgets there is no strategy for changing the production model, nor for developing the basic sectors of our economy. And as far as income is concerned, instead of addressing the real tax reforms that our country needs, the budgetary measures that accompany these budgets are regressive and have a clear electoral bias. Besides, from our point of view, as we have already told you, Counselor, these are not credible budgets, and, in the face of the money order announced by his Government, they are markedly continuous budgets. And you know, Counsellor, what are the consequences of this continuity? Let me mention, very briefly, recent data, data that we've known since the Government approved the Budget Project two months ago and presented it to this House, data that has already mentioned my companion Ana Ponton in his intervention in the morning. Look, since the presentation of these budgets, we know that November ended with Galicia as the second territory of the Spanish State where unemployment has increased most; that's in a country that has one of the lowest rates of activity not only in the state but in Europe. We also know in the last two months that 2014 has closed with the loss of 5,820 jobs in the industrial sector, the second largest fall of the entire Spanish state, Counsellor. We know that the growth of GDP in Galicia in the last year is only half the state average and that we are among the five communities with less growth. This is the relevant one, and this would be what you should be worried about your government, Counselor. Their policies are not only preventing Galicia from converging, but the divergence of growth between Galicia and the Spanish state from growing deeper and deeper. But you see, we also know that Galician public debt rose by 0.77% in the third quarter compared to the previous quarter and by 4.82% compared to the third quarter of 2014, by 4.82%, ultimately, in the inter-annual comparison. We therefore know that Galician public debt is already EUR 10.289 million, 18.6 % of our GDP. These are the real results of your policies, Counsellor, and for these reasons we have maintained our total opposition to this budget project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-22-DSPG135.u64	Thank you, Mr. Jorquera. Alternative Left Galician Parliamentary Group. Mr. Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-22-DSPG135.u65	Good afternoon, everyone. Today the spokesperson for the People's Party, Mr. Puy, came soaked with Christmas spirit, and made a very nice metaphor: he said that the mayor of Santiago was Mr. Grinch, and that he wanted to steal Christmas. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. That Christmas spirit, Mr. Grinch, there's a song that says, "Mr. Grinch is evil," that my daughter sings. But you don't mind him stealing Christmas, the Christmas spirit, the mayor of Santiago; what bothers you is that what stole them was Raxoi, and they still don't take it, they still don't take it, they still don't take it. Yes, and then, of course, you're worried about Christmas lights, about the beautiful ones and Mickey Mouse, but look, there's also Dickens Christmas stories, right? And then we could also make a parallel that the ghost of previous Christmas came when Mr. Feijóo was sleeping and gave him a walk through the real Galicia, which you seem not to know, and that previous Christmas ghost could teach them all the young and young people who emigrated out of the country, the 117,000 jobs destroyed or the 140,000 people who don't get any benefits. And that phantom of previous Christmas could also go with Mr. Feijóo to teach him the 115,000 older than 45 years of age who are long-term unemployed, the 127,000 long-lasting unemployed, that you have multiplied by four since they rule. These Christmas stories could also teach them the 62,000 jobs that have been destroyed since they came to rule at this last stage, since 2009, 62,000 jobs that have been destroyed. Also, they would fix Christmas to a lot of people the 40 million euros or 50 that Mr. Bárcenas has in Switzerland, right? They would also fix Christmas to a lot of people, more than Christmas lights and beautiful, right? I would also fix Christmas for you what Mr. Mouse cheated, or Mr. Count Roa too. He was a better mayor, he put the lights in his hour, he was a great mayor. Mr Currás too. They were big mayors. Mr. Agustín Hernández, the great bet of the People's Party to win Compostela, too, has already been seen. The Christmas of the young girls who return from abroad, who are working outside. They also care a lot about Christmas lights and beauts. I think they're a little out of reality. And it's also quite dickensian the tale of Baltar, eh! it's also quite dickensian to offer work for sex, too. And that of plugging people, and that of that in order to work in parliament you have to be a friend or swear loyalty to PP. That's pretty Dickens, too. And... Yeah, we're all portraits, we're all portraits. And you also talked about the second and the third opposition, but you could also do some self-criticism, right? What happened in the municipalities, in the Europeans, in these elections. That's random, because they don't communicate well, do they? Well, it starts with self-criticism, because something has touched them in these last elections. It starts around, because sometimes we're starting to lose our feet in reality, right? And yes, it's the last budget debate in this legislation, and they should take stock too. I've already told you some things: about the job you've destroyed, about the cuts you've made in health - 276 million - in education - 256 million -, 215 in employment policies. They could also balance the debt created. They could also balance the destruction, the reduction in budgets, the consolidated non-financial budget, which is reduced by 2,622 million, 23% since 2009, when GDP in that period fell by 5%. I mean, you guys excuse the crisis, but they made a brutal cut that affects the majority of society. They should start by making a balance sheet by analyzing why, for example, Galicia lost 16,000 inhabitants in 2014 and there are provinces like Ourense that have lost 1.2% of the population, and whether that is a symptom of a country that gives its people opportunities or not to work and undertake vital projects. This is a bad symptom, losing 16,000 people in 2014, an average of 11,000 people lost since 2009. The last year the population rose in Galicia was in 2008. That's the symptom that a lot of people leave the country because there's no work here, and there's no work they do to live, and people don't even consider having a family because they don't have a stable job. You should do that kind of swing, and don't come here to say things you don't believe anymore. When you were imposed in the 2009 elections, the board budget was 11,426 million euros. In 2016, seven budgetary exercises later, the government resources managed by the Board dropped to 8,804 million. A reduction in resources that were intended to provide public services and capitalize the country. The budgets of this autonomous community have been reduced since 2009, an adjustment of almost a quarter of the budget. And also if we add to it the behavior of consolidated capital revenues, which from 2010 experience annual reductions and achieve a total reduction of 433 million euros, which is a 44.4% decrease. The consolidated non-financial income of the Autonomous Community has fallen from EUR 10,252 million in 2008 to EUR 7,755. As I said earlier, in terms of participation in Galician GDP, the budgets were 17.7 per cent, and today they are 14.1 per cent nothing more. That's why, today, when we talk about this tax discount, as Albino Prada says, a black sunday tax, which implies these tax and tax reductions, of which you seem to do nothing but pretend, as if it were absolute truth. We have to think that in order to have quality public services, we have to pay taxes, and those taxes must be progressive, and that they pay the ones they have most to receive who should receive those services and that they could not have them in private. You're not, you're all the reforms you're making are regressives to benefit those from above and to harm those below. Yes, but no, no, we can go to the numbers, but you talk to the people and tell them what it costs to live today, what it costs to buy, what it costs to feed today, and you'll see how they tell you what your tax policy is. Well, for us that black sunday tax is right in the direction of pointing out the structural decline in the resources of the Autonomous Community, of the Public Administration. The result is what we all know: grave deterioration of the whole public, economic recession, destruction of employment and absence of a new and necessary production model for Galicia, pain for the majority of society. This basically has a goal: to reduce the weight of the public and open fields for the private business. In Galicia we saw a huge retreat from the public. The weight of Galician board budget in GDP is a sample of that, as I told you. It turns out that with this balance and with this situation of neglect of dependents, health cuts, education, social services, and the lack of effective policies to promote the productive sectors, you now promise as a star measure a tax discount that foresees a reduction in income of EUR 140 million. That's your great strategy for this country, a smooch for low income, which is cut off instead for social services, and also a gift for high incomes. In addition, with an underlying reactionary speech, in which to pay taxes is bad, and deliberately to put the public at risk and gradually slimming the public, the fair guarantee of a fair and balanced society. The first thing we should ask ourselves is whether we can and should afford a tax reduction in this situation, when there are a high number of unemployed people who do not charge unemployment insurance, when all pensioners present and future, almost all of the workers have suffered cuts or losses of purchasing power, when health and education deteriorate and their payroll increases, when they disappear and the dependency benefits are severely cut off, when the scholarships are cut down and fees are imposed for the courts, when in recent years public employees, most of them with very low income, have been cut off in an important way, when our fiscal pressure is one of the lowest in Europe. In this situation of social emergency, would it not be more sensible to maintain and use those resources to meet the needs of those who do not have enough income? But nothing, whatever the party is going to be, Junta prepares us a nice tax discount, which, as I said, means calderilla for the lower classes, but which will end up paying with the increase in indirect taxes, rates or reduction of public services or services. And we say that the only way to reverse the recessive spiral in which we find ourselves is precisely the one that would serve to improve social well-being, urgently restore destroyed public services and extend them to accommodate urgent needs, still neglected, which implies universal coverage of public services, attention to public dependence and public child education since the age of 0. Thus, many jobs would be created in these public services. In addition, measures are being taken to increase labour stability and to meet the current precariousness. So it would increase private consumption. From there our amendments also to restore to public staff their salary cuts and to restore the squares that have been left vacant in services such as health and education. Or for rural personnel. They just published the data on the lack of execution of the rural development programme funds of the previous period, they lost 200 million euros for not being executed, for lack of management capacity. If you cut into the chocolate of the oyster from the office staff of the comarcas and Agader, and then you lose 200 million euros that are unable to execute due to lack of management capacity, or from the Feder funds, what can you stay? I don't know the data yet, but they may not run EUR 400 million. We've still reviewed recently, in the previous plenary session, what was the level of execution of budgets, and that's because you cut into a staff needed to manage and dynamize these aids. After the elections, the cuts will come in addition, which will justify on the basis that there is no income to maintain this welfare state. This is a safe way to loosen public administrations, so that the public lose weight, to enter into the private business of health and education, so that people with that calderella have to save themselves one day to take care of a bigger person, an older person. Yes, yes, yes. I don't know if you're aware of the cut in dependency aid, which costs a lot of people to pay for residences, Mr. Puy. I don't know if they live in the real world, but I know several cases, eh!, I don't think you're going to lie to me. And for us all the data point to a country that is less coherent, more unequal, more insolidary, with less resources in education and health, with bad prospects for the future. For us the economy of this country does not seem to be meant to be a high value added economy, with high human capital, nor to protect its citizens. And we believe that it must be changed, in the face of an exhausted model that doesn't give for more and that society knows that it doesn't give for more, that it is seen as exhausted by those who once voted for the People's Party as well. We must move the country towards other policies, which generate wealth, employment, social justice, the protection of the weak, policies that allow those who have a lot to pay more and that gradually and redistributively guarantee sufficient tax revenues to maintain and improve the public education, health and social services system. A new path that will provide our future rural, our agro, which generates value; a new path that prioritizes the use of people's care, a rational expenditure on infrastructure, which maintains a powerful public R & D system – the only way that small and medium-sized enterprises have access to innovation –. And in that new country, I don't think 10,000 people a year will be lost, and young people will have nowhere to apply their effort and knowledge, whether they're friends of the People's Party or not, whether they're friends of Baltar or not, and they can have a decent life. This model offers us, and above all it offers young people, a precarious future, precarious and unstable jobs. And that's also about political self-criticism. We also have to look at the ages of the voters of each force, and why young people no longer believe in certain policies, because they simply see it in their lives, they don't give it the future, they don't give it any hope for the future; that's an unquestionable reality. And it doesn't change with communication policies, it doesn't change with communication policies. They can win the debate here, because it's 41, but reality is very bad. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-22-DSPG135.u66	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. Socialist Parliamentary Group. Mr. González Santín.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-22-DSPG135.u67	Thank you, President. Well, we're here today at the end of the debate of this Budget Act this year 2016, a law in which we've had a lot of debate, a lot of debate in committee, here too in this plenary, and that I announce that we will also vote against this presentation. We shall vote against a motion which I suppose will also come forward with the votes of the People's Party, but which, of course, is not strange, because we have made more than 600 amendments to this budget; and to the articulated text, in particular, we have done 47. And, well, apart from the amendments made by this group, the rest of the opposition groups have also made a similar number, right? It's also at least curious, isn't it, that with such a number of amendments there is no profit or anything that can be accepted. But, well, let's hope this is done by – let's say – maintaining coherence with the Government. In any case, I will focus, in my presentation, on the amendments which the Socialist Group has made and which have already been rejected in the Commission and which are referred to in the articulation, and that the most significant ones, from our point of view, come to improve the Greek public services, starting with the theme of Risga, a provision which we understand is necessary and fundamental to Galicia, from which we, apart from maintaining that expandable credit character – an ample credit that we believe must obviously have these kinds of benefits – we demand two more things. The first is that these benefits are settled in time and form, that is, that no one is left without this allowance when he has the right to it; and we set a deadline, a deadline for doing this resolution, because we understand that if a retirement, an disability can be solved by medical evidence that implies in forty-five days, Risga can also be solved within a reasonable period, and this time limit we understand that it is two months, and so we make it clear. We also believe that if these benefits are not settled within that deadline, the Galician Board, the corresponding councillor, should pay the kind of interest that applies to Article 26.6 of Law 5/2003, an interest that – as you know – applies to people who do not meet the obligations of the Administration. We also include another expandable credit, a credit that we believe has to have this category – and this is not the case in the Budget Act – which is the one dedicated to university scholarships and training. We believe there can be no young man who loses his right to study or who cannot study because he has no funds for that, or that the Galician Union cannot devote to this the funds that are needed so that our boys can study without any kind of problem. We also make an amendment to Article 11 to budget the Board of Auditors, to give it a budget that will be necessary for it to fulfil the new mandates given by the new Law 8/2015, which, as you know, makes the Board of Auditors competent to prevent the fight against fraud. We understand that we cannot fight fraud if there is no money devoted to it. And we therefore believe that the Galician Board of Auditors should already be provided with these budgets of the resources necessary for this purpose. We also understand that another one of the eves that has this budget is all those policies dedicated to staff, that is, the resources of the staff working for the public administration. And so we introduced a minimum wage increase for all the scales and all the employees of the Galician Union of 1.5% in relation to the salary paid to them on December 31, 2015, so that they really have an effective rise with regard to this year. We also include something that has been lost and that we believe that it is necessary in the public service, which is the recovery of the social action fund, for a value of 1% of the salary of Chapter I. We understand that there are certain benefits that must be borne by the administration. We're thinking, for example, of an official who has expenses -- let's imagine -- for medication, for chronic illness, that he has to kill them; and that, therefore, this should be borne as previously. We also enter the replenishment rate, the replenishment rate that has so far been fixed at 50%, and in this case rose to 100 percent, in particular, in those squares described in Article 13.1. We want that 100 percent replenishment rate to be for all administration squares, except in Article 13.1, which we want is that it has no limit. That is, if these squares that appear here regulated, 100 squares are depreciated because they can't be hired more than 100 people, but rather if they hire all the necessary ones, they would be the basic services of the Administration. We also believe that there are certain things that have no economic cost but that they do help the public administration to work better, as may be the subject of transfer contests. It is giving – moreover, with complaints from the unions and all the workers – that there are no transfer contests, giving such curious situations as that a person who works in Lugo because he has his place in Santiago and one who works in Santiago has his place in Lugo; in the case of workers is still more critical and they have been without this competition since 2011. We are asking that this transfer contest be made and that it be in addition to the usual way, that every year there be transfer contests, so that all staff members who are entitled to do so will be able to occupy the vacancies. Also, when we talk about public administration, we understand that there are certain wages – it's a subject that, well, we don't want to do much of it, but I think if we have to say so – that they have to be consistent, the salaries of the public administration. We believe that the President of the Union must have the highest pay of the Autonomous Community of Galicia. If we take the Community budget, the President's salary is EUR 67,592; we believe that this should be the maximum, and the rest of the posts – say, for example, the Board of Auditors, the Advisory Council, the People's Valor – would have to have an equal wage. We make an amendment, in particular to the people's Valator's salary, in which we put precisely the pay you have in these positions. We also understand that all the high offices of the Galician Council should publish their heritage in the Official Journal of Galicia, as the president and his advisers are doing so; there should be no difference between them, in my opinion. And we also understand that certain supplements that have the senior positions of the Galician Union should always be referred to as the previous salary. I'm referring, in particular, to the supplement or addition that have the high positions of the Galician Union coming from other places where they have a higher salary. But this plus can only count on those payouts that the original post is fixed at this post; they couldn't count any other kind of payouts, like they could be gratifications, productivity and so on; and so we also make it appear in another amendment. We also believe that all high-ranking positions that by holding their office, by representing their office, must belong to or go to boards of directors cannot be paid for attending these boards of directors. And I emphasize the word "remuneration", not "indemnification." We understand that if there's a salary in the board of directors, these should be entered into the General Treasury of the Galician Union. We also believe that for the staff working on the Galician board, with respect to extra pay, they should form or be composed of 100 percent of the supplements that the worker has in his normal payroll; that is, equal to the extra pay than the normal pay of any month. And then in this budget we also noticed something very curious, didn't we? We've also made an amendment with respect to possible cabinet staff. We had agreed with the People's Party two years ago to put an amendment in which all potential staff, for a matter of transparency, would appear in such a specific way as to where they were, who they were, and the pay they paid. In the previous year, last year, we tried to increase the transparency of this rule that we had agreed to the previous year, not being approved by the People's Party, but, curiously, in this Budgets Act disappears, which we had agreed two years ago is no longer there. I've been looking at the Transparency Law, because it seemed normal, didn't it?, that you get out of here and get into the Transparency Law, but in the Transparency Law it doesn't appear this, with which I don't know why this got away from there. We've also made an amendment, which we understand is reasonable, with respect to the maximum accounts you'll have to charge the staff you're in the Greek universities. The only thing we've done is to match these maximum counts – I repeat – that they had in 2009, which seems to us something really reasonable that looks like the salaries of universities – I repeat, the maximum wages – with the ones they had in 2009. And then we also made a number of amendments to try to control public administration spending because it is done more reasonably. Among them we can highlight one in which all projects that exceed the EUR 5 million – projects, we understand ourselves, of course, on account – have to have a report on the evaluation of the project, as well as a report on its opportunity. What we would deal with with with this amendment is, first, to know that these projects – I repeat, with certain entities, are done by different advisories – are the right ones; i.e., whether comparatively we approach this project or would approach another project, and then avoid possible modifications of this type of project. It is also an old claim that we will also make year after year, which we believe also increases transparency in public administration and in procurement, and is that of all contracts – we are talking about all types of minor contracts or contracts that do not reach the amounts of advertising – we are sending to this Parliament a relationship – we are talking about, at no time about contracts or the file – in which the object of the contract appears, the tendering budget, the adjudication procedure, the bidders presented, as well as the persons to whom the contract was awarded. We also believe that grants – which would be all grants coming from the European Union –, apart from the material checks made by the various advisories and all formal checks on invoices, documents and so on, would have to have a material check on investment projects by the Galician Union technicians to verify that these investment projects meet the criteria that mark European standards. And it would also be logical, speaking of subsidies, that all the obligations imposed on people who apply for a grant, when they can be removed or they don't have to be made, because they don't. I am referring, in particular, to all the certifications of being aware of Fedanda, social security and so on. This can be done perfectly by the Galician board through telematic notification or communication. And the only thing that would be needed is that in the application sheet of that subsidy, Galician Union is authorized to consult this data. This, in addition, would prevent us and could delete Article 51 of the responsible declaration, and in addition, we would have the data in a reliable way. And to finish, we also talk about public-private collaboration contracts. We understand that these types of contracts could not be used for the construction of hospitals and also for the construction of educational centres, and when used they would have to put a limit on them. In this amendment, the limit we set is 1.7 % of the consolidated budget of each year; that is, they can never exceed these types of contracts. We also believe – and so we have done it repeatedly already in recent years – that concerted squares in educational centres should not be increased, and so we make it known, in particular, in Article 55.5a. Now to finish, we also make a series of amendments that are geared towards having or controlling what is spent on advertising by the Galician board, institutional advertising that we believe should have a binding previous report and be before all these expenses authorized by the Business Council. Because many times all these expenses come masked or come in form -- let's say -- combined with certain projects and we're unable to differentiate what's spent on advertising and what's actually being spent on the project it's about. We also believe that we can increase the revenue of the public estate. Here in this part of the Budget Act – tomorrow we will discuss the second part, which is the Accompanying Law – we propose that the minimum exempt tax be reduced to EUR 350,000, that is, by discounting EUR 300,000, which we believe is, of course, quite a respectable figure and that it would not affect for anything the middle classes of this country. And to finish, we also make a series of changes or new layouts. For example, we make an additional provision in which we ask for the refund of the extra payments of 2013, 2014 and 2015 of public employees. A third transitional provision in which we request the gradual recovery of the IT supplement that the employees of the Galician Union have. And, finally, a new single derogation provision; in particular, that provision for derogating Law 1/2012 of 29 February from temporary measures of certain public employment matters of the Autonomous Community of Galicia; we understand that if this law was a temporary measure law of the year 2012, we believe that this temporality has already passed and that it can and should also be repealed. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-22-DSPG135.u68	Thank you, Mr. González Santín. People's Parliamentary Group. Mrs. Rodríguez Arias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-22-DSPG135.u69	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, everyone. Mr. Counsellor, we know this: it was clear that the opposition is suspending the budgets of the Union. What I would like to remember is that they're suspending some accounts that are going to cover all the less taxes, investments, less deficits, more social spending and more employment. These are the budgets you suspend, the budgets of the Galician Union. With regard to its amendments, they present 121 amendments to the articulate, amendments that bet, one more year, on the same recipes that you submitted in recent years, amendments where you place your economic manual for the recovery of Galicia. And what's your manual? What are your income policies? Now, look, their income policy is based on three issues: firstly, to increase taxes to the Greeks and to the Greeks; secondly, to introduce others of doubtful legality; and thirdly, to increase debt. These are your recipes and this is your economic manual. You propose to raise taxes to the Greeks; the German Government proposes to lower taxes to middle classes and families with less income. The opposition proposes more tax burden and less income available to citizens; the German Government proposes less tax burden and more income available to citizens, specifically, 140 million euros more available to citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not demagogy and this is not a rally of general elections; this is less taxed to citizens, less taxed to the Greeks, and 140 million euros more at the disposal of citizenship. [[Applause]] The opposition proposes to raise the tax of heritage to the Greeks; we do not agree. Why? Because the German Government has already increased by 20% this tax in 2013, and because Galicia is already the autonomous community where it is most paid for the property tax; you want to increase it even more, we believe it is not necessary. You propose to raise the IRPF to citizens; the German Government does what it does is to lower the autonomous rate of IRPF to average incomes and low incomes, a discount that will benefit 98.5% of the taxpayers, a discount of up to 380 euros of savings per declarant. The truth is, it's funny: if budgets increase, you criticize the Government of the Union; if budgets go down, you'll criticize the Government of the Union the same way. Of course, we're thinking about right now is citizens, and right now citizens are going to have to pay less taxes. You also propose to raise the tax of successions and donations; the German Government does what it does is eliminate this tax to 99% of its citizens. In short, what you're suggesting: raising taxes to the Greeks and to the Greeks; what the Government proposes: an intense tax discount, which will have an impact of between 140 and 150 million euros. In addition to increasing taxes, you also want to increase indebtedness, in particular, the AGE Parliamentary Group – which, of course, spoke very little about budgets today –; in particular, they want to increase indebtedness by 200 million euros. And look, Galicia is the second autonomous community in which public debt has been reduced since 2008. You are incoherent in your speech, because, on the one hand, they criticize the public debt that our community has, and on the other hand, they come here with an amendment to increase the public debt of our community by 200 million euros. [[Murmurs.]] Look, we do, the Government of the Union, what it does is turn to self-debtedness in a responsible and controlled way. Galicia's debt/GDP ratio is five points below the average of the autonomous communities, and if we applied its revenues, Galicia would have at least 2,700 million euros more debt. You must therefore agree with your own parliamentary group. What do you want? To criticise the debt of the Autonomous Community of Greece or to increase the debt of the Greek Community by 200 million? Budgets provide citizens with EUR 400 million more, EUR 400 million more for 2016, more resources for people who need it, more resources for health, education, social policies and employment. And please review the budgets. You can't come here to lie and say you're cut in health, education, social policies and employment. Because look, for health it's €103.3 million more, plus; for education, €92 million more; for social policies, €69.2 million more; for employment, €16.8 million more. Please check the document, please check it. More resources for families and for children, EUR 97.2 million for families and for children, an increase of 40%, of 40%, in relation to the previous year. The expansion of the nursery bonus, the creation of the rural care provider, the creation of the family card of EUR 100 per month to meet the basic costs of children and children born from January 1st. This is to support families, that is to support children in Galicia. [[Applause]] More resources for dependents; in 2016, €324.2 million is allocated more to dependents; we're talking about 157 percent more than it was intended for in 2009, and you know that. They know that the ratio of people attended has doubled, and in addition, in 2016 there will be a thousand high news in the system of dependent people. And 76% more public squares have been launched in social infrastructure, more resources for people at risk of social exclusion. A social plan to combat economic inequality is under way, with EUR 20 million. How can you come here and say that the Galician Union has no program to support people with less resources, the worse people are going through? If the president of the board came here, the councillor came here, explained what measures this social plan had against economic inequality. He came here to say he was endowed with 20 million euros, he came here to explain the concrete measures for children, for the family, to fight child poverty. And you come here today, after supposedly studying budgets, and they say there is no plan to fight child poverty. And they increase risk budgets by 5 million euros, reaching 52.7 million euros, and you keep saying that budgets for inclusion are cut. And besides, it's a huge game, which, apart from the 52.7 million euros, you know that this match is being extended according to needs and according to the requests of those people who need to receive a social integration income right now. And more resources for employment; 15% increase the budget for active employment policies; 15% increase guidance and job search programmes; €7.5 million increase in training; special attention is given to the most difficult groups, to young people, to long-term unemployed, to the integration of people with disabilities – defined as €9.8 million – into long-term unemployed – given with €2 million. That's why you're reviewing the budget for Galician Union by 2016. We know that we have different economic models, that the Galician Union has an economic model and that opposition groups each have a different economic model for Galician recovery. But what they have to know is that these budgets represent what they all represent, what they represent for the Greeks, are less taxes – and you are a critic –, more investments – and you deny –, less deficit – and you are a critic –, more social expenditure – and you deny – and more resources to fight unemployment. Of course, we think this is a proper policy. It wasn't easy to get here, it wasn't easy, but it's arrived and we're in a recovery situation right now. And what we're doing is we're moving that recovery to citizens, putting on money so that citizens can come and have support from those people and those families who have less resources. There's more investment in education, more investment in health care, more investment in employment and, of course, more investment in those people who need it. Fewer budgets, more investment; less deficit, more health and more employment. [[Applause]] We therefore invite them to review their amendments, because we believe that accepting their amendments would be to return to the past. And we think that right now, at the moment we are, Galicia can't go back to the past. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-22-DSPG135.u70	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Arias. The role of the parliamentary groups in defining the amendments advocated by the other groups. Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-22-DSPG135.u71	Thank you, President. Well, I want to start with the intervention of the People's Party, because there's something where we don't understand each other and it seems impossible to understand each other. Going up or down taxes defines a lot. Lowering direct taxes is an attack on the most disadvantaged classes, because precisely in direct taxes is where people, the great capital, can contribute so that those needs of the most disadvantaged people can be covered. Whenever direct taxes are dropped, the poorest ones are harmed and the richest ones benefit; it's that you're him a-b-c, it's that if we don't understand that we start propaganda. Do you really want to lower taxes that favor popular classes? I'm going down the IVE, up the IRPF and down the IVE, up the direct taxes and down the indirect taxes, and the rest is pure propaganda, and people know it. That's why what happens in voting, because people don't look at that social policy reflected in the actions of the Union. On the contrary: on the one hand, the speech goes, and on the other hand, the measures that are really taken and that are seriously prejudiced by popular classes; that's the big problem. That if the opposition wants to increase the debt. It's just that debt isn't good or bad, it depends on what one owes. Of course, if we commit ourselves to favor friends and abandon the majority of society, because very bad debt, but if we commit ourselves to make a public hospital well, and if we commit ourselves to doing a private hospital wrong, it depends on what one owes. And you're creating debt to the country to favor the economic interests of certain groups. That's the problem of indebtedness. As for Risga. Well, of course, they talked about the family card of 100 euros, the energy aids for two months a year. But does anyone really think that it sells anything? It's just that if you've changed, social policy is not a Catholic policy of alms; we're not here asking for alms, nor if you come here to legislate alms, you come to get equality, and that's what you don't do. That's why they demand more contributions to risk, because it increases the number of people, because you're incapable of creating quality jobs, and the job they create leads people to continue living in charity. So no one can believe the social policy of a People's Party that has been punishing this country for years and years, and in the last seven years; a People's Party that has approved a bloody labour reform, which condemned misery to the working class, which ended with its rights, which ended with collective bargaining. How will they believe if everything they do goes against the interests of popular classes? That's why I'm going to vote in favour of all the amendments to the opposition, amendments aimed at protecting our language, valuing our language and our culture; amendments aimed at collecting talent that is abroad; amendments aimed at creating research teams in Galicia that give this country stability and the future; amendments aimed at expanding free software, or at creating a unique device for fighting and preventing forest fires, not that one that you have that discriminates the Seaga workers who work with different rights, with different technical means, with different material means. A real chaos is what you've been voting for, for the interests of mayors of your party, for localist interests, to give them what they want, to sell that policy that you do. How will I support all the amendments you reject about public housing or those that refuse about gender-based violence, about gender equality, about legal assistance? There is, of course, a lack of dialogue, a lack of understanding, a lack of understanding of this society, a lack of understanding and listening. That's why the opposition's amendments have all been rejected. There's no explanation for the People's Party going up in the machito, say that the others are all wrong, that only he's right. Well, if only the People's Party is right, so go, they'll stay alone and eventually disappear into their social myopia. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-22-DSPG135.u72	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. Parliamentary Group of the Galician Nationalist Block, Mr. Jorquera.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-22-DSPG135.u73	Thank you, Mr. President. Look, Mrs. Rodríguez Arias, you accused the opposition groups of coming here with the same old recipes. No, who comes with the same recipes as always is the People's Party and its Government, and the consequences we already know, transforming an economic crisis into an unprecedented social crisis, and further accentuate the divergence between Galicia and the countries around it. You're talking about the opposition here proposing to increase taxes, but aren't you the ones who raised the VAT, aren't you the ones who raised the tax on hydrocarbons? You come to tell us that opposition proposals mean that people have less income available. Look, what it means to have less available income is a job reform that has established and legalized the wages of poverty, which makes 31% of Galician employees cover less than the minimum wage, they cover less than 640 euros a month. That's what it means to have less available income. If Mr. Pedro Puy admitted this morning, he wouldn't be careful, Mrs. Rodríguez Arias, though he tried to turn back the data which in themselves are demolition. He said that Galicia grew under the state average for two reasons: because there was less public spending and there was less consumption. In short, the two variables that depend on the two policies, less public spending and less consumption capacity by people -- less growth. It still sells us that we're betting on a model of healthy growth. Look, it will be for Mr. Amancio Ortega that model of healthy growth, Mrs. Rodríguez Arias. You come to censor the opposition you propose to increase indebtedness. But look, the reality is that you've been dogging fiscal consolidation policies, they've been able to triple the debt since Mr. Feijóo is president of Galicia's board, that's the reality, Mrs. Rodríguez Arias. You have announced that these budgets increase the allocation for employment programs, but do you know how much they have been executed in employment programs in previous services? They stopped running a euro of every three, Mrs. Rodríguez Arias. So don't sell us milongas, which is what you're doing with this budget project. And already to adjust to what should be the object of this second intervention, to say that we will support the amendments to the articulated of the other opposition groups. The People's Party makes a lot of reasons for the opposition parliamentary groups to be taxed through different proposals. It's logical, we're different parliamentary groups, each with his own political ideas. But there is a fundamental coincidence in all the tax proposals that opposition groups make: don't make demagogy with taxes, as you do; from the conception that taxes are necessary and that it is also necessary to use the tax route to reinforce social spending and productive investment, and to establish greater progress in the tax system, to increase tax pressure on those who really have the most. As there is a clear background to the public employment amendments, both to end at once the replacement rates, so that there is a powerful public job offer, and to restore the labour and remuneration rights that have been violated by public workers; as there is a clear background match also in other amendments. Look, and I conclude already because this is the last intervention of the budget procedure, although tomorrow we will debate the Law on tax and administrative measures accompanying it. It turns out that the processing of budgets and the accompanying law absorbs much of the parliamentary work in this partsession, and it turns out that after days and days of debate on amendments in the Commission, and now in plenary, the processing of these budgets will be settled as in past exercises. The opposition groups presented a total of 1,315 partial amendments to these budgets, if we add the amendments to the articulated and the amendments to the sections. And the Popular Parliamentary Group, once again showing its extraordinary capacity for dialogue, only accepted some technical amendment which brought little less than corrections of budgets; that is the demonstration of the outstanding capacity for dialogue of the People's Group. Finally, as you have been used to us, you can't do anything other than use the knee in this Parliament, but you have a total inability to accept that many of the amendments of the opposition groups are enormously reasonable and to have a desire for dialogue with them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-22-DSPG135.u74	Thank you, Mr. Jorquera. Parliamentary Group of the Alternative Left Gallega, Mr Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-22-DSPG135.u75	Well, Mrs. Rodríguez Arias, when you talk about lowering taxes on the Greeks, you should need a little more. As always, you use the half-truths, or even demagogy, to talk about these issues. Look, you should speak and explain your changes to the IRPF, so you can see, because taxes are not paid for citizens, you pay for low-class citizens, middle-class and high-ranking, and on the basis of that you can make reforms that are progressive and redistributive, and what you do, which is benefit those who have the most. Because look, even if it's the same downside for all the tranches, that's not called progressiveity, Mrs. Rodríguez Arias. You said it was a reform that benefits 98% of the Greeks and the Greeks, so it can't be progressive. Look, let's see, for the sections between 20,200 and 33,000, there's a significant increase of 20,200 and 33,000. Look, between the 20,200 to 27700 euros tax rate goes from 14 to 15,5, and between the 27.701 to 33,000 goes from 14 to 17, and instead from 53,400 to 60,000 you lower the type from 21.5 to 20.5. You're going down to the high ground, and it's just like Mr. Montoro with the tax reform they've made, a retrogressive fiscal reform. With the tax reform that Mr Montoro made a taxpayer of EUR 1 million, he saved EUR 61.338, and an average contributor of EUR 30,000 saved 488. What's good for the taxpayer of 30,000 euros, 488 euros a year, or if they have the public services for which I don't have to pay coupons, or if they don't get the VAT, or if they don't have the children's dining room? The answer is quite clear. Of course, in taxes you don't treat everyone the same, you do always apply the same recipes, which is to benefit those above by not touching Sicav when Mr. Montoro's fiscal reform is done. He didn't touch Sicav or play the fight against tax fraud, nothing!, on the contrary, amnesty and receiving them in the Ministry of the Interior. So I realize a little more, because successive tax reforms in this country have increased inequality and have been in the opposite direction of Article 31 of the Constitution; they have been regressive, and they have borne much more tax burden on indirect taxes than on direct taxes. They don't use the demagogy of the four and a half euros from the dining rooms. To make a truly progressive and redistributive system apply it to direct taxes, and then you also talked about cuts. See, since 2009 you have reduced the employment promotion budget by 215 million euros, 51%, reduction in employment promotion by 215 million euros, 51% in the same period when unemployment increased by 61,000 people! In these seven years, 276 million euros have been cut into health care, 256 in education, 215 in employment policies and 156 in housing, and yet we have not come down to the level of execution of these games, as was said before, and we will see that the issue is still bloodier. Look, I was talking about debt. Of course, it's up to you. Of course the debt can be used, but it depends on what, but it's just that you've come here promising austerity and good management and have gone from a debt of 3,800 million euros to the current 10,200. Besides, you have to add to your hidden debt for public-private funding, which we add 852 million of the public-private contracts. And it's going to generate a cash flow of 3,054 million euros up to 2040, a big mortgage. The large beneficiaries are the contracting companies of highways and hospitals. And so, of course, the big managers, the austeres, when they arrived at the Galician Summit, spent 393 million euros on debt spending. And you in the 2016 budgets plan... in 2009 you spent 393 million euros on debt service, and in 2016 you forecast 1,623 million euros on debt service. The non-financial consolidated budget has been reduced by €2.622 million, 23% of 2009, and the debt service has increased by 313% of the increase...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-22-DSPG135.u76	It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-22-DSPG135.u77	...to pay the debt. If in 2009 we had to spend 3,3% of the total budget on debt service, in 2016 we would have to dedicate 16%, and all this in exchange for what? In exchange for what I told you earlier, about destroying jobs, about the fact that the occupied population had come down more than 100,000 people, about forcing emigration to young people and girls, about not even knowing how to encourage and stimulate our productive sectors, about the fact that every year since you rule, we've been more than 11,000 less people in Galicia, because people have to leave and people don't have children because they don't have work stability. That's your legacy, with these recipes to benefit those from above at the expense of those below. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-22-DSPG135.u78	Thank you very much. Socialist Group. Mr. González Santín has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-22-DSPG135.u79	Thank you, President. Mrs. Arias, of course I think the counselor can tell you that he has made a brilliant defense of the budgets of the Board. I pointed out what you were saying, besides I was attentive and I think he said less taxes, less debt, more investments, more social spending; and he added: this is not demagogy, this is not an electoral rally. I took note... well, then you'll clear it up. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] It's reality. [[Murmurs.]] I wonder, how do you do that, Mrs Arias? No, no. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Well, you'll have to explain it again, because I certainly didn't understand it. Of course, if you reduce your income and increase your expenses, to me your bills, Counselor, don't match me. I'll tell you with total sincerity. Speaking of taxes, you said we raised taxes, different groups. Look, Mrs. Arias, we've raised some tax, not all of us, for example, the theme of property tax is that it's true that we're raising it, we're lowering the minimum exemption. But we also know who pays the estate tax. And with regard to the IRPF, which we did not do here, in the Budget Law, but in the Accompanying Law, but it is the same, because we also raised it, but we only raised it to incomes above 60,000, 90,000 and 120,000, for the rest it remained. So it's not us who raised the taxes, Mrs Arias, that you were the ones who climbed the VAT, the ones who went up the IRPF, the ones who increased the payments, and the only one who got down, the only one who got down, the only ones who were the wages with that job reform. And it's true, no, no, but you have to say it, no, no, no, they've increased taxes to everyone, because for some they've made an amnesty because they couldn't do it either. So, I'm telling you, you have to check what he says. [[Murmurs.]] As far as the different groups are concerned, we make different proposals, because yes, it is true. Of course, each group has its own proposals, and I have already announced here that we will support the proposals of both the Galga de Left Alternative Group and the BNG and the Joint Group. And, of course, if you read the small letter, of course we're talking about Article 2, of course it doesn't coincide with Article 2 of the three groups of the Socialist Party, but the background. I allow myself the luxury of seeing that we wanted the opposition groups and what we coincided with all the groups in making these budgets. Look, all the groups are trying to increase the R & D+i, to bet on the talent and that the people who had to leave Galicia come back and can investigate here. All groups believe that we have to bet on the rural environment and the dairy sector, which needs solutions, all of them! We also all agree that social policies must be increased to reduce poverty and social exclusion. Yes, but for all this, it takes money and it needs resources. And so all groups believe that energy has to be a right, of course, and not a luxury for the population. And we also believe that it is necessary to take advantage of the municipalities, of collaboration with municipalities, which are the closest administrations to citizens, and that they can provide a better service than they are doing so far because of lack of resources. And we also believe that the German Government, and this is also common for all groups, has to make a commitment determined by the environment, by renewable energies. On all these issues we agreed all groups. The theme of Industry 4.0 seems very good to us. Yes, but the reality is that to increase employment in this country, the part of Industry 4.0 has to invest in another type of work, in agricultural work and in other types of work which, of course, are much more in need of public support than Industry 4.0. And it's also curious that we share all opposition groups with health care. Specifically with the theme of Vigo hospital. A hospital that all opposition groups believe should be public. We also created it when all opposition groups defended, for example, that there were hemodynamics, radiotherapy and nuclear medicine in Lugo. It seems they're going in there, not at all, but it seems that in the end, too, the People's Party believes that if these services are needed in Lugo. And also all groups we believe and are concerned about public workers, about public employment. Because public workers are the ones who make the Greek public services work properly and give the services they have to give. For all this I believe – and I will not repeat again what the people who came before me in the word – that of the more than 1,000 amendments that we have made there would be something else to take advantage of. I hope that if they make the next budget, I don't know whether they will or not, I say I don't know if they will, because maybe before they do it, they haven't done it again, but this time they do it the same way, because the next budget is taken into account by some of the opposition measures. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-22-DSPG135.u80	Thank you very much, Mr. Santín. People's Group. You have the floor to Mrs. Rodríguez Arias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-22-DSPG135.u81	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Santín, we know that you have understood that the proposal of the Galician Board is progressive, you know that the proposal of the Galician Board is for less income, less taxes; it seems that another spokesman, specifically the spokesperson of AGE, did not understand what the proposal of the Galician Board was, but, if you wish, we can explain it again. 70% of Galician income – when you say you're going to lower your income, IRPF to most of the Greeks... – are between €12,450 and €17,707. Perfect! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] So the rents of the tranches up to EUR 12,450, now with the proposal of the Galician Union, will pay EUR 622,50 less. Income of 17,707, 20 euros will be paid 635,64 euros. The high incomes, for example, 200,000 euros, will pay 1,151 euros more. They used to pay 40.08%, now they pay 40.66%. [[Murmurs.]] So if you don't understand that this is progressive, come here and defend your proposal. And your proposal, the AGE's proposal, is to increase the taxes on the Greeks that are on the stretch of between EUR 12,500 and EUR 17,500. And that for us is the low income, and it turns out that for AGE it's the high income and you have to increase their budgets. You defend your proposal, but not critical of the fact that the Council of Galicia's proposal is not progressive, because you look at it, you just recognize the spokesperson Santín, and you just recognize the rest of the parliamentary groups. If you don't like her, you can criticize her, but you can't lie. I understand your proposal is hard to explain in this Parliament, but you explain to the citizens, you explain to the citizens what your proposal is: to raise taxes on low income and average income in Galicia. And look, you want to increase your wealth tax. They just recognized him, he's explicit in his amendments. And you know that the wealth tax in Galicia is where the most is paid, one of the autonomous communities where the most is paid for by the heritage tax. And you want him up. Yes or no? Yes, they want to raise the wealth tax to the Greeks, when it's already 20 per cent in 2013, and you want to raise the IRPF, specifically you to middle income and low income in our community. And look, low- and half-income, I explained to them: they're going to benefit 98.5% of the Greeks. [[Murmurs.]] The tax of successions and prayers, do you want to raise it or not? If they want him up. The Galician Union wants to reduce and eliminate that tax to 99% of citizens. Do you want to increase the debt? Yes, in 200 million euros, but then they say debt is necessary, it depends on what. So, look, debt can explain to you examples of investment thanks to debt in our community. In education 31 educational centres built or expanded, 73.8 million euros; in health care, 36 health centres completed or reformed and 15 more lawful; new emergencies in the hospital of Coruña; expansion of Ourense, Salnés and Burela. In well-being, 4 Alzheimer's centers, 23 construction projects of day centers, occupational centers or residences. 38 day centres and 72 children's schools were launched. This is investments because of the debt you're criticizing and you're saying that Galician Union doesn't use debt to citizens. The Galician Union used debt for more education, more health and more well-being, and why do you want to raise debt? Why do you want to raise your debt? [[Applause]] And they're still on their side, and I'm going to repeat it again: 282 million euros more in social policies; 103.3 million euros more for health, to improve our health and care for the Greeks and the Greeks. 92 million more for education; 69.2 million more for social policies, to help families, to help people in situations of social exclusion, to help dependent people. 16.8 million more to fight unemployment in our community. We're talking about budgets with less tax burden and more income available to citizens, and you're not in agreement and you're critical. We're talking about a budget where social spending increases, we're talking about an budget where there's more resources for families and children, more resources for older people, for people at risk of social exclusion. Some accounts that are going to assume for all the less taxed, more investment, less deficit, more social spending and more employment. A few accounts, of course, elaborate...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-22-DSPG135.u82	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-22-DSPG135.u83	...of rigor and seriousness, question that you have not taken into account in your amendments. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-22-DSPG135.u84	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodríguez Arias. Status of expenditure voting Vote of the budget of the sections and dependent entities
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-22-DSPG135.u85	Then let's start the vote. We started by voting on states of expenditure, sections and instrumental entities. I'd ask, please, a little attention, because it's going to be a little long and not... Well, sections and instrumental entities dependent on them. Let's start with the sections. Vote for Budgets of Section 01: Parliament of Galicia, of Section 02: Council of Auditors and of Section 03: Council of Culture Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 58; abstentions, 14. The voting is positive. The budgets of these sections are therefore approved.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-22-DSPG135.u86	We then vote on section 04: Presidency of the Galician Union. Vote on Amendments Nos 306 and 314 to 317 of the G.P. from the Galego Nationalist Block to the budget of section 04: Presidency of the Galician Union. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 31; votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected. Vote for Amendments Nos 1 to 11 of the G.P. of the Alternative Galician Left to the budget of section 04: Presidency of the Galician Union. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected. Vote for Amendments Nos 1 to 22 of the G.P. of the Galician Socialists to the budget of section 04: Presidency of the Galician Union. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected. Vote for the budget of section 04: Presidency of the Council of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 41; votes against, 32. The voting is positive. The budget under section 04 is therefore approved: Presidency of the Galician Union.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-22-DSPG135.u87	We voted in favour of section 05: Vice-Presidentship and Council of the Presidency, Public Administrations and Justice. Vote for Amendments Nos 325 to 343 of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block to the budget of section 05: Vice-Presidentship and Chairlorship, Public Administration and Justice. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected. Amendment Nos 18 to 26 and 29 to 44 G.P. of the Alternative Glaga de Left to the budget of section 05: Vice-Presidentship and Chairlorship, Public Administrations and Justice. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected. Vote on Amendments Nos 70 to 94 of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia to budget section 05: Vice-Presidentship and Chairlorship, Public Administrations and Justice. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 31; votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected. Vote for the budget of section 05: Vice-Presidentship and Chairlorship, Public Administration and Justice. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 41; votes against, 32. The voting is positive. As a result, the budget of section 05 is approved: Vice-Presidentship and Council of the Presidency, Public Administrations and Justice.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-22-DSPG135.u88	Vote of section 06: Business Council. I, if you want, vote on all the amendments, except for what I'm told separately... No, it's just how we have to vote each and every one. [[Murmurs.]] So, section 06, Conseilerie d'Ovenda. Vote for Amendments Nos 452 and 453 of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, of Amendment No. 45 of the G.P. of the Gaga de Left Alternative and the amendment number 95 of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia to the budget of section 06: Conseilería de Fatenda. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected. Vote for the budget of section 06: Business Council. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 41; votes against, 32. The voting is positive. The budget under section 06 is therefore approved.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-22-DSPG135.u89	Section 07: Environment and Planning Council of the Territory. Vote for Amendments Nos 1 to 24 G.P. Galego Nationalist Block, 46 to 54 G.P. Gaga de Left alternative and 96 to 120 G.P. of the Galician Socialists to the budget of section 07: Environmental Advice and Planning of the Territory. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 31; votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected. Vote for the budget of section 07: Environmental and Planning Council of the Territory. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 41; votes against, 32. The voting is positive. As a result, the budget of section 07 is approved: the Territorial Environment and Planning Council.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-22-DSPG135.u90	Section 08: Infrastructure and Living Council. [[Mr. Jorquera Caselas asks for the floor.]] Excuse me? Yes, Mr. Jorquera? [[Pause.]] Yes, give a voice to Mr. Jorquera's chair, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-22-DSPG135.u91	Yes, Madam President, it is to request a separate vote on the amendments to the BNG 28 and 30, concerning the creation in Galicia of a railway body for the management of proximity services.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-22-DSPG135.u92	Well, there are only amendments to the Galician Nationalist Block. Vote for Amendments Nos 28 and 30 of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block to Budget Section 08: Infrastructure and Living Council. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected. Voting of amendments to the BNG, except for number 28 and number 30, to the budget of section 08: Infrastructure and Living Council. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected. Vote for the budget of section 08: Infrastructure and Living Council. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 41; votes against, 32. The voting is positive. The budget of Section 08 is therefore approved: Infrastructure and Living Council.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-22-DSPG135.u93	Section 09: Economic, Employment and Industry. [[Mr. Jorquera Caselas asks for the floor.]] Mr. Jorquera, tell me. [[Pause.]] Give a voice to Mr. Jorquera's chair.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-22-DSPG135.u94	It is of all the members of this House plenary and it is to request the separate vote of 296 BNG on measures to combat energy poverty.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-22-DSPG135.u95	Well, then, if you think so, we voted for Amendment No. 296 from the BNG. Vote of Amendment No 296 to the G.P. of the Nationalist Block Galego to the budget of section 09: Counselloría de Economía, Employo e Industria. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. This amendment is therefore rejected. Voting G.P. amendments. of the Galego Nationalist Block, except 296, of Amendments Nos 65 to 79 of the G.P. of the Gaga de Left Alternative and Amendments Nos 253 to 262 and 307 to 323 of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia to budget section 09: Economics, Employment and Industry. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected. Vote for the budget of section 09: Economic, Employment and Industry Council. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 41; votes against, 32. The voting is positive. As a result, the budget of section 09 is approved: Economic, Employment and Industry Council.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-22-DSPG135.u96	Section 10: Council of Culture, Education and Universitary ordination. Vote for Amendments Nos 97 to 190 of the G.P. Galego Nationalist Block, 80 to 83 G.P. of the Gaga de Left Alternative and 324 to 410 of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia to the budget of section 10: Council of Culture, Education and Universitary ordination. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected. Vote of the budget of section 10: Counsellor for Culture, Education and Universitary ordination. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 41; votes against, 32. The voting is positive. As a result, the budget of section 10: Council of Culture, Education and Universitary Order is approved.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-22-DSPG135.u97	We voted for the budgets of section 11: Health Counsellor. [[Mr. Jorquera Caselas asks for the floor.]] Yes, Mr. Jorquera? [[Pause.]] Give a voice to Mr. Jorquera's chair.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-22-DSPG135.u98	Yes, Madam President. To request a separate vote on the amendment to the BNG 387 on the rescue of the Álvaro Cunqueiro Hospital.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-22-DSPG135.u99	Well, we voted separately on Amendment No 387 of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block of Wales. Vote of Amendment No 387 to the G.P. from the Nationalist Block to the budget of section 11: Health Counsellor. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. This amendment is therefore rejected. Voting G.P. amendments. of the Galego Nationalist Block, except 387, and of the amendments 411 to 416 G.P. of the Galician Socialists to the budget of section 11: Health Counsellor. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected. Vote for the budget of section 11: Health Counsellor. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 41; votes against, 32. The voting is positive. The budget under section 11: Health Counsellor is therefore approved.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-22-DSPG135.u100	We voted for the budgets under section 12: Counsellor for Social Policy. [[Mr. Jorquera Caselas asks for the floor.]] Mr. Jorquera?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-22-DSPG135.u101	To request a separate vote from the 346 BNG, which provides a social emergency plan and fights poverty. Vote of Amendment No 346 to the G.P. from the Nationalist Block to the budget of section 12: Counsellor for Social Policy. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. This amendment is therefore rejected. Voting G.P. amendments. of the Galego Nationalist Block, except 346, of Amendments Nos 94 and 98 to G.P. of the Gaga de Left Alternative and Amendments Nos 485 to 487 of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia to the budget of section 12: Counsellor for Social Policy. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected. Vote for the budget of Section 12: Counsellor for Social Policy. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 41; votes against, 32. The voting is positive. The budget under section 12 is therefore approved.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-22-DSPG135.u102	We moved on to the votes of section 13: Rural Media Council. Amendment Nos 191, 192, 194 to 208, 212 and 215 to 224 G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, Amendments 99 to 109 of the G.P. of the Gaga de Left Alternative and Amendments 488 to 506 of the G.P. of the Galician Socialists to the budget of section 13: Rural Media Council. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected. Vote for the budget of Section 13: Rural Middle East Council. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 41; votes against, 32. The voting is positive. The budget of section 13 is therefore approved.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-22-DSPG135.u103	We voted for section 14: Counsellor of the Sea. Vote for Amendments Nos 225 to 264 of the G.P. Galego Nationalist Block, 110 to 118 G.P. Gaga de Left alternative and 507 to 521 G.P. of the Galician Socialists to the budget of section 14: Counsellor of the Sea. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected. Vote of the budget for section 14: Counsellor of the Sea. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 41; votes against, 32. The voting is positive. Consequently, the budget of Section 14: Counsellor of the Sea is approved.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-22-DSPG135.u104	Mr. Jorquera, section 20 and 21 can we vote together? We had 20, 21 and 22, and Mr. Jorquera asked me for 20 and 21 together and 22 separate. Each one separately? Then it must be three o'clock. Vote for the budget of section 20: Galician Advisory Council. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 58; abstentions, 15. The voting is positive. Consequently, the budget is approved section 20: Galician Advisory Council. Vote for the budget of section 21: Transfers to local corporations. The voting resulted in the following: votes in favour, 42; votes against, 17 with 13 abstentions. The voting is positive. As a result, the budget under section 21: Transfers to local corporations is approved. Vote for the budget of Section 22: Public debt of the Autonomous Community. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 41; votes against, 32. The voting is positive. The budget under section 22: Public debt of the Autonomous Community is therefore approved.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-22-DSPG135.u105	We turn to section 23: Costs of various councils. Vote for Amendments Nos 271 and 457 of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, 119 of the G.P. the Gaga de Left alternative and the G.P. 614 and 615. from Galician Socialists to section 23: Costs of various councils. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected. Vote of the budget of section 23: Costs of various councils. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 41; votes against, 32. The voting is positive. As a result, the budget of section 23: Expenditures from various councils is approved.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-22-DSPG135.u106	We vote on the budgets of the instrumental public bodies. We started with the following autonomous agencies: Galaga School of Public Administration, Galaga Academy of Public Safety, Galego Institute of Statistics and the Territory's Institute of Studies. Vote of the budgets of the Galega School of Public Administration, the Gallega Academy of Public Safety, the Galego Institute of Statistics and the Institute of Studies of the Territory. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 41; votes against, 32. The voting is positive. The budgets of these autonomous bodies are therefore approved.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-22-DSPG135.u107	We passed to the Galego Institute of Vivenda and Solo. Amendment Nos 32, 35, 44, 50, 51, 55, 57, 58, 62, 72, 73 and 96 G.P. from the Galego Nationalist Block to the budget of the Galego Institute of Vivenda e Solo. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected. Vote on Amendments Nos 221 to 252 of the G.P. from Galician Socialists to the budget of the Galego Institute of Vivenda e Solo. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 31; votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected. Vote of the budget of the Galego de Vivenda e Solo Institute. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 41; votes against, 32. The voting is positive. The budget for this body is therefore approved.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-22-DSPG135.u108	We moved on to the Galego Health Service. [[Mr. Jorquera Caselas asks for the word.]] Yes, tell me, Mr. Jorquera, which do we vote separately?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-22-DSPG135.u109	A 390 to consider the inclusion of the vaccine against meningitis B in the Sergas vaccination calendar.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-22-DSPG135.u110	First of all, we are voting on Amendment No 390 from the BNG Parliamentary Group. Vote of Amendment No 390 to the G.P. from the Galego Nationalist Block to the budget of the Galego Health Service. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. This amendment is therefore rejected. Voting G.P. amendments. of the Galego Nationalist Block, except 390, of Amendments Nos 84 to 93 of the G.P. Gaga de Left alternative and 417 to 484 G.P. from Galician Socialists to the budget of the Galego Health Service. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected. Vote for the budget of the Galego Health Service. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 41; votes against, 32. The voting is positive. This budget is therefore approved. Vote of the budgets of the Galego Institute of Consumption and Competition, the Galego Institute of Occupational Safety and Health and the Galego Fund for Agricultural Guarantee. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 41; votes against, 32. The voting is positive. The budgets of these autonomous bodies are therefore approved.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-22-DSPG135.u111	We shall proceed to the vote on the budgets of the public bodies that are instrumental in consulting or consulting. Vote for the budgets of the Galician Economic and Social Council and the Galego Labour Relations Council. The voting resulted in the following: votes in favour, 41; votes against, 24 with abstentions, 7. The voting is positive. The budgets of these councils are therefore approved.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-22-DSPG135.u112	We vote on budgets for autonomous public agencies. Vote for Amendments Nos 307 to 313 of the G.P. of the Nationalist Block Galego, 27 and 28 of the G.P. Gaga de Left Alternative and 23 to 32 G.P. of the Galician Socialists to the budget of the Agency for the Modernization of Technology of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected. Vote of the Agency's budget for the Modernization of Galician Technology. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 41; votes against, 32. The voting is positive. The budget for this agency is therefore approved.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-22-DSPG135.u113	We moved on to the Galician Tourism Agency. Vote for Amendments Nos 318 to 324 of the G.P. Galego Nationalist Block, 12 to 17 G.P. Gaga de Left Alternative and 33 to 69 G.P. of the Galician Socialists to the budget of the Galician Tourism Agency. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected. Vote for the budget of the Galician Tourism Agency. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 41; votes against, 32. The voting is positive. The budget for this agency is therefore approved.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-22-DSPG135.u114	For the vote on the budget of the Galaga Infrastructure Agency, the Socialist Group asked me to vote separately from Amendments 58, 59 and 60 of the AGE Parliamentary Group. We therefore vote on Amendments Nos 58, 59 and 60 of the AGE. Vote for Amendments 58, 59 and 60 G.P. from the Glaga Alternative to the budget of the Glaga Infrastructure Agency. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 9; votes against, 57; abstentions, 6. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected. Voting G.P. amendments. of the Alternative Glaga de Left, except 58, 59 and 60, of the amendments of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block and the G.P. of the Galician Socialists to the budget of the Galician Infrastructure Agency. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected. Vote for the budget of the Agency Gallega de Infrastructuras. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 41; votes against, 31. The voting is positive. The budget of the Gallega Infrastructure Agency is therefore approved. Vote of Amendments Nos 293 to 295, 301 and 304 G.P. from the Nationalist Block Galego and from 275 to 283 G.P. of the Galician Socialists to the budget of the Instituto Energético de Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected. Vote of the budget of the Instituto Energético de Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 41; votes against, 31. The voting is positive. Consequently, the budget of the Instituto Energético de Galicia is approved. Voting Amendments Nos 290 to 292, 296 to 300 and 305 from G.P. of the Nationalist Block Galego and 263 to 274, 305 and 306 of the G.P. of the Galician Socialists to the budget of the Galego Institute of Economic Promotion. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected. Vote for the budget of the Galego Institute for Economic Promotion. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 41; votes against, 32. The voting is positive. The budget of this institute is therefore approved. Vote of Amendment No 302 to the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block and the Amendments Nos 284 to 304 of the G.P. from Galician Socialists to the budget of the Galician Innovation Agency. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected. Vote for the budget of the Galician Innovation Agency. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 41; votes against, 32. The voting is positive. The budget for this agency is therefore approved. Amendment 193, 209 to 211, 213 and 214 G.P. from the Galician Nationalist Block to the Galician Rural Development Agency. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected. Vote for the budget of the Galician Rural Development Agency. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 41; votes against, 32. The voting is positive. The budget for this agency is therefore approved. Vote of the Budgets of the Galician Emergency Agency, the Information Centre for Economic and Financial Tax Management (CIXTEC), the Galician Tax Agency, the Galician Agency for Cultural Industries, the Galician Agency for Social Services, the Galician Agency for the Management of Health Knowledge, the Galician Agency for Blood, Organs and Fabrics, the Galician Food Quality Institute and the Galician Marine Environment Control Institute. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 41; votes against, 32. The voting is positive. The budgets of these agencies are therefore approved.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-22-DSPG135.u115	We vote on the budgets of the public corporate entities. Amendment No 1 to the G.P. of the Galician Nationalist Block and the amendments 524 to 587 G.P. of Galician Socialists to the Budget of Galician Waters The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected. Vote for the Galician Water Budget. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 41; votes against, 31. The voting is positive. As a result, the budget of the Galician Waters is approved. Vote on Amendments Nos 522 and 523 of the G.P. from Galician Socialists to the budget of Galician Ports. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected. Voted for the budget of Ports de Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 41; votes against, 32. The voting is positive. As a result, the budget of Portos de Galicia is approved.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-22-DSPG135.u116	We vote on the budgets of the autonomic consortia. Vote on Amendments Nos 588 to 613 of the G.P. of the Galician Socialists to the budget of the Galego Consortium of Services of Equality and Welfare. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected. Vote of the budget of the Galego Consortium for Services of Equality and Welfare. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 41; votes against, 31. The voting is positive. The budget for this consortium is therefore approved. Vote of the budgets of the Agency for the Protection of Urban Legality, the Consortium for Universitary Extension and Environmental Disclosure of Galicia, the Consortium for the Management and Exploitation of the Basic Water Supply Network to the Councils of Cervo and Burela, the Consorcio Casco Vello de Vigo, the Consortium Agency for the Quality of the University System of Galicia and the Consortium of University Libraries of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 41; votes against, 30. The voting is positive. The budgets of these autonomic consortia are therefore approved.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-22-DSPG135.u117	Voting of autonomous public commercial companies. Amendment No 1 to the G.P. from the Galego Nationalist Block to the Galician Soil Management Budget, Xestur, S.A. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. This amendment is therefore rejected. Vote for the Galician Soil Management Budget, Xestur, S.A. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 41; votes against, 32. The voting is positive. Consequently, the budget for Management of the Soil of Galicia, Xestur, S.A. is approved. Vote of the budgets of the Corporation of Radio and Television of Galicia S.A., of Telecommunications Networks Galicia S.A. Retegal, of the Society of Management of the Xacobeo Plan, of the Public Investment Society of Galicia S.A., of the Society of Environment Galicia Sogama S.A., of XES Galicia S.A., of Sodiga Galicia, of Galicia Quality, of the Technology Park of Galicia, of Galaria, Public Health Services Company S.A., of the Public Service Agency Galegos, Seaga, and of Genetics Fontao S.A. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 41; votes against, 32. The voting is positive. The budgets of these companies are therefore approved.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-22-DSPG135.u118	Voting of autonomous public foundations. Vote of the budgets of the Galego Sport Foundation, Galicia Foundation Europe, Green Week Foundation of Galicia, Fundación Centro Galego de Artesanía e Deseño, Fondación Centro Tecnologico de Supercomputación de Galicia, Fondación Exposiones e Congresos A Estrada, Fondación Feiras e Expositions de Lugo, Fondación Feiras e Expositions de Ourense, Instituto Feiral da Coruña, Fundación Galego de Formatación para la Trabalo, Fundación Agência Energética Provincial da Coruña, Fundación Publica Cidade da Cultura de Galicia, Fondación Rof Codina, Fundación Pública Camilo José Cela, Fundación Instituto Galego de Ophtalmología, Fundación Público de Sanitaria de Galicia 061, Institutación Galego de Medicina Xenómómico, Fundación Nacional para Tutela de Persoas Adultas Fundación, Fundación Centro Tección Tecnico da Carne d Centro Tecnólólólólógico da Centro Tecnico da Carne d Tecógico da Tecógico do Mar. The voting was as follows: votes in favour,41; votes against, 32. The voting is positive. The budgets of these foundations are therefore approved.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-22-DSPG135.u119	We then vote on the articulated text of the dictate, and we start with the amendments to the articulated. Vote for Amendments Nos 1 to 34 of the G.P. Galego Nationalist Block, 1 to 30 G.P. Gaga de Left Alternative and 1 to 47 G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia to the articulation of the Ditame issued by Commission 3rd, Economics and Budgets, on the draft general budget law of the Autonomous Community of Galicia for 2016. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected. Voting of the articulated text of the Ditame issued by Commission 3rd, Economics and Budgets, on the draft general budget law of the Autonomous Community of Galicia for the year 2016. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 40; votes against, 32. The voting is positive. It is therefore approved or issued.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-22-DSPG135.u120	It is therefore approved the General Budget Act of the Autonomous Community of Galicia for the year 2016. [[Applause]] The agenda is run out, the session is up. Good night, thank you very much.
