ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-14-DSPG124.u1	They're taking over, please, the seats we're going to start at the session. Good morning. The session is open. The agenda is published in the Official Gazette of the Parliament of Galicia, so it is not read. No inassistances have been justified. Before the next item is the inclusion of a preliminary point of promise or a new Member's oath in this House. Provision of promise or oath of acceptance and fidelity to the Constitution and the Statute of autonomy of Galicia by a new Member.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-14-DSPG124.u2	In accordance with Article 7 of the Rules of Procedure, the new Member, Mr César Manuel Fernández Gil, has applied for the promise or oath to abide by the Constitution and the Statute of Self-Government. According to the procedure, the formula is to answer "yes, I swear" or "yes, I promise" to the question of this presidency. I'm asking you to answer the question I'm going to ask you. Don César Manuel Fernández Gil, do you swear or promise to abide by the Constitution and the Statute of Self-Government?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-14-DSPG124.u3	Yes, I promise.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-14-DSPG124.u4	The promise is given, the full condition of the Galician Parliament, and we welcome you. Thank you very much. [[Murmurs.]] Please be quiet, please. We therefore enter the session, which, as you all know, consists of a single point. Annual general policy debate. Mr President-in-Office of the Council of Galicia to inform and discuss the political situation of the Autonomous Community of Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-14-DSPG124.u5	You have the floor, for your first intervention, the President of the Galician Council, Mr. Alberto Núñez Feijóo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-14-DSPG124.u6	Madam President of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Joint Group, ladies and gentlemen of the Galego Nationalist Bloc, of the Alternative Glaga de Left, of the Socialist Party (PSdeG) and of the People's Party of Galicia, assistants in the gallery who honor us with their presence, the Greeks and the Greeks who will follow us through the media, what begins today is my last debate on the state of autonomy as president of the Union in this IX legislate, but not the last one we have all the Greeks and the Greeks ahead. The life of our country will continue because the country is alive and will remain alive after this Parliament dissolves next year and ends the current democratic mandate. It's that Galicia, the Galicia that transcends elections and leaders, that always summons us. It is that Galicia, that country that is easy to love, that which I have the honour to serve, as President Albor has defined, that which I quote us here today in this debate and in this context. That's why I present myself to you today and to all the Greeks with a view to this Galician, to Galician future, and I ask you all to keep it in mind in the analyses and proposals that we are going to hold these days. I don't introduce myself here, and I hope you don't either, to limit us to a mere balance, because that's what citizens will do when this legislation is completely completed and they examine the work of the Government and the opposition they've commissioned us to do. I don't introduce myself here, and I hope neither as a candidate for anything, but as a servant of all the Greeks; as a server of today's Greeks and as a server of the Greeks to-morrow. We can all tell them now that Galicia has a future, and it has a true future. In it, of course, there are still problems to deal with, demands to give answers and challenges to continue fighting for. But towards him we lead ourselves free from uncertainties other times, other peoples or other governments. Released, I say, from the insecurity that conditions us not so many years ago when we didn't know the dimension or the limits of the crisis, that Galicia, like the set of Spain, is beginning to leave behind. Released from the instability generated by those who think that the strength of a community is measured by identity tension, where it really lies in the unity of citizenship, with which Galicia itself counts. And freed from the inconsistencies of other governments that focus their efforts on superfluous gestures and not on a deep management, which is what Galicia needs, what Galicia deserves what Galicia claims. Because, ladies and gentlemen, there are no infallible rulers nor in possession of irrefutable truths, who think otherwise makes the most serious mistake in any public representative, which is to stop listening to citizens to listen only to themselves. Galicia is the owner of its future and that's why I try to keep track of what Galicia says. And it's in the inconformity of the Galicians and the Greeks where I find the impulse to continue working for them, where I find the motivation to make every decision. Because Galicia is stable but not immobile. I don't recognize my people in a Galician that suffers from the resignation of the problems, nor in a Galician that is blinded by foreign models. Galicia has given me the honour of being president in 2009 and 2012 is a modern Galicia, with a transcendent presence in Spain and Europe and who wants to play its own role at every moment. Ladies and gentlemen, the Greeks we represent are concerned about real issues, they demand legitimate solutions and ask for real answers. They conform to a mature people, aware of the reality of every moment – also of this – and they need an administration and parliament that acts with their own clarity. I think the German Government gave real answers when the citizens demanded us to face the economic recession with determination and without hesitation. Responses that avoided the problems arising from the public deficit that other communities suffered, because we were able to reduce it year by year. Responses to control public debt, answers that have made it possible to maintain, and even improve, essential public services, to those we now allocate 8 out of every 10 euros of the budget of the Greeks. Or answers that have shielded our self-government, instead of losing it subjecting us to funding, dependence and monitoring of the central government, as has happened and continues to occur in other communities. I think the German Government also gave real answers when citizens asked to trace a path that made it possible among all to reach the beginning of recovery. There's still another difficult way forward, but that principle we've reached. With the recovery of employment uninterruptedly in the last twenty-three months, with the recovery of the economy, which has already accumulated seven quarters growing, with the recovery of consumption – in which we have spent the year, the sales index of the trade by often grew by 3.3% –, with the recovery of faith in ourselves and in our possibilities for the future, the Government of Greece has given real answers up to now and proposes to continue giving real answers in the new context towards which Galicia is heading. Because if our land is constantly renewed, we must renew ourselves with it, with new policies, with new teams that meet people's new demands and aspirations. [[Applause]] Listening to the Greeks is a preceptive and binding exercise for any government. The Board has done this and is doing it, and undertakes to continue to do it in this way to make changes, improvements and also, with self-criticism, the corrections which with the utmost intention of interpreting his will, the citizen is asking us at every moment. That commitment has its most recent reflection on the renewal of the Autonomic Executive, which has materialized last week and which was precisely conceived by an economic and social situation that is also changing. In fact, the new structure seeks to respond to popular feeling; the feeling that the effects of recovery reach all citizens, an objective that focuses exclusively on all the resources of the new Social Policy Council; the feeling that we can continue to talk about job creation, and therefore the labour competences are transferred to the area that must dynamize the economy; the feeling that primary sectors can be strengthened with a Rural Medium Council and a Sea Council that focuses all their efforts on each area; and the feeling of protecting our own, which is that social impulse and economic impulse is also complemented by territorial impulse, so the area of Environment and Territory is strengthened on the one hand, and the area of Infrastructure and Living on the other. But, ladies and gentlemen, I have already said that none of these objectives begins or ends in the remodeling of the Government, however important this is to achieve it. As will also be the 2016 budgets that we will approve next Monday and that - before them - will have a significant increase in resources for the current exercise. The biggest budget increase since 2008, consistent with the best situation we've ever seen. It is true that we face the immediate future with a renewed government and a reinforced budget, but we cannot forget that the path that builds a prosperous Galicia begins in the work done since 2009 thanks to the collaboration and effort of many Greeks and Greeks. And it will end when the citizens' set sit down in it. Ladies and gentlemen, Galicia has anticipated the fight against the crisis, and Galicia is also going to look forward to taking advantage of the beginning of recovery. If the scenario that opens with economic improvement allows us to be more flexible, it's not for us to change from top to bottom what we've done over the last few years, but for us to use, more intensively but with the same responsibility, the new means we count on by focusing on the correct ones not to repeat in the future the mistakes of the past. The first of the priorities is that the current growth scenario is perceived by all citizens, that no one is excluded. Because if the fight against the crisis was possible between all the Greeks and the Greeks, the recovery must also be addressed to all of them. [[Applause]] The goal hasn't changed because our reason for being and working is the same as in recent years, it's people. What has changed is not the way or the end of the path, what has changed is that we have all been able to go through the hardest piece of the road together. It would be impossible to have come here without a people who, from their everyday lives, perceived above the words that denied reality, had pointed to the right path before their own rulers, and who had endeavoured to step by step over those years. Today that people demand with all logic and legitimacy that they are not left behind in this new stage. The Galician Union will be next to it. All this time, each member of this government put the maximum of himself to accompany the Greeks and the Greeks in that effort and that this was not in vain, and of course it was not. It was our responsibility to do so, and we should also do it with responsibility. That led us to be on many occasions bearers of bad news, but we understand that our obligation was neither to hide what we had before nor to generate false expectations, to generate false expectations for a citizen whose sacrifice had already been wasted and to whom it should never have been lied to. All the rulers of the last few years wanted to have done even more, but all governments, in every exercise, were still missing. Surely the appearance that took place in May 2010 at the Congress of Deputies by the President at that time is the best example of the budgetary constraint that affected all administrations, both the state and the autonomous and local. It was the last to realize, or rather the last to recognize. Suffocated by the daily problems resulting from the crisis, we were immersed in the difficulty of managing the greatest shortage. I personally feel every citizen who thinks we didn't help him when he needed us or who thinks we weren't close to him with the intensity he claimed. Regardless of the fact that, as I said at the beginning of this intervention, there are no infallible rulers and that we make mistakes for which we must apologize and correct ourselves, it is true that on many occasions we had to say that we were not consciously more than we wanted; also sometimes without the explanation that was required, which is inexcusable. But we said no because we were committed to telling the truth to the Greeks, for whatever reason it was. It is a commitment of responsibility to all of them above the sensibilities that it has assumed. We have seen ourselves – against our wish – forced by the situation to say many times that not so that today we can say yes, in order to tell the Greeks that the priorities of the Union, as long as our answers were not always those that they wanted to say or hear, were always the same: the Greeks and the Greeks. And to be able to tell you now that what has changed is our expectations and, along with them, our budgetary capacities to begin to satisfy them. Ladies and gentlemen, in 2009 in this Parliament we talked repeatedly about how we were going to deal with the hole of more than EUR 2,300 million that we were forced to return to the Central Government. In the following years, about how we adapt to a budget context always down. We have to manage up to 2,200 million euros less than the government that preceded us. The difference with this moment is therefore obvious: today we are talking about how to direct the 400 million euros more than we have available for next 2016. Well, Galicia doesn't need us to address these resources to an effort to achieve the targets of the deficit; no, it doesn't, because we're going to meet this year with 0.7% of the deficit marked, as we've always accomplished all the years and how we're going to meet again in 2016. Galicia doesn't need us to direct those resources to repair an excess of public debt because we are the second autonomy where the public debt has increased the least since 2009. Galicia does not need to face an increase in financial expenditure because in recent years we did not have to go to the cash fund set in motion for communities that could not be self-financed and because now this year we have taken the decision to access the Financial Facility Fund with more beneficial conditions – zero type for three years for debt, and to see the annuality of the negative liquidations offset without being subject to any protection by the State –. Ladies and gentlemen, Galicia does not need to draw bills from the drawers because we have counted them and paid them within a period of less than 20 days – more than 25 days below the average of the rest of the autonomous communities – and Galicia does not need to compensate for the absence of European funds because we have managed to remain a priority region in the Community budgets and have reached more than EUR 4 billion of European funds by 2020. And Galicia doesn't need to run new resources without criteria either, because we're setting priorities in the Strategic Plan of our economy 2015-2020, and we're doing it through a dialogue work with citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, none of this is necessary because, although we have not always been able to make ourselves understand, the responsibility with which we act has avoided it. It is the fruit of that policy responsible for which I can announce today that the budget increase in 2016 is going to be intended exclusively to allow the Greeks and the Greeks to receive recovery directly in their homes, and seeking to do so fairly. It will be intended primarily for the support of the people who need it; it will be for the workers and families who have worked hard to support the Greeks and the Greeks who don't need us; it will be for Galicia to be the most caring place for the children's and children's needs; it will be for the greatest tax discount that ever adopted by the German Fair in a single budget. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, that's our commitment, and that's what we're going to do. The recovery of public accounts is intended for the recovery of citizens and, logically, for the most vulnerable. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, commitment to people who have the most difficulties is always a mandate of the Greeks. It is enough to recall the contribution of our emigrants and the support that we now give them to many of them, the example of citizens in situations such as the railway accident in Santiago, the data of prayers and the citizen behaviour every time since the Public Health Service calls for their collaboration or the response of the Greeks to humanitarian needs such as those of the Syrian refugees, who are facing together with the rest of Spain and the rest of Europe. There are enough samples to be able to say that Galicia is a people committed to the people who need it most. This pattern of commitment to the most vulnerable also has its reflection in the Government in legislation such as the Act of Inclusion and in measures of all kinds, in the general increase in stakes in this area – today almost 18% more than the budget of last year and will continue to grow in the budget of 2016 – but also in concrete terms in support of social initiative entities, which account for 80% more of the resources than at the beginning of the legislation; in the increase in the departure for Risk, 130% more than in 2009; in social emergency aid, which is now almost 50% more than in 2009; in the maintenance of non-contributory pensions, which are offered only three autonomous communities in Spain; or in the support received by university students who, because of survival or unforeseen causes, have difficulties in continuing their studies. These are all measures that together make of this that we live the moment of greater social commitment by an autonomous government, but that, far from finishing now that there is an economic improvement, we're going to reinforce, because, ladies and gentlemen, we know that the crisis we have in recent years still has very hard consequences for many people. Some have wanted to cover up the crisis, and we won't be blinded by the reality of recovery. We know that the recovery we've begun to see is not yet seen in many homes, and therefore we know that we have to follow those people who are still trapped in unemployment or who, having employment, also have very severe deficiencies, and even more so when they have fewer than to take care of. [[Applause]] This conviction that we have to help them, ladies and gentlemen, not to adorn them with words, as seems to be the trend lately, but rather to translate into facts. To that end, in June we approved the Plan of Combating Economic Inequity, which we must continue to develop and expand. An important part of the measures have been designed over the past few months, but one must be vigilant, first, to ensure that they reach all and each of the families who need them and, second, to expand them in each and every one of the areas in which they need them. One of the priority action programmes is what it has to do with minors, and in this sense we have the agreement that we have to bring to families who need food for minors on school holidays, or from this course we also have EUR 50 per student for school material, in addition to those that have come to exist for the purchase of textbooks. Or we have recently promoted a pioneering programme of fighting poverty for under 18 years of age. Defeats resulting from lack of income are another particularly sensitive area, first by trying to prevent evictions from occurring, and so we expand the benefits in programs Reconduce and Realoxa to families and people at risk of death due to lack of rent payment. We achieve that different financial institutions commit themselves and that in such cases families can preferably remain in the housing, as well as make our provision for empty housing. We start the procedures to create a property census to offer when the eviction has to be made effective, and we approve the social rent bonus, with help of 150 euros a month. Finally, we take the necessary steps to clear the risk of leaving a homeless Greek family for economic reasons. These two areas, the attention to minors and the guarantee of housing, are probably the most important for their impact, but they're not the only ones. [[Applause]] Our will is, as far as we are able, to detect them all. Every decision must be made with the commitment that when a Welshman has acute problems, we can give him appropriate answers. In this commitment it is to Junta, there are many social initiative entities, those we work with, and they do an extraordinary job, and we want them to be municipalities and deputies as well. So in the coming weeks, we will call the local authorities to a meeting to draw up a coordinated protocol and to ensure that the new measures, such as putting in place a program to prevent the default cuts to the most vulnerable Greek families, assuming the cost of two monthly tariffs; continue to speed up the processing of the Risk to ensure the beneficiaries that once their file is in the Galician Union the waiting list is practically zero; also, facilitate the greater autonomy of those who have difficulties, making the mobility support material that they need for the first time through a public service, for example walkers, wheelchairs or co-joint beds; and likewise, that low-wage families also receive benefits from drug spending equivalent to that which they already recognize the law for unemployed without benefits or for those who perceive the Risga. [[Applause]] Addressing the most urgent problems of people in situations of social exclusion is an inescapable obligation, no doubt, but it is not the ultimate solution to the problem, not much less. The best form of inclusion is employment. There's no doubt that at this point the situation is better than last year and it's better than when we start legislation. The drop in unemployment is not an isolated fact, it's a consolidated trend for 23 consecutive months. Today there are 22,466 unemployed less than a year ago and 63,050 unemployed less than when the legislation began. Social Security membership isn't an isolated fact either, it's a tendency that's beginning to consolidate in the last eighteen months. Today there are about 21,000 more people on a daily basis in Galicia than there was last year on this date. That affiliation climb is beginning to be noticed among the younger ones as well. The number of affiliates under the age of 30 has increased by 7% in the past year, more than double that in the average of Spain. All of them are hopeful but insufficient data. Insufficient for the 215,737 people who remain unemployed; insufficient for unemployed and long-term unemployed; insufficient for citizens who want to consolidate their small business or undertake an activity as a way out of work but who still feel a lot of difficulty in doing so. They are insufficient for all of them, and therefore they are insufficient for us. Ladies and gentlemen, in order for a recovery for all of us to be really effective, we must continue to fake the collectives that are most difficult to join. First of all, I would like to refer to the young people and the long-term unemployed, two groups who have suffered and suffer the harsh effects of the crisis and which is why we concentrate much of our efforts. In both cases I thank the social agents who agreed with us on the initiatives and measures to do so. For the young, we assure you that we will continue the Youth Employment Plan, whose lines of action benefited 48,000 young people in 2014, in which, by the way, Galicia became the community where unemployment among under 30 years of age was lowest. [[Applause]] The unemployment in this collective remains, however, unbearable, and that is why we have the decision to deepen the processes of personalized care, which guide young people to the best way out of work. To encourage and expand dual training, thus opening up new opportunities for access to the labour market. Continue with the program in incentives for young people's recruitment, whose aid amounts to between 7,000 and 8,200 euros in each case. Or continue to subsidize for a year the membership of social security for those under 30 who are established as self-employed. We will also expand next year the plan in force for long-term unemployed and with family burdens. Even though this situation came out in the last year, a total of 8,400 people, it continues to be necessary for us to work for those who still work in it. They will therefore continue to be a priority group of cooperation programmes with non-profit entities, or the training offer being developed in the course of this initiative will be strengthened. Ladies and gentlemen, there are Germans working or looking for him who – as you can see – are more vulnerable. But there are also employers who need special attention on our part. I'm thinking of autonomous, pemes, traders, cooperatives, who carried on their shoulders an important weight of the crisis and those we must also give the protagonists they deserve in recovery. We have, over the last few years, put all kinds of facilities at their disposal. For example, since 2013 we have extended aid to the second and third workers for indefinite recruitment by self-employed people. Of the 3,000 assets, loans and direct aids we have granted in this legislation, 99% of the 3,000 assets went to the small and medium-sized company. In the last year alone, we support more than 1,100 projects; that is, three projects every day. We included in the Entrepreneurship Act a total of five tax deductions that undermined economic activity. Also in the wake of this regulation, we simplify the possibility of opening a business. The general deletion of the previous licence is undoubtedly an exponent of this decision. We have planned to reduce the minimum capital to 300 euros to create a new cooperative, which is one of the newest aspects of the Social Economy Bill that we will refer to the House. Or we have already launched the Training Programme, aimed at improving the training and training of 10,000 entrepreneurs, reaching 4,000 companies. Finally, economic facilities and administrative facilities in which we will continue to deepen what remains of legislation, with a basic qualitative leap that allows us the new context and that we have decided to take advantage of the recent renewal of the Government. Linking labour policy to economic and industrial promotion is an opportunity for us to continue to talk more and more about employment and less about unemployment. That's our ambition, and with that objective we will continue to work. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, we can mark the goal of an inclusive recovery for all because we seek it among all, fighting together in the crisis so that no one is excluded. The Greeks supported each other so we could get here. Many Greeks and Greeks had to adjust their arrival at the end of the month so that others could have some prospect of starting it. On this line, this government had to take difficult measures and also postpone others. Now that we're in a context of improvement, it's good to remember that the sacrifices of many workers have prevented further worsening. In some cases we've already started to take it into account, and so it will continue to be in all of them as the economic improvement continues to allow it. So in the case of public employees, we started to apply in the last job offers an increase of 50% of the replacement rate for public services, which the State included at Galicia's request. In addition, this month of October we will make effective the return of another 25% of the extra payment for 2012, which adds to the 25% already paid, and to what will follow the remaining 50%, which will become effective in 2016. I also suggest that we approach with the Sectoral Bureau a mechanism to make transfer contests more agile, simpler and more periodically. The laborer's effort not only served the whole of Galician people, it not only served to clear the common future, but also serves to keep us in condition today that they can benefit more directly from it, and with them people, who care about us. [[Applause]] The effort of the Galician families is not in vain. He hasn't been through this crisis and can't be through his life. It's time to collect the fruit. That's why I want to announce to you that in the 2016 budgets we will realize the biggest tax drop, consistent with the fiscal policy we defend and in coherence with the tax policy that the Greeks deserve after these years. In this regard, they know that during the crisis we have kept different selective reductions in emissions that we consider strategic: demography, innovation, renewable energies, rural, housing or the transport sector, which has been exempt since 1 January – as you know – from the special tax on hydrocarbons. Ladies and gentlemen, almost 190 million euros of tax exemptions from 2009 to 2015. It's an important amount and in important areas, but we've always had the aspiration to complete it until we reach a fairer fiscal policy for all taxpayers, and now we can start satisfying it. So, in 2016, in addition to sinking into sectoral tax reductions, which I will refer to later in my speech, we will announce to you that we will reduce the income tax of physical persons to the taxpayers of Greece, so that Galicia will be located among the communities with lower tax of Spanish autonomic income for middle and low income. Similarly, 99% of the Greeks will not pay inheritance tax or donation tax when they inherit as children, as parents, as grandparents, as grandchildren or spouses, and the remaining 1% will pay less. That's right, ladies and gentlemen, because in inheritances of this kind the first 400,000 euros will be exempt from this tax, and it will only be taxed from this figure; that is, 99% of the Greeks will not pay the inheritance tax or the donation tax. [[Applause]] Finally, an unprecedented drop of taxes, for the benefit of all the Greeks, which would not be possible without an unprecedented effort of all the Greeks. Of the public workers, to whom we rightly intend now to correspond. From the Government, achieving more resources in the wake of the fight against tax fraud, which, for example, in 2014 allowed 181 million euros more, 20 per cent more than in the previous year. And, above all, of the whole of the Greek families, who were in the crisis that marked our priorities and who will now, in the recovery, be the ones who will continue to do so. [[Applause]] Because, ladies and gentlemen, this government is trying to match its priorities with those of the people who have the honour to represent. That's why our priority is employment, so our priority is that Galicians and Greeks can reach the end of the month, and that's why the priority of our social policy is people, and children and children first. Nothing is more important for a mother or father than her children; it must also be for this government. Mothers and parents worry about their children being born, and they work every day to provide them with the best they can. We want to contribute to that by reducing the tax of successions and prayers, but also by putting our efforts to leave to those who must happen to us in better conditions than we inherit. Mothers and parents worry about their future, but before they spend all their time – at work and at home – in order to give their children the best of their childhood, and we want to be next to them in the greatest responsibility of their lives. We must do this because it is supposed to secure the future of the country. Because as a government, we must fight against a structural problem that came from decades ago, such as the demographic crisis. But above all, we must do it because government policies have to be with their citizens where they care the most. We have the ambition that Galicia is among the places with the greatest public health and social care for children, and not only in Spain, but also to be able to equate ourselves with the advanced places in Europe. That's one of the main objectives I've marked for the new social policy and health advisers, and they're addressing together. Not only do we want greater benefits in Galicia to bring forth children, but we want these Welsh people who are born to have the greatest benefits to develop. Make this country a better place to have children, but above all, the best place to be a child or a child. That's our goal, ladies and gentlemen, an ambitious goal, as well as the determination that our land has a future. [[Applause]] An ambitious goal, although not a new goal. We want to redouble efforts in supporting children in coherence with the different decisions we have been making over the years. Thus, in the health issue Galicia began infant antipneumococcal vaccination, which finally extended to the rest of Spain. We defended vaccination against varicella before the age of three, and the ministry agreed to include it in the national calendar. [[Murmurs.]] The new vaccine against meningococcal B can already be acquired in pharmacies, as this autonomous community has insisted; and we will always have a child's vaccination schedule as much as legal and budgetary possibilities. To this we add concrete health plans such as the prevention of childhood obesity, which we have been developing since March 2014; and the testing of newborns, which is the most complete of all Spain. In the social environment, Galicia is already, with the development of the demographic plan, the community with more support for birth. So, the Greek mothers and parents don't have to pay for day care from their second child, and many others don't have to pay anything if their economic conditions don't allow them. We have more than 20,500 squares of child schools supported by public funds, so that today they offer coverage to 1 out of 3 children, fulfilling for the first time Galicia the ratio recommended by the European Union. They have new conciliation methods, such as rural children's homes, or child care services. They deduce from their income statement – in the case of lower income – 360 euros for the first child, 1,200 euros per second, and 2,400 per third. They're given priority when they ask for help in renting or acquiring a home when they're going to be parents, even before their son or daughter is born. In the case of many Welsh families, they have additional bonuses, for example, at the price of metropolitan transport. And we will continue to take action on this line. So we'll continue to bet on the board for the flexibility of work, which already benefits more than 7,700 public employees. We want the Administration to be the first to set an example of the reconciliation of family and work life, which should also be transferred to private companies. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And we should make a joint proposal on the current working hours. In addition, in line with the most advanced countries in support of children, first of all, we will expand the nursery bond, so that all parents and mothers who want to take their children to a child's school, and don't have a place in a Union nursery, receive help. Secondly, we will create the right caretaker in rural areas. I mean, we're going to support families too in those cases where there's no children's school where they can leave their children. [[Murmurs.]] Thirdly, in addition to promoting reconciliation, we also want to contribute to dealing with the basic costs of the birth of a child: food, clothing, change, medicines. And we'll do it with direct tips of 100 euros a month for every child born on January 1st. They will, of course, be established on the basis of family income per capita, so that this 100-monthly aid can reach about 80% of the Greek families. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, when in my speech as chairman of a debate on the state of autonomy I have devoted much of my time to dealing with this matter, much of the opposition has tried to ridicule him with topics I do not share. Today the demographic crisis in Galicia is something that we are all aware of and that we are already concerned about. Well, in the same way as we all must be aware of the importance of this structural problem, we are aware that no woman or man will have children for patriotism, thinking about the future of the country, or because their public representatives have it among their goals. But, yes, all those women and men who decide to take the step of having them, if they can be sure that, if there is a government that can support them and, above all else, their children, it will be this government. [[Applause]] The demographic crisis comes from far behind, and it's a goal that we won't achieve in the short term. With time we'll compare in statistics if we achieve it, but what we'll be able to compare in the short term is that the children are supported here more than ever before, and we'll put everything on our side, more than anywhere else. Because, ladies and gentlemen, the recovery process would be incomplete and therefore useless if it were not accompanied by the necessary changes to adapt to Galicia of the future and therefore also to public services of the future, to the territory of the future and to the economy of the future. Ladies and gentlemen, today we have good public services. They often question themselves, and often with a cruelty that they don't deserve or the professionals who defend them every day with their work or the citizens who support them with their taxes. That's why I would like to share with you the three reasons why we can repeat, how many times we want, this statement: we have good public services. The first one I've mentioned. The professionalism of thousands of people working in public education, public health and public social services is their primary guarantee. The second reason is what we've achieved among all of us in recent years. Today we can say that we have been able to ensure the viability of the welfare state to, in this way, continue to improve social benefits and adapt them to the needs of the future. Here's the third reason. If you can say that we have good public services, it's also because we are aware – I am, of course, sound, like most Greeks – that they are neither perfect nor immutable. The same way that the Greeks don't want to have the same education, the same health and the same social services ten years ago, we can't conform, and we don't have to work for education, health and public services that there will be in one, two or three decades. What I propose, therefore, is to adapt us, as the whole of the Greeks do, and to jointly design the roadmap that ensures our public services for the future. Perhaps some of you think that narrowing ties between the Government and the opposition is not fashionable. On the other hand, I think the breaker, the truly breaker, would be that we left this Chamber today with the commitment to draw together something that matters to citizens, and the future of public services would undoubtedly be a good start. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, the experience of recent years shows that there is scope to continue to make public services more efficient without affecting the benefits that citizens receive. Starting, of course, from the administration's day to day, where the search for inefficiencies is already a consolidated behaviour in an endless list of measures that I think we should thank the crisis and which, of course, we must always continue. But also in the functioning of the public services themselves, decisions were made in this direction. The increase in the consumption of generic drugs – from 10% in 2009 to more than 43% today – is the centralized purchase of medicines – with only EUR 43 million in this amount – or the launch of the Sergas Logistics Platform is some of the most exponents in this sense. The exercise of greater efficiency we have done so with remarkable intensity in recent years, and my commitment is to continue it whenever possible, because the viability of public services is, both in times of crisis and times of kindness, the first key to being able to talk about its continuity. Because that's the ultimate goal: to be able to get public education, public health and public social services to respond to citizens living in a world that is no longer the same as before. Ladies and gentlemen, in the wake of public education I think we have a great path in the triple objective of ensuring that your access is within the reach of all, that it is trilingual and that it looks at the future, using the tools of the future. That's how the PISA Report corroborates it, for which Galicia is the community with a more equitable education system, in front of almost all OECD countries. Also, it points out that the dropout rate today is 18.8%, the lowest in the historical series, below the national average, and seven points less than the dropout rate in 2009. What I propose is, therefore, to sink into a path that is proving to be useful. It is useful, first, to consolidate an educational model that does not exclude anyone; that guarantees help for textbooks – in the last course there were more than 90,000 benefited families – and for school material – that has reached more than 81,000 families; that guarantees access to the dining room – today there are 72,000 public places held by school eaters, 23% more than in 2009; that guarantees school transport, with more routes than anywhere else in Spain and at the disposal of more than 93,000 boys or girls; that guarantees the best infrastructures – since 2009 we have invested more than 74 million to suit half a hundred schools or institutes; that guarantees a higher offer in the case of vocational training, which today has 50 per cent more squares than in 2009, more than 100 cycles of new creation and new possibilities for distance vocational training. Or to guarantee, in the case of universities, the lowest rates in all Spain; a commitment I maintain and that I will not give up while I am president. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, we believe that public education must be universally accessible, but we also aspire to further modernization. That's why I'm telling you that we're ordering the advisor of this matter to draw up a plan that outlines the instruments and deadlines needed to meet the double ambition that we set ourselves up in 2009. On the one hand, the ambition that all German children receive their classes in English, Spanish and Spanish. Today, 90,000 boys – 4 out of 10 – already receive this trilingual education, and our vocation is to reach 100 percent and also start the studies needed to open this process with greater intensity in universities. On the other hand, the ambition of completely digitizing our schools. We count on this with the Abalar Program – which already benefits 52,000 students today – as well as the Digital Content Platform, which this year already allows free access to online curricular content to more than 6,000 boys or girls. Better access, more languages and more technology, these are the three feet that sustain the transformation that is in public education, in which – as I tell you – we want to deepen more intensely, and that we share with all the teachers who, day by day, give the best of themselves so that others can do the same in the future. Strengthen the work and authority of the teacher. This has been a concern in recent years, and it will continue to be, to maintain our community as the one that has most teachers as students throughout Spain; to continue to strengthen the autonomy of the centres through program contracts; to give them more tools to ensure better cohabitation in the centres, as we have done through the Law of Cohabitation; or to allow them to devote their entire, or practical, time to teaching. And in that sense, we're telling you that we're going to promote the progressive creation of administrative assistant squares in the centers, starting with those who have more than 400 students in the first phase, thus meeting a demand for more than two decades of management teams. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, it is our duty to correspond to the great effort that teachers make at all levels of education, and allow me to make an express reference in this regard to the Greek university system, that is, to the Greek universities. Their responsibility is visible in many respects, both in simplifying the structure of the current university funding plan and in betting for results-based funding. Both criteria will again mark the economic proposal for the coming years we agreed with the Rectors, which will guarantee nearly 18% more resources by 2020, thereby ensuring their viability according to the economic improvement. I would like to express my thanks to the entire university community for the process of modernization and commitment. It was essential to attack him, but we did it, as if reflected in multiple examples. The adaptation of the titles to the new European framework, the adequacy of the master's offer to the current reality, or the recent agreement for the teaching of medicine are evidence that current university leaders are being consistent with what is expected of them right now. [[Applause]] This last, historic agreement closes seventeen years of debate and assumes the first stone of the health system we want to build towards the future. A health system in which retired professionals find continuity in the new generations. More than 4,700 places called in public job offers illustrate what we are moving on this path despite legal requirements. But also a health system with an organization and means that prepare it for the challenges ahead. Because, ladies and gentlemen, as in the rest of the public services, it would be a mistake to refuse to improve public health. Of course, Junta doesn't comply with the fact that almost eight out of ten Welsh people think our health system works well or quite well; more than 10 points above the state average. And it doesn't, among other reasons, because the last few years are proof that it can always be improved. Today the Greeks have more rights by law than they had before, such as the right to second medical opinion, the right to freedom of choice as a doctor or the right to hospital. Today there are 188,000 interventions per year in the Greek hospitals, 20,000 more operations in 2009; that is, more surgical interventions than ever in the history of Sergas. Today we have a higher surgical yield, which has already exceeded 75% and has risen to a one-point rate every year since 2009. Today patients with very severe pathologies wait less than 17 days on average for an operation; less than 51 patients with severe pathologies, and the average overall waiting time has been reduced by 19 days in the last six years. Today, as I promised last year in this same debate, 5 out of every 10 Greeks have a new public hospital or health center or reformed in their health area; and in 2016 this figure will rise to 7 out of every 10 Greeks; that is, 70% of the population of Galicia. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Any of these examples show that the public health we found in 2009 had room for improvement and improvement. In the same way, today we assume that there is still a margin and that we must continue to work. In this sense, we announce that before the end of the year, we will present the Strategy of the Galician Health Service towards 2020, with the main challenges that the Government of Greece will face together with the more than 36,000 professionals working in health care in the 14 public hospital complexes, the 480 health centers and the 90 continuing care points with Sergas, and which could be summarized in three commitments. [[Murmurs.]] First of all, the challenge of completing the modernization of the infrastructures, which is advanced at a very high percentage, but which has to close to 100 percent. In that case, before the end of the year, we will begin the proceedings to approve the Plan Director of the Public Hospital in Ferrol, beginning in 2016 its comprehensive reform, beginning with the hospitalization plants. [[Applause]] We'll complete the work of the new surgical block at the Coruña public hospital.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-14-DSPG124.u7	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-14-DSPG124.u8	We will complete the expansion of the public hospital in Ourense and the public hospital in Salnés, and we will begin the work of the extension of the public hospital in the Navy. And that's all we'll do as we did to equip and put into service the new public hospital in Lugo, which, by the way, before the end of this 2015 will already have available the radiotherapy and nuclear medicine equipment. And all this, ladies and gentlemen, we will do as we have built, opening a new public hospital in Vigo, the main health infrastructure made in Spain in recent years. [[Applause]] [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-14-DSPG124.u9	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-14-DSPG124.u10	Ladies and gentlemen, to deny the new public hospital in Vigo, to deny that it has a surface area three times that of the old hospital, to deny that it has more and better radio diagnostic units, to deny that it has more advanced technology or to deny that it has 70% of the rooms with individual beds, for example, is not to defend public health honestly. [[Murmurs.]] That doesn't mean that you can see that every transfer has any disturbances, any disturbances that we have to see...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-14-DSPG124.u11	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-14-DSPG124.u12	...and that not everything was right in this process. And that's why I do it, with all humility, of what could be improved and that we will improve, but also with all the pride of being able to say that in full crisis we were able to make a public hospital in the Vigo area that was not done during all the economic kindness. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, the second major challenge of health is to continue the incorporation of new technologies, which are transforming, and are called upon to do so, from the management of our public health to the training of our professionals and the way they relate to citizens, who are the users of the system. Today Galicia is already a reference in this sense, clinical history or electronic recipe are already a reality for 100 percent of the Greeks. In addition, in 2015 we will complete the major innovative projects that are being promoted in the framework of Hospital 2050 and innova Saúde, which together account for an investment of 100 million euros. It is precisely the technology that is one of the pillars of the third health challenge for the coming years; in my opinion, of the most important. I mean the need to move forward to seek solutions to future illnesses and future healthcare patients. Today's public health needs to be prepared to know in advance the risks to be faced today, but especially those to be faced tomorrow, and that's why a population stratification process has been carried out that has enabled each of the nearly two and a half million people over 14 years of age to identify their health status. Today's public health needs to be prepared for the diseases that are most common today but also for tomorrow's. And in this case, in addition to continuing to design specific actions for chronic patients – there are about 800,000 Greeks with chronic diseases today in Galicia – it is also moving forward to prevent the most common cancers, such as breast cancer, with a very consolidated program, or colon, whose early detection program we started in Ferrol and we will progressively extend to the Sergas set. Today's public health, ladies and gentlemen, you also have to prepare yourself for a quality service today but also tomorrow. And in this sense, our commitment is to continue to seek alternatives to strengthen the resolution capacity of primary care, which today carries out 1.4 million more care consultations every year, and to open more intensively the hospital to home care, which has grown by 32% since 2009; and, since it is increasingly being demanded by the Greeks, we must be able to respond to it. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, this latter objective requires a high degree of coordination with the public social services system, as it is largely due to the ageing of the population. And at this point too, there are already important steps. In this sense, before the end of this 2015, the single social history will enter into force, which will integrate all the social information of the Greeks and which implies the pre-implementation step towards the future socio-health history; undoubtedly, one before and after one in attention, especially our biggest ones. This is, of course, one of the most important projects we have in the field of social services, but without forgetting the impulse given in other aspects that we are going to continue: to continue opening public squares of residences for day centres and for people with Alzheimer's or disability, which we have already increased by 27% since 2009; to continue to sink into more flexible care, as the social services portfolio guarantees when setting up resources separately instead of doing so by centre; to strengthen aid for people with disabilities, as we have done by approving a specific law for this collective, or by a new adapted transport model that has doubled the number of users; or to continue to improve the care of dependents, which we are now the second community in services for this collective and we are going to follow; and next year we will include 10,000 new dependents in the system. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, the bets on the public services that we've shown during the crisis and that we're keeping now that recovery begins is the flag that makes me proud when I get out of Galicia. When that happens I feel a voice from a land that wants to be a historical nationality, yes, but above all a country of the future and with the future. And not because it conforms with brass, but because it's willing to continue strengthening bonds instead of breaking them to be stronger. This tendency to tend bridges proceeds outwards, as I will then try to make manifest, but also inwards. And our duty as Government is to contribute to that since all the issues in which it is possible to make a more vertebrate Galicia and thus more united. One of these areas is what it has to do with technologies, probably one of the most attention and resources you've received from Joine in recent years. Its importance is unquestionable to all of us, and I welcome that this Parliament has also put it in relief when it has passed the Telecommunications Act, which obliges us to take into account the extension of technology in each project. But beyond the legal consideration we give him, the fundamental thing is to continue to guarantee his access to all the Greeks. Today 786,000 Greek citizens who had no internet option in 2009 are connected to the broadband. It is an undeniable achievement, but it must continue, aware that not only can it be measured in quantity, but it must be measured in the quality of access. With this in mind, the 2020 Longband Plan is approved, through which we have made two fundamental commitments with the Greeks. The first is the broadband coverage of at least 30 megas for the entire population; and above the 100 megas for the cores of more than 500 inhabitants, or, what is the same, for 60% of the Greeks. Ladies and gentlemen, the technological vertebration must continue to be completed by ensuring road and rail infrastructures. In this latter area, the Greeks have enjoyed the advantages of the AVE of the Atlantic axis since April, which despite the crisis, we have been able to complete. And in the same way, the works advance so that the VA to the Meseta is a reality in time and form. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like you together to value the progress of the AVE, and to continue together to face all those who don't want for our land what they've been enjoying for decades. As far as the roads are concerned, we have a commitment that at the end of this legislation the high-capacity network is 66% more kilometres than it was in 2009. In 2016, 4 out of every 5 Greeks will meet within 15 minutes of a high-capacity track. That will be possible because this is also a priority goal that we set ourselves for what remains of legislation, and for what, in fact, strengthened Infrastructure Council will have almost 8% more resources than last year. I think, in this sense, this year's service of the Sarria-Monforte corridor, the highway of the Costa da Morte, which advances towards its service in the summer of 2016, as well as the highway of Morrazo, whose works will begin this month of October, are the most important events, together with the development by the Central Government of the expansion of the motorway of the Atlantic, the steps that are missing from the highway between Lugo and Santiago and the Pontevedra, which begins; in addition to the motorway of the Cantabrian, which has ended. With regard to mobility, I would also like to refer to an area of particular importance, which I believe has three outstanding developments in the coming years. I'm talking about transport. So, I think it is essential that we be able to complete the start of metropolitan transport in the area where it is still pending and in the municipalities that could join it. We therefore have the reference of 65 municipalities that already enjoy the corresponding bonuses, between 30% and 70% of the ticket bonus, and which allowed an average increase of 20% of public transport in the areas in which it is operating. Equally, fee bonus plays an important role in improving mobility, a path in which we have decided to focus on autonomous highways. In fact, the motorways of Val Minor and Coruña-Arteixo are the cheapest in Spain. And this government was the first to set up bonuses for frequent users. But, no doubt, intermodality is the most important change to which we have to respond immediately in our opinion. Thus, the combined train-bus ticket protocol, already signed, will allow you to reach one of the air terminals from any part of Galicia by using the train or bus with a single ticket and with transhipments and coordinated schedules. We must therefore that both the Union and the Central Government and the municipalities also maintain our commitments to the intermodal stations, the railway-bus stations. Of course, Junta will meet the deadlines in each case, as I hope we all meet, at the intermodal stations of Vigo, the Coruña, Santiago and Ourense. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, all forms of intervention on the territory must be taken into account in view of the fact that this common heritage is precisely our main asset, and they must therefore take care of the need to protect and preserve it. Fortunately, today we agree that investing in environmental protection is also investing in the future, and precisely with this idea we have been strengthening the environmental department with three objectives that I would like to move them. First of all, with the task of completing the wager made in recent years by hydraulic infrastructures, more than EUR 1 billion invested since 2009. More than 1 billion that made it possible to make remarkable progress in the sanitation of Galician waters. We've built 35 debuggers serving 1.2 million galleys. Only in this year 2015 are 45 other acts of supply, sanitation and purification, and we remain equally committed to the sanitation of rivers. Not in vain, through an investment of more than 460 million euros and according to the administrations we built the infrastructure needed to clean up the river Ferrol, the river of Vigo, the river of Arousa and Burgo, and with an immediate character also those that are needed in the case of the river of Pontevedra; the greatest impulse ever given in Galicia to the healing of the rivers, because never before had it been given, in addition to with so many words, with so many resources. [[Applause]] Secondly, waste management is the second priority area of the Environment Council. There is no doubt that, as a country, we are making significant progress in this area. Today 124,000 tonnes are eliminated in landfill less than in 2011. But this is a merit for all, we must continue to have new tools to improve waste management, both today and in the future. And in this sense we were able to complete the seal of uncontrolled dumps, a milestone that we achieved last year 2014. We continue with the creation of clean points, which in 2015 will be at the disposal of nearly 9 out of 10 municipalities. And, above all, we act on the central axis, which is the Sogama plant, which uses 295 municipalities, to be prepared for current and future needs. So, in addition to the bid this summer of the new plant, with an investment of more than 30 million euros, we will announce that next year we will also address the construction of a composting plant in the facilities of the Areosa dump. [[Applause]] But the vital care work of our territory cannot be left to the detriment of the will of every government. That's why we consider it necessary to shield Galicia's sustainable development through a policy framework that constitutes the third axis to which I wanted to refer. Ladies and gentlemen, after providing us with new tools to achieve it, such as the wind canon or the mining canon; after putting in place the first Land Management Guidelines and the first Plan of the Galician coast; after jointly giving a boost to the urban management of our municipalities – since 2009 the population that lives in a municipality with a generally approved plan has doubled – then we are all now faced with the opportunity to make the final step towards responsible urbanism that makes it possible to continue living from the resources that this country offers, without hypothetical its environmental values for future generations. That's why it's the Galician Land Law Project, a government goal that seeks the triple objective of territorial management, rural development and effective protection of the landscape. This legal text, which is already the property of this House, is the result of the consensus of broad public participation, in which more than 75 social agents were consulted and 80% of the allegations received were accepted. These are figures that prove that we aspire to a law of the land of country, capable of enduring in time. And that is why I sincerely hope that this effort of consensus and inclusion will find its echo in the seats of this Parliament so that the structural importance of this rule will be more than any reason for political opportunity and we can all debate and agree on the best law possible for Galicia. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you to collaborate on this point because I sincerely believe that in the management we do in the process of approval and development of the Land Law is the key to another great challenge we have as a country. Vertebrating our territory, protecting it, is in both useless cases if we accept as something normal that 93% of that territory sees itself as secondary to our social and economic interests. I'm obviously talking to you about our rural environment. Ladies and gentlemen, the advisor to this matter said in his recent seizure of possession something very true, that surely all of us here share: the Greeks love rural. We love rural not only because Galicia has grown great from it, not only because our land cannot be understood without the culture, customs and economy of the rural world, we love it also because we know that in it lies one of our main strengths as a country also towards the future. Rethinking rural is a long-standing task, which we have been dealing with since the Government in recent years, but which needs to be completed from a double perspective: rural has a problem of abandonment and rural has a problem of aging. The last few years have been especially productive to provide us with a normative body indicated to our present and future interests, that both at European level, with the new common agricultural policy, which has favored Galicia in very important aspects, such as the autonomous level, especially through the Law on Improvement of Galicia's agricultural territorial structure – which, together with the laws on land and mountain mobility, driven by the past legislation – will help to improve the territorial base of exploitation and thus enhance its competitiveness. Similarly, the last few years have also made it clear that the economic use of our rural areas is not an illusion. There's evidence that it's also a prosperous road that starts in rural areas. Let me give you some examples: dairy production has grown by 14% between 2010 and 2015; average farm production has grown by 23% between 2009 and 2015; beef production by Terreira Galicia has risen by 21.5% since 2009; the combined invoicing by the timber industry has grown by 4.5% in 2014 and has reached the best figure since 2008; the value of eco-production has doubled since 2009; and the exports of our wines have grown by more than six points in the last four years. But, ladies and gentlemen, in the same way that we are aware of the strengths and potentials we have in rural areas, we also have to be of their weaknesses. Getting them to break the first ones and amortizing the second ones is the main challenge we have. And we have three instruments for this: on the one hand, the 2014-2020 Rural Development Programme, which means an increase of 1,185 million euros that will reach our farm through different performances. On the other hand, the effective commitment of the entire Government to strengthen the commitment to the marketing and processing of agricultural products, which is a consolidated trend in this legislation – today there are 40% more resources for this purpose – and which, of course, we must continue. And thirdly – and what I think is most important – the commitment to realise in next year's 2016 budgets a zero-tax programme in rural areas; a zero-tax programme in rural areas in all those taxes that are within the competence of the Union. Thus, those which were already in force – exemptions – are added: that no transmission of farms in rustic soil will pay taxes on heritage transmissions; that it will also cease to tax the transmission or expansion of agricultural holdings and that groups of rustic farms will also not pay the tax on documented legal acts. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would like the Germans – and especially the young ones – to see in this reinforced rural bet a demonstration that there is not an ancient way of life in it, but real options for the future. Its incorporation may be very useful to deepen the diversification of rural areas, which is one of our priority objectives, but without forgetting the basic primary sectors, to which I allow myself to refer briefly. First of all, the dairy sector, to which we are going to continue to give special importance. We will continue to be close to the dairy sector when decisions do not depend on us directly, as we have been in the negotiations to reach a pioneering agreement between producers, industry and distribution, for which compliance is already ahead of us that we will always be vigilant. For now, what we can see is that the effects of this agreement are already visible on the line of supermarkets and – the most important – in the new contracts that producers are negotiating. But we've also been, we're and we'll be with concrete decisions from the board. Thus, our commitment will continue to be palpable in all kinds of measures: in the short term, with the expectation of injecting 80 million euros, 10 million to facilitate loans to farm owners, as well as in anticipation of 70 million CAP aid before the end of the year; in the medium term, continuing the commitment decided by the Greek milk, promoting – in any way possible – the Gaga brand 100%, and in the long term, promoting greater industrialization of the dairy sector, so that – in the near future – we will make available 30 million euros. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, improving profitability is also a priority in the forest sector, convinced that getting the most out of our mountains is a source of wealth in itself, but also the best tool for preventing fires. In this sense, our commitment is, in the context of the review of the Galician Forest Plan that is in progress and that we plan to close in 2016, to continue supporting the landowners – in the last four years we have devoted to this end EUR 30 million –, to continue to accompany companies in the sector, knowing that 70% of them are in cores of less than 5,000 inhabitants, and to continue to bet on by the groups of landowners for the joint management of the mountains: the forecast is that within a year there have been around 25 groups of forest owners. To talk about the primary sector is also to talk about fishing, a sector in which we have also made important efforts, both in Galicia and at European level. Among the most important achievements, it is necessary to underline the increase, in the period 2012-2014, of 30% of the quota we fish and 55% of its value. In the same sense, the outcome of the negotiation of the European Maritime and Fisheries Fund, which led us to move forward in the percentage distribution in the Spanish context, from 44% in the period 2007-2014 to 51% in the period 2014-2020, will allow us to have nearly 500 million euros to invest and support the fisheries sector. This previous job now allows you to address key tasks in this sector in this year in a quadruple line: In fishing, with the launch of the artisanal fishing development plan and improving the costs of ships by replacing the current fuel with gas. In shellfishing, progressing in the conversion to a fully professionalized activity and in strengthening an aquatic farming component that allows to go beyond what the sea produces by itself. In aquaculture, with the arrivals of greater legal security and agility in the processing of new projects thanks to the new Aquaculture Law, pioneer in the European Union, and with the visa and pleasure of unanimously yesterday in Brussels. In the transformation and marketing process, with the strengthening of guidelines for the conservation industry thanks to the new Strategic Conservation Plan, which will address from the conditions of access to raw materials to the reinforcement of competitiveness or the use of new technologies. But in the same way as in rural, also on the coast, on the coast, we must continue to seek new forms of diversification. Following the rossil of the 427 projects developed in this period and the mandate dictated last year in this process, in this Parliament, the Coastal Action Groups will have around EUR 60 million to continue working on that line. So we count for the future of the sea on the course of the master lines. We count on budget propulsion and regulations. Now we have the absolute disposition of a counselor who once again has full dedication to this area. And that's why I'm sure at the end of this sync, we'll get to the right port. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, resistance to the difficulties of recent years is not something that should be attributed in this debate to primary sectors exclusively, or possibly with the greatest intensity. Noting that we have been able to overcome the challenges of the crisis is a statement that can be made extensible to most of our productive sectors. I'm not here to say that the last few years have had a neutral impact on them. I hope you're not either to claim that our strategic areas fade, because that's already denied by the facts. And we must recognize it, in my opinion, to keep moving forward. Ladies and gentlemen, among all of us, we are being able to recover industrial production; in the course of the year it has grown by 3.8%, above the national average. We recognize among all that tourism is achieving a historic year, with more travellers and pilgrims than ever before, and leading statistics of growth across the state. We all recognize that the technology sector has been able to consolidate employment in this painful crisis, with more than 15,000 workers working on it since 2010. We all recognize that the textile industry, especially affected by the crisis, is recovering the production rates, which grew by 17% in the year. We recognize among all that the wind sector continues its journey through the approved competition to the past legislation. 85% of the expected megawatts continue ahead and, in fact, parks are already authorised which together account for an investment of about EUR 400 million. We all recognize that we have achieved a future hope for the automotive sector, especially after – after negotiations in Paris less than a year ago – Citroën had helped Vigo's factory to produce new brand vehicles, which would be able to produce 2 million vehicles in the next ten years and investments of more than 500 million euros. Or we all recognize the merit that we've been here saying something that we've been unable to say for many years, that we've been here saying that Navantia's public yard is asking again and that, without being still in an optimal situation, there are good expectations that there will be further good news soon. And that we're here saying that, with orders worth 1,9 billion euros, the Greek shipyards now have workload. [[Applause]] [[Mrs. Díaz Pérez speaks words that are not perceived.]] I would like to make a special fincapé in this latter area, bearing in mind that the status of the naval – and concretely the certainty or not of a commitment by oil tanker Pemex to the construction of two fleets – was the subject of a long debate both within and outside this Parliament. That's why I want to tell you that they were actually right: there were two fleets, because now we know there are three. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, doing this exercise is not supposed to fall into any act of trivial triumphalism, that's just another time and another government. Nor should it be problematic for any party that wants to hold a responsible opposition. To say that in economics everything goes wrong is so useless to the country as to say that it's all right. I ask them to assume reality as it is, to hope but with realism, to continue to improve. The roadmap I propose has been drawn for a long time, and I hope to count on its approach so that we can develop and adapt to our context the four pillars that sustain it: First, I count on his collaboration to continue making Galicia an increasingly attractive territory to invest, which gives more facilities, so that the simplification of procedures and incentives that guarantee the Entrepreneurship Act – which I refer to before – will continue to support also the accelerators of companies, such as Open Future, Santiago, Via Galicia, in Via Galicia, in Vigo and Lugo, or Agrobiotech, in Ourense. We must continue to give more space to invest, and that's why we keep the bonuses of between 30% and 50% approved this year to buy business soil, which has already allowed us to sell nearly 340,000 square meters, figure that goes beyond the sales of the previous two years and is at the level of industrial soil sales of the year 2008. And we'll also continue with more funding lines. As far as this legislation is concerned, in the field of economic promotion, nearly 3,000 business projects have been approved, which have mobilized investments around EUR 400 million. This will remain a priority in what remains of mandate. Secondly, we will continue to sink into the Industrial Diversification Plan, which this Parliament made exactly one year ago. So, just as we approved the biomass boost strategy to open ourselves up to an area that offers the most economic possibilities, but also to build on the forest sector, just as we reinforced the commitment by gas investment – is approved the plan that will entail an investment of EUR 200 million up to 2020 to bring natural gas to 82% of the Greeks – just as we materialized the decisions that Galicia can aspire to be a technological pole in the aeronautical field, with an expected investment of EUR 45 million, we will announce that we will start the development of a biotechnology support strategy, with a priority line of action: a program for industry entrepreneurs to have support as much as they need, when they mature projects and create market assets, so that they are not as long and expensive as they are now. So it's about betting on a sector that has proven a lot of possibilities, but it's also about one that offers greater potential in the third pillar, so I suggest that you continue to bet on: the pier of innovation. We count on it with the university. Today we are directly supporting the work of nearly 400 researchers. The three public health research institutes are also available, which host 107 research groups with more than 1,100 researchers in the Galician Health Service. We reinforce the role of technological centres, directly through programme contracts and also through joint innovation units, created in strategic sectors of our economy. Public resources are also guaranteed. In the same way as in 2013 a third of the investment of the Economic Council has been devoted to innovation, this bet is also guaranteed in the future, although the Strategy of Smart Specialization is already approved, with Europe's visa and pleasure and with EUR 1,600 million up to 2020. In short, ladies and gentlemen, I think Galicia is in a good position to seek greater competitiveness in the new context through innovation. That's what we intend to do more intensively. First, continuing with the Opportunius programme, to be able to support us in the main value to innovate the talent of our best scientists; second, with a new program to facilitate the incorporation of 200 young people into innovation activities in companies; and third, by continuing the development of the Industry 4.0 model. Thus, the 2016 budgets will include a new help for innovation processes in this area that combines a well-lost grant with loans to facilitate the approximation of peas to the smart factory. Facilities, diversification, innovation and internationalisation, ladies and gentlemen. That last one is the fourth road that we have opened to strengthen our economy today, and also the one tomorrow. In this sense we have demonstrated why this bet, and that it is its proven utility in recent years. It is not in vain that the number of exporting Greek companies has grown by 28.5% since 2009, breaking the barrier of 6,000 exporting companies, as well as the volume of exports, which grew by 28%, reaching EUR 17,825 million in 2014, which is, together with 2013, a historic year in this sense. This trend continues to continue in 2015, which already accumulates 5% increase over the previous year. We have also made it clear that we continue to bet on internationalization, which is basically with more resources. So, the budget in this area today is 25% higher than the beginning of the legislation. We define why, with which, and also we have decided who we should continue to work with. And that's why the policies of internationalization of the Union will follow the hands of entrepreneurs in the first place, and also of the chambers of commerce and of the Greeks abroad. Precisely with this objective of coordination is the Internationalization Forum, with the main exporting companies in Greece, and we also count on the Pexga Network, which already attends any of the Greeks who want to invest in the markets in Mexico, the United States, Colombia, Brazil, Morocco, Russia, the United Kingdom and China. Towards the future, we announce that we are working on new destinations, and they will soon materialize with the opening of internationalization antennas in Dubai, Germany and Chile. Ladies and gentlemen, all sectors and indicators, with different intensity, believe that we are in a cycle change, that today we hold the last debate on the autonomy of this legislation, but also the first of a new stage of founded hopes. These years we've come to know our floor, and now we mustn't put on a roof. That's why there's still a lot to do in the front, a lot to get, a lot to get through, but what we still think is not so far short of what we think is unattainable. To deny that reality is the same as to reject the merit of the people for all that has reached so far. We'll be able to succeed more and also to be wrong, but there's no doubt that, if anything characterizes this government since it came badly to the hope that we're now recovering, it's because we believe in Galicia. We believe, gentlemen, that here we can make ships and automobiles so well or better than anywhere else. [[Applause]] We believe that this Galicia Quality that distinguishes our products in the world was more than a slogan, and that this could be reflected, for example, in exports. We think we had everything we needed to invest in our land time and money, and tourism data points out that more and more people want to know, come and repeat Galicia. We believe in creativity, talent and innovation to have our own space in the new time we're already in. We believe, ultimately, in our people. The good way of Galicia was no other all this time to follow the Greeks and the Greeks; follow them, and that this path was stable, with autonomous institutions at the service, instead of making them an internal battlefield between parties in the same government, or directly dethrone them. Follow them and don't interfere with them, and that's why the Administration's Modernization Plan continues on the path of achieving zero paperwork in its relationship with today's citizens, six out of every ten trials can already be done by telematics, and on that path we will continue to move forward to achieve totality. [[Murmurs.]] Follow them and be useful to them, with a more efficient government, capable of drawing more performance from public resources, capable of doing more with less. Follow them and give them the assurance that there is public health, public education and viable public social services that will be all this time at their disposal, and, after reaching the goal, also for generations to come. They follow them and feel supported by a justice that works with more human and technological means, as well as infrastructures, in Santiago, Ourense or Ferrol. Also in the Coruña, in the Tobacco Factory, and in Pontevedra. I hope that in Vigo, too, with the new City of Justice. Follow them and more intensively support those who have the greatest cost, with a social policy that allows us to stay behind, and that the children and the children of Greece go ahead. Follow them, put into value what Galicia is, what we do to the Galicians and the Greeks, and push their advance; and move forward. [[Applause]] As many as here have heard voices denying us the possibility of achieving the achievement, I am convinced that all of us who are part of this House share the same belief in Galicia and our people. All of us here occupy a seat for the democratic will of the Greeks and the Greeks. We have a duty to make ourselves worthy of Galicia's belief in each one of us here as well. A year ago I presented a programme of democratic impulses to fight against the discredit of its representatives, with a law that limited the funding of parties, with a law that allowed greater citizen participation, with a new law that broadened the powers of the Board of Auditors, with a law of transparency and good governance that was from Spain's most advanced and with a law of legal aid management. Ladies and gentlemen, four out of five laws are already in force or in this House; the fifth will be adopted at the next Council of the Union. Unfortunately, you've been removed, we don't count on your collaboration. But these laws will be good for everyone: for the citizens, because if they increase their participation, their transparency, restrictions on parties and controls on governments; for the Government, because they make it difficult for the personal interest to seize the effort that we dump for the general interest; and also good for you. All parties are exposed to doubts, or directly corrupt. Debug politics is a responsibility of all of us in politics. To get rid of that citizen concern and just move away from the fact that the evils of politics are only in the opponent is a bad thing that is done to politics. Let's make ourselves worthy of Galicia's belief in each one of us. It is logical and healthy that we disagree on various matters, but it is not understandable to anyone, nor much less healthy to our country, that everything – absolutely everything – is a cause of partisan cold. Does it really seem reasonable that there may be discussions between us about the concern that we all share against gender-based violence? [[Applause]] It's not, and the time we spend on it is time we've wasted on important. We must add, to the aid received by the victims – more than in Galicia than in any other community – and to the coordination of assistance between different administrations, a third party that I consider essential: to strengthen prevention especially among younger generations. Ladies and gentlemen, as a country, we can't assume the rebound of the machismo we're detecting among teenagers... so I'm afraid your arrivals for the development of a special equality plan in education. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Let's make ourselves worthy of Galicia's belief in each one of us, and we don't betray to this House any problems that don't exist outside of it. Citizens don't debate who owns the property of the language. No group or ideology will have to swallow that property. In the street there is linguistic understanding and cordiality. No citizen imposes himself on another by the language he chooses free. So we don't discuss whether one language should be imposed on another, and we analyze together how to make the most of the potentials that the language offers us. We can spend hours discussing what we all know, that Greek is useful, or we can try to get that utility perceived by the Greeks. I propose this second alternative: that language cease to be a political tool so that it may be a tool of progress, ladies and gentlemen, to make us progress inside... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-14-DSPG124.u13	Quiet, please. Quiet, please! I'm sorry, president.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-14-DSPG124.u14	...and for that we will design a plan of linguistic dynamization among the young. But also outside, following the path that has set us by law this Parliament. In that sense, we announce that we will put in place the mechanisms for Galicia to become part of the community of Lusophone-speaking countries. Because, ladies and gentlemen, it is opening up to us as best we defend our tongue, as the rest of the identity signs that give us meaning, that unite us as a people. Let's not treat our cultural wealth like a vestige of past times. Culture is also something of our time. Keep it, protect it, is, above all, make it present here and in the world. This objective is reflected in different regulations, such as the Cultural Heritage Act, which is being developed, or the Museum Law, which we will also push to make these spaces something alive and adapted to the public of our day. Also in specific actions, such as the recent declaration of cultural interest of the heritage of the old savings boxes – the first community in Spain that completed this process – and the start-up of the pontogal domain, an open window to show us in the world. Here's the way we're going to go, in my opinion. So, where others choose to assimilate and try to rewrite history, we defend normally, without confrontations and with pride what we are; which, without setting borders, makes us unique in Spain, without need of going against Spain. Because, ladies and gentlemen, Spain intends to attack is Spain of autonomy; the State to which it is challenged is the State of autonomy; the Constitution being questioned is the Constitution which guarantees autonomy. [[Murmurs.]] The intention is not to break a oppressive and centralist system that drowns territorial identities, but precisely a structure that guarantees and highlights the uniqueness of the peoples of Spain. [[Murmurs.]] This Parliament is born of a status of autonomy. That statute is founded on the free will of the people of Greece and in a constitution that establishes a territorial model vertebrated by autonomous communities. Today's Galicia is a result of an institutional architecture designed by historical political agreements and referendums by historical social agreements. It would be wrong and even dangerous to get rid of processes that undermine the institutional stability of which they are part. The German Government will always be at the front or side of those initiatives that improve the current system, beginning, of course, with self-financing. But with the same clarity you cannot accept privileges that would lead us back to that comparative distress that you wanted to restrict our Statute of autonomy. [[Applause]] If ‘daughter’ was that, ‘daughter’ would be this too. I want to say loudly that Galicia is not indebted to anyone, nor does it seem to be obliged to repay anyone for not knowing what it offends. That same firmness serves us not to incur the error and injustice of confusing a brother people with some of his leaders. [[Applause]] Catalonia is also a part of us, not only because our Alfredo Brañas is considered one of the parents of Catalan autonomy or because they were Catalan entrepreneurs who jumped through our industry or because the wealth of that community was cultivated by many Greeks, who are still there. Catalonia is part of us because we share culture, past and present; that's why we feel close to its citizenship and away from those who want to move away from it and from a common future. The celebration of this debate coincides precisely with the abrupt manifestation of the consequences it has for that sister community a kind of policy that responds more to the attempt to escape from reality than to the decision to confront it. [[Murmurs.]] History teaches the result of this kind of leadership. At best, it leads to the decadence of countries that remain ensembled in false myths. I don't want anything like that for Galicia. In this legislation my fundamental theme was to safeguard the essential element without which everything else lacks a basis of support. I mean social cohesion. We got her. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, we were not afraid to rule. We did not proclaim independence from Spain in which we felt free or from Europe that framed our development, but from fate that seemed to condemn us to be eternally victims of the crisis. We have been independent in these years of resignation, fatalism, defeatism. We didn't propose to our citizenry to be alone in the world, with destructive and fratricidal identities, but to work alongside the great democracies. There are many ways of being a German, and they all fit into that common project that is autonomy. Fortunately, we are not a single country, but a polyphonic country, and I am convinced that this is the key to Galicia overcoming the difficulties with sacrifices, but also with a success that it is worth noting on the already quantified palm trees of the Greek people. This cycle change that already questions only those who previously denied the crisis has a value that goes beyond the strictly economic one. It was the first time Galicia faced a similar situation with self-government tools. Well, we can say that the institutions that make up our autonomy were decisive to achieve an exit that consolidates every day. There was a Greek response to the crisis and that's why we are now moving towards a Greek recovery as well. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, all the Galicians and the Greeks are essential. There were no divisions between us or confrontations with the people, but we preferred to support each other. Galicia anticipated and was an example to follow for all, and it will be for the generations of Greeks and Greeks who come after us, for those who rebuilt the present, opened up the future and said goodbye to the past. Thank you for everything, Galicia. [[Applause]] Thank you for everything, Galicia, on behalf of those of us who are part of this Parliament and we have the privilege to be the representatives of a people who make history, for allowing me the honor of being president at the most difficult time and, also now, in the most exciting. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, there is no greater honor than serving Galicia; none. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-14-DSPG124.u15	Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Thank you very much, President. The session is suspended until 6:00 p.m., 4 p.m. Good morning.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-14-DSPG124.u16	They're taking their seats. [[Pause.]] We resume the session with the turn of parliamentary groups, starting with the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Iglesias Sueiro and Mr Martínez García.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-14-DSPG124.u17	Good afternoon, ladies. Good afternoon, President. The debate on general policy, which we know as a debate on the state of the nation or autonomy, is celebrated today in this Parliament Chamber of Galicia. A sterile and painful debate, preceded by a government crisis and held in a post- and pre-election period of great importance to the Government party, the People's Party. Actually, these upcoming elections are important for all parties, but especially for those who configure the system of bipartisanism, but that's another story. Mr. President at his exhibition, a clearly electoralist exhibition, made a balance of achievements and forecasts for the future, introduced us to a prosperous Galician, a Galician that comes out of the crisis, a Utopian country. But the data, ladies and gentlemen, show the reality: the data indicate that in September Galicia loses 5,724 members of Social Security – in the state as a whole, on the contrary, the count is 8,916 new contributors – and that only 106,539 stops – less than half of those registered last month – receive some benefit or subsidy. A reality that is the result of precarious work, part-time work, wages that name a new type of poverty: labour poverty. A reality that forces our new talents to emigrate in search of opportunities, because in Galicia it is not possible to articulate a project of a dignified future life. To say the opposite of what you know or think is pure cynicism. To proclaim as the Government's own what's nothing but party slogan is Ramplón, electoralist theater. Defending what you know will not be fulfilled is a vile deception. Cynicism, hypocrisy and lies are neither honest nor valid instruments for governance. Politics is the art of what is possible and to make possible what seems impossible, but not with deceitful and unpunished artimagins. Innocent behaviors and means corrupt the noblest goals, the most legitimate idealisms, and the most necessary desires of stability. Everything can defend itself in democracy, but with sincerity and honesty and never attributing the representation of all, when it only counts with one side, thus dividing a plural society. This contradicted the democratic principle of good faith and respect for the other person, which is the very foundation of coexistence. The official data and the degree of non-compliance with the resolutions adopted in the previous debate of the State of the Nation confirm that you, Mr. Alberto, practice a political cynicism of book. According to Sebastian Mora, secretary-general of Caritas, 4.8 percent of the population of Greece – i.e. some 132,000 Galicians and Greeks – lives below the threshold of severe exclusion. It also points out that we are not in a low-productive economic crisis or investment crisis but in a model society crisis. Do you have any proposals for that new model of society that we need? What kind of political project? A society without rights, impoverished, subjected, polished, unfair and unequal? According to Sebastian Mora to Pope Blessed XVI, who has assured that the deepest crisis is anthropological: "A society without values is a society without a future." And Sebastián Mora concludes that the social exclusion that affects tens of thousands of Greek homes did not occur with the recession but two thirds of the population of Greece were already in that situation because of the socio-economic model of recent decades. "The crisis that has done has been to sharpen the problem," he pointed out, and he insisted that "the current situation will not be solved only by economic and financial growth." Growth – the financial – that you refer cynically to as economic, labour, industrial and social when it speaks of economic recovery. Resolution 17 of the last debate of the nation's state, adopted by almost 71 votes to almost most, says: "The Galician Parliament urges the Galician Union to promote policies that promote the increase of the Greek wages, placing them at the state level and ensuring non-discrimination on the basis of women's wages." And at 36, it was adopted cynically by only 39 votes – probably those of the PP – with 25 abstentions, saying: "The Galician Parliament urges the Galician Council to continue, together with social and economic agents, promoting measures and incentives for employment, especially in those with more difficulties, by expanding the Youth Employment Plan with an economic injection of EUR 48 million and detailing a employment plan for unemployed people aged 45." Unfulfilled resolutions in a new exercise of political cynicism. According to EPA's latest survey, one in five people working in Galicia suffer from work poverty – 75% are women. The cause of this labour poverty is wage devaluation in labour market reform and the increase in part-time employment in that society project that presents us as idyllic and is justified by what they call crisis. A recent report by Labour Commissions, drawn up on the basis of EPA data, also concluded that one in five workers on an equal footing in Galicia suffer from work poverty, which is equivalent to 20 per cent of the total. The most affected workers -- 27% of these people have spent more than five years in that kind of job -- are women, women over 40, girls and boys, immigrants. The profile is completed with those and those who work as household employees, in the hostel, in commerce and in auxiliary services such as cleaning and surveillance, because they are 62% of the collective with lower wage levels. And speaking of women, Mr. Núñez, only women, women in particular, the data is even more alarming. The situation of the Greek women is characterized by the realization of most of the non-remunerative work and, in the issue of paid work, are mostly in the informal sector, also in the perception of lower wages and in more precarious conditions. Since last year, it has increased by 44.3% since 2014, the number of women who have been in demand for employment for more than two years since 2011, and are no longer entitled to benefit, with the aggravating that only 47.7% of all unemployed women receive a benefit, compared to 63% of men, and that 72.25% of part-time contracts are women. In view of this reality, and when you talk about economic growth, the exit from the crisis, the increase in employment, that this government works for social justice and that they care about the common, I can't help but remember Al Capone's statements collected in Liberty magazine in 1931, in which, in an exercise of unbearable cynicism, the famous mobster expresses: "Where does not obey the law, corruption is the only law. Corruption is threatening this country. Virtue, honor, and law flow from our lives." A very similar attitude to a politician who, aware of his impotence in the face of the neoliberal demands of the Troika and the market, promises solutions knowing that he will not meet them, as is happening with the general budget of the state, excuses found to dilate the parliamentary period and that they are but electoral propaganda and wet paper – told by Brussels – and that there will be reform, government and government next year. Mr. Feijóo, unemployment, labour poverty, exclusion, emigration... these are the results of your employment policies, Mr. Alberto. The German countryside is in a state of agony because you and your neoliberal policies for the elimination of services, rights and life forms of the rural population are deserting Galicia forest and demographically. The environment has for you the consideration of currency of exchange for the benefit of the great capital which allows to destroy enclaves, cultures and life forms, as is happening in the Courel. Rural development is seen by you as a residual aspect in the various laws that affect you – the Land Law, the Mining and Coastal Plan, the Nature Network. It privatizes the management of neighbouring mountains for the benefit of personal enterprises, promotes the implantation of fast-growing monocultures – by the way, the National Audience has just issued a sentence in which it supports the thesis of the environmental danger of the Eucalyptus nitens tree species, by its expansional capacity and affection for the natural environment and ecosystems, and it turns out that this is the variety that Junta recommends – energy crops, megaminary and the installation of enclave industries. They conceive rural you, gentlemen on the right, as a place of joy and leisure for social elites – golf, hunting grounds, residential areas, water centers, shopping malls... – and apply a common agricultural policy that destroys the family economies for the benefit of the multinationals, as could well be seen from the recent conflict of the cattle sector –don Alberto, don't trust you, keep up the fight, eh! – and the failure of your measures against the fires that ravage our land. The dismantling of prevention services and the progressive privatization of extinctions generate important volumes of money connected to the fire; it's called the economy of the fire and it's generated more than 100 million euros a year for profits from non-profit companies. That money invested in prevention tasks would generate jobs in rural areas, and we don't talk about the use of the mountain, just the prevention tasks. This reality contrasts again with the resolutions adopted in the last debate: with number 16, a programme for rural development, for a radical model change, or with resolution 46 that speaks of what happens to the so-called "milk package". The sad thing is that their submission to the dictates of Madrid and the Troika will make Galicia more vulnerable, more dependent and prevented from having its own agricultural policy according to its needs. On the other hand, the International Transparency of Spain in its report on corruption in the field of public procurement, drawn up on the basis of the data and expert criteria on corruption in the public sector, in the section "Indide for transparency of the parliaments of the year 2014", gives the Greek Parliament at point E – transparency in the procurement of services, works and supplies – a zero. One zero, Mr. Alberto Núñez! Spain's International Transparency points out that a bad score shows a context where bribery prevails, corruption acts remain unpunished, and public institutions do not respond to the needs of citizens. "The hole for the great thief, the prison for those who steal bread," said Pablo Neruda. How, if not, do you explain that you refuse the establishment of a commission of inquiry on the financing of the new Hospital de Vigo, Alvaro Cunqueiro, in the face of the serious deficiencies reported and the social alarm created which was seen at the largest demonstration in the city of Vigo and which finally led to the termination of the councillor? How do you explain that this Parliament will continue to wait for the clarification of business with its colleague, friend, partner or narco, the Narco Martial Golden? What about the scandal of the José Cela Camilo Foundation? What about the training courses? And the adjudication of services in this Parliament to the company Eulen, of which his sister is part and has art? What about the Angois accident? And the ruin of Gaiás? And what about Mr. Bárcenas' statements – "I am strong Luís" – before Judge Ruz where it shows the continued funding and trappings of the People's Party of Galicia and its associates? By the way, I advise you to watch film B, the film, directed by Jordi Casanovas, based on the transcription of the interrogation to Bárcenas and funded by crowdfunding with 597 mecensers who brought money. It is only projected in 14 rooms throughout the state, but the theater work is still alive and is successful, called Ruz-Barcenas. The publicity of the film is, "The movie you want to see. The reality they want you to forget." Not the loss, Mr. Feijó. Rampant corruption in Galicia: in the municipalities – this shameful custom of voting cart – the deputies, members of the Board of Auditors of Galicia under suspicion, caciquism and clientelism in the adjudication of public works. Corruption hidden in many cases by the ominousness of the system of bipartisanism, which degrades and weakens democracy, of a sovereign and free nature, with an electoral system that harms – when none – minority parties and organizations and favors the distribution of cake between the two major parties, perverting and degrading democracy. Albert Camus said, "The politics and destiny of humanity are designed by people without ideals and without greatness; people with greatness do not get involved in politics." And that's what Camus didn't know Mr. Rato, formerly an artist of the economic miracle, President of the IMF, who made us all bankers – to whom you will now help get into the cage to wash your face for the upcoming elections. I am sure that Camus is referring to this sort of political politicists, political pillolopatos. And not to honest, altruistic people with a vocation of service – who, although few, also exist in institutions – people with social and national sensitivity for those who put the interests of the people of Greece above self-interest and others. And his goal is to achieve a prosperous Galician to enjoy everyone and pride of the Galicians. This profile does not match your Government, Mr. Feijóo – rather approaches the profile that Camus draws – nor does it match your party, Mr. Alberto; it is already tiring to number cases of corruption in the People's Party, it happens at such speed that today's one covers yesterday's. "Galiza, the good way." That slogan, applied to everything that has to do with institutional advertising of the Union, which is heard and read in all the media that support its Government's advertising base and other dubious subsidies paid by all. "Galiza, the good way," just for an elite, for the minority, for you and yours, for your friends, from here and outside. Thank you very much, but nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-14-DSPG124.u18	Good afternoon to all and to all. Welcome to the new advisors and advisors. Welcome back, Mr. Almuña. We agree together again, first in Povervisa, today in this Parliament, but always on the same side: you and I are defending the rights of the working class and the social majority. [[Laughter]] But, above all, I would like to congratulate the Povervisa because he's putting back the health advisor, it seems that it's a must to have worked in the direction of Povervisa and then become a advisor, because that's where one learns how to exploit the health care staff in a really effective way. Mr. President, in his speech this morning he presented us with a vision lacking of all self-criticism, full of generalities and that he fled to analyze the weaknesses of illusory economic recovery and its lesser development compared to the rest of the state. Because reality denies its advertising campaign, which aims to use a partial government renewal as a hook, as if it had ensured a change in anti-social policies that it has been practicing the PP ever since, but specifically since you've been president. Unless, with this change of government, you want to recognize that the disastrous state in which the Greek nation is found is the result of its policies that are contrary to the interests of the social majority, that which you now say you want to listen to. If so, welcome. So I tell you that this new active listening attitude that you proclaim will be translated into the adoption of all the resolutions put forward by the opposition, and that they seek a fairer sharing of wealth, free public services – universal and quality – and therefore, among other actions to be taken forward from today's day onwards, the German Government will repeal Law 1/2012 from temporary measures in certain public employment matters. Because the reality that Galicia is suffering requires the recovery of all rights usurped to the majority of society, to the working class, to pensioners, to children and to older and dependent people. In fact, if we make a balance of its government, we can objectively affirm that the legacy left by the Faijóo Government in Galicia is the same as the Rajoy Government leaves us from Madrid: less and worse public services, the disappearance of the most vulnerable people pushed to poverty by their policies, stops and unemployed, poor workers who have to go to the family solidarity or NGOs to eat, forced immigration in which we include the most prepared girls and young people in our history, strategic sectors such as agriculture and the sea abandoned against monopolies and subject to the capricious European and Spanish regulation – which is always going to favour the powerful – consumers subject to the interest of the electric and financial oligopolius, winding up the boxes of saving Welsh – which, finally, sold the price of balance to the foreign bank – of women and children who continue to suffer violence without the powerful means of subsistence, the very precious protection of their families, their own homes, their livelihoods, and their livelihoods. Corruption, corruption and more corruption. So much corruption that citizenship is unable to follow up on all cases that accumulate in the courts throughout the state and that it must have turned the People's Party into the best client of lawyers specialized in corrupt plots: Pikachu, Pokemon, Bárcenas, Patos, Zeta, Martial Dorado... we can follow. In the meantime, the healthy and democratic part of the judiciary, with the very few physical, technical and human means available, must draw out the thousand difficulties that the 78 rotten regime constantly places upon it with the intention of preventing their shame and excesses from coming into public light. But the biggest corruption is work income theft to temporarily avoid the ruin of financial speculators. Yes, the biggest corruption is the policy of employed and employed workers, peasants and farmers, sailors, self-employed and small and medium-sized entrepreneurs who have been stripped of their rights, money and public services for the benefit of the financial, electrical oligopolie and the great builders. They rescued the bank on account of the majority of society and mortgaged public administrations for several generations; they impoverished people to save those responsible for the crisis, those who sold preferences, those who stoned the Greek savings in their excesses – not without ensuring a good retreat –. Even so, the government you're presiding over has not wasted time on liquidating the boxes of savings in Greece, not only with its banking, but also with the savings in Greece and the cultural heritage of the boxes in foreign hands. That yes, once the country is ruined, and after its rescue and banking, they now return the effort systematically denying credit to people and to PEMEs and autonomouss, while expelling the families from their homes – of course, with the welcome of the Greek and state governments –. And we can also talk about the naval sector. Mr. Feijoo, your Government has neither defended the Italian public naval sector nor the private sector. The floating saying was nothing more than pure electoral propaganda, an outrageous electoral propaganda as to unemployment and hopelessness in the working class of Ferrolterra. As for the private naval, he did as with the bank: making real estate promoter to sell at the balance price the best yard of the Vigo River to a foreign investor. But we can also talk about the automobile, the sector where Junta acts as a Citroën employee, being unable to compromise multinationals with the distribution of the workload of auxiliary companies in the sector installed in our country. Because there is no doubt that there is only one taboo theme for the People's Party, an untouchable theme, where the Union is bound by feet and hands, without any possibility of influencing: the rights of the working class. The People's Party is clear: that's a matter between companies and workers; if, really, that's it, why don't you refrain from intervening when workers call strike, go out in protest or accuse the employer? And of course, that impossibility of mediating between employers and working class, and the absolute understanding of the need and increasing business benefits, leads the Union to inhibit itself from acting to defend that the Greek wages are in the middle of the state. A wage gap that condemns Galicia to emigration, to less access to culture and leisure and to an eternally impoverished retired population. And in case the wage gap had been little, the working class bears the precariousness of the type of recruitment, which is mostly part-time and possible, with an average duration of less than seven days and very linked to the temporality of the service sector. Unemployment is more than 20%, with most long-term unemployed people who affect people over 30 years of age – i.e. those with family burdens. Not to mention the total absence, in his speech, of any reference to working for gender equality, starting with wage equality and the right to women's promotion to positions of responsibility, both in the administration and in the private enterprise. In his speech, there was also a lack of concrete commitment to the fight against gender-based violence, beyond generalities, to the importance of prevention or not to use this drama biasedly. Not a proposal, not an initiative, not a budget commitment to this struggle. But the Union, far from establishing policies aimed at overcoming Galicia's secular wage discrimination, applies the same to its workers and public workers, copying the most enslaved behaviors of the private company: sickness discounts, increase of the annual daytime, cuts in wages, reduction of staff. Public policies in human resources that have their most shameful performance in the precariousness of the forest fire prevention and fighting services, and specifically in the precarious situation of Seaga personnel. Equal luck runs with our traditional productive sectors such as agriculture, the dairy sector, fishing or seafood. Sectors subject to the designs of the large multinationals of the sector that take prices making it impossible to sustain farms and ships for the benefit of the large industry, causing the closure of the Greek agricultural and milk farms and the scrapping of our fleet. The inaction of the Union in the face of the death of our marine banks, due to the high pollution caused by decades of uncontrolled spills to our rivers and rivers, leads us to the readiness of the Union to extend the grant to Ence-Elnosa to continue to contaminate – despite the warnings of the European Union and the popular claim of that society which now says you want to hear and respond to it –. However, all this failure that would serve to improve the public accounts led, as shown by the accounts of the Autonomous Community, to multiply by more than three to the debt that left that bipartisan demo that I thought should throw away because it was spending a lot. It will be of no use to this institutional makeup campaign, as it is of no use to continue kidnapping public television and radio and to buy with public funds the silence of the private media. Because society has been able, in these terrible years, to see how the People's Party, both in Madrid and in Galicia, lies about the reality that the people are living. Because you can't convince a social majority that you've lost so much in the last few years that you're wrong, that you're not right about the hunger that you're suffering, about the hardships that you're suffering, that you're living better today than in the years of the bipartisan. A society that mobilizes throughout Galicia demanding the end of the police and public health, the end of the historical discrimination within our country, and that the Hospital Álvaro Cunqueiro recover for the public health of Vigo. A society that mobilizes against the imposition of LOMCE, of classes of religion, of gender segregation in teaching, of the marginalization of the Greek language in study plans, defending a free and universal public education that guarantees the freeness of textbooks and the proper provision of educational centres both in teaching staff and assistants as well as in services and means. And, in order to improve the future of the Greek economy and the future of the most vulnerable citizenship – which, he says, is their greatest interest from today, even today, if not today – only if it happens to lower taxes; lower direct taxes – including the IRPF – that is, raising less, which means increasing inequalities, since only taxes – and especially direct taxes based on income – can ensure that essential public services reach the whole population and progress in equal opportunities, making right what you treat as charity. But you prefer to advertise with the tax discount to then mortgage our country for decades to pay large companies public works concessions with the proliferation of the public-private collaboration formula. Mr Feijoo, with his Government Galicia has lost economic influence, political influence and demographic influence on the state and on Europe. By the way, there is no reference, beyond the well-known timely birth aid, to initiatives that guarantee the protection of both motherhood and childhood. People know and spoke clearly in the municipal elections. That's why it's not worth discussing anything with you anymore because nothing will change. Because the People's Party is already past, although for another year it will maintain the ability to continue to share suffering on the cliff over Greek citizenship. And now, Mr. Feijóo, in the last year of legislation, you intend to come to despair by denying the fact, as if the policies applied so far by the Board were alien to you, as if you were part of that oppressed social majority. This reflects the great contempt you feel for the intelligence of the Greek people. They fight for staying in power, aware that it's the only basis they have left to try to get rid of jail. The circle of Justice is closing on the People's Party, and an incognito is knowing who from the PP and the rotten regime will get rid of or pay corruption with the chain when political power is rescued by honest citizenship. In view of this panorama, it is only urgent to act to save Galicia. If you really believe in this country and its people, let the people speak. Mr. Núñez Feijóo, if he really wants to ensure that his policies are supported by the Greek people, that everything he has done so far was not his responsibility, and that he had to cease some advisor because he was free, privatizing, without you had any knowledge, because you practice politics for the majority of society, because the first thing he has to do is resign and convene elections, because until now he has led a government quite contrary to his speech. So I advise you that, if you really want to defend the interests of the social majority, resign and present a program that you're going to fulfill, and not a propaganda that only serves to distract. But I know you won't because you and the People's Party know they have no future. The future of Galician women and men depends on the people we bet on by the union on the left in the defense of the rights of the social majority and of Galician national rights. The social and national emergency leaves no room for partyism. Perceptive interests, whatever they may be, cannot prevent unity of action from suffering from the Greek people, the agony of our language, the discrimination of our women, the emigration of our youth, the desertification of the Greek countryside, the privatization of health... There is no excuse for opposing the unit. And he tells me to that whole society that he sees in the unity of the left and in the defense of Galicia an opportunity, in these elections to the state, so that Galicia can defend its interests and not impose on us from Madrid the conditions that apply in Galicia. There is no excuse for opposing the unit. There is no room for another government of the People's Party because the common people would not forgive us that political division would allow the rotten regime to continue to crush citizenship and ruin our nation. To finish, I want to read a small poem, a part of João Apolinario's poem in his poem Morse de Sangue, which Luis Cilia put in music, and which says: "It is necessary to warn everyone/transmitting this morse of pain./ It is imperative and urgent/ more flowers more flowers more flowers." More flowers needs Galicia to sweep the corruption of institutions. More flowers needs Galicia to arrive that spring that we will hopefully have here in the autumn, with the People's Party in the opposition and practically disappeared. Galicia needs new policies. It seems to some member of the People's Party to thank him for the tragic situation in our country. And it's sad that it's somebody who's here and belongs to Ferrolterra, a county specially punished by the People's Party, a county...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-14-DSPG124.u19	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-14-DSPG124.u20	...that the People's Party has especially deceived him by promising him the defense of a fundamental sector, such as the naval sector, and which has just stoned him to deny his investment in the floating deck. Don't laugh. They don't have much time. They have a year of laughter. In a year, we'll laugh at everyone else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-14-DSPG124.u21	Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. Mr. Jorquera Caselas has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-14-DSPG124.u22	"The times have come to erupt the y-soul and the thought of Galicia, and above all his sovereignty. This is not an argument: Galicia has the right, a fundamental right, to be an absolute donor of itself. With free will we will make weddings of love with other sovereigntys, meet them that do not go or want to go our sovereignty." Manifesto of the Nationalist Assembly. Lugo, November 1918. In this is what you called today morning, regardless of isolationism. In the brotherhood of the free people. Madam President, Mr Feijóo, Counsellors, Members, Members, Invited Persons, this Parliament approved 2016 to be the year of the Brotherhood of Speech. We are therefore at the door of the centenary of his birth. The emergence of brotherhoods was a milestone in Galicia's history. For the first time, an organization placed the Galician nation, the people of Greece, as a subject of decision of its social, cultural and political becoming. A process that ended two years later with the Nationalist Assembly. The founders of the brotherhoods made Galicia the strength that unites us, and demanded together sovereignty, the recognition of our national rights, which yesterday, as today, is denied us. Mr. Feijóo, a hundred years later, Galliza is witnessing the agony of a government that represents all the opposite of those good and generous who lit up the fact of our self-government. Because his government is dying, and there's no remodeling that saves him. Look, you're trying to save the wreckage by stopping the health counsellor, but you've called the 200,000 people out on the street in Vigo to denounce the outcome of the new hospital. His defeat, Mr Feijóo, because one of the first measures he took when he arrived in the presidency was to hand over the construction and management of that hospital to private hands. The deterioration of public health is your responsibility, Mr. Feijóo. The health counsellor did not cease you – do not confuse yourself – the people cease, social mobilization takes place! [[Applause]] He's trying to save himself from the wreckage, and he's also turning Quintana away from the management of the field. But you, in the dairy crisis, all you do is applaud what's decided in Madrid, applaud a decree that discriminates against yellow cattle in access to aid. And, above all, the Secretary General of Agriculture intends to take us for fools saying that "there are farms that earn money with the liter at 0.26 and others that lose with it at 0.34." In short, they're messing with us and your government says it's raining! Mr. Feisé. And yet he was ashamed to ask the gainees for explanations of his opposition to this outrage. This one's a rascal! So don't be deceived, you didn't stop Mrs. Quintana. Our knights have died by pulling the tractors out of the streets, Mr. Feijóo! [[Applause]] Look, all you care about is saving yourself, trying to keep up as the country falls. That's why now he announces he's going to do in a year what he hasn't done in seven, but no one expects anything from you anymore. He has no credibility to offer anything new to this country. He was told that his government represents everything contrary to the Brotherhood of Speech. "When a country is able to catalyze its vital energies; when every woman and man knows how to carry out their citizen duty, and when the leaders remember at every moment of their work that continues to monitor the maximum that democracy is the Government of the people and for the people; when that conjunction of factors occurs, difficulties are beyond. " Do you recognize this sentence, Mr. Feijóo? It's yours, it's yours! He pronounced it on April 14, 2009, at the debate of his investment. But you have done absolutely nothing to catalyze the enormous vital energies of this country. He preferred to condemn Galicia to irrelevance, rather than to bother his friends of his Government friend in Madrid. Look, this morning he spoke of a Greek response to the crisis, when the only answer you gave was, "To your orders, Mr. Rajoy." In his investment he also said to be convinced that the Greeks want a president who doesn't lie to them. Perhaps that's why, when he tried to explain his relationship with Martial Golden, he actually said a great truth: "There was snow." But can you say today without lying, without even blushing, that your government was a government of the people and to the people? "We share the wings of the vast majority of society, who wants to live in a more just, freer and more solidarity society," you said. Can you claim today without lying, without reproaching, that we live in a society that is fairer, freer and more solidarity? In 2014 – latest data available – 20.8% of the homes in Greece reported having many difficulties to arrive at the end of the month. A year earlier it was 16.6%. In 2013 – last available data – 23.8% of the population in Greece was at risk of poverty or social exclusion. And despite that, in 2015 Galicia is the second community that has less increased the stakes for health and social protection, and the third that has less increased the spending on education. I'm not saying that, Mr Feijóo, says the Galician Economic and Social Council. It says we have more than 177,000 unemployed who do not receive a benefit; more than 600,000 people at risk of poverty; more than 12,000 unattended dependents; alerting the brutal increase in inequalities, delays and obstacles to access the Risk and social emergency aid. And now you say that your priority will be social policies, when since you're President Galicia was the third community you've cut out most in teachers and the fourth most in health care? And after seven years of non-compliance, do you intend to create the new contract that you offer us today? For seven years he repeated that Galicia was going to emerge from the crisis before and with more vigor than anyone else, and it turns out that in 2014 the Greek economy grew only the third part of Spain. We're in the growing tail, Mr. Feijóo. I don't say it, INE says it, and also the Galego Institute of Statistics. Now you say it's logical that the recovery is greater where the fall has been greater as well. That is, does it seem little to you that since 2009 Galician has been closing, on average, twice as many companies as in Spain? That since 2009 it had been destroyed in Galicia, on average, the double job? What's less than 160,000 busy when you got to the presidency? Today we know a report by the European Union which sets Galicia as an example of job destruction. And with this data, Mr Feijóo, your government has failed to implement a euro of every three in the various employment programmes. And now take one more step and remove the Work Council. That's his real social sensitivity! But I am still, Mr. Feijó. Do you think it's a small fall that, according to the IGE, since the beginning of the crisis had to leave 200,000 people in Galicia, most young people? Our country's future is on the move! Knowledge's on the move! We lost 6,000 university degrees and more than 1,000 researchers. And with this data, your big remedy to the demographic crisis is to create a general direction and emulate ZP by creating a baby check? Look, he just had to announce he's also going to make an E plan. You said in 2009 that "we can't compete by offering lower wage costs." That's what he said, Mr. Feijóo. And since that, salary costs have dropped by 13% more than the average of the state. Today the annual income of a Greek is less than 3,000 euros than that of a Spanish, and 12,000 euros than that of a godmother; a situation that suffers mostly from the Greek women, the great victims of this crisis. In Galicia, the pay gap between men and women is already the highest in the state. Look, with you, the gap is growing, and I'm not telling you, tell it the regional wealth data published by Eurostat in 2013, the latest available data. The average per capita wealth of a Welshman is 17 points smaller than that of a European citizen, and in 2009 the difference was 8 points. I mean, with you we're going back ten points and ten years; we're going back to the 2004 percentage. Mr. Feijóo, look, it's true that he played as president during one of the greatest crises that you remember; a crisis aggravated in our country because he added to the structural crisis that Galicia was already suffering because of our dependence. But you've preferred to ride Troy on the politics that march our country. We have exclusive competences in agriculture. In 2009 it said it would boost approved contracts, promote quality promotion policies and eco-agriculture, dimensionalize farms by mobilising agricultural land in use. And he didn't do anything! All he did was let others decide for us. He said his government's goal was to keep fishing quotas, and the reality is that we've lost quota. We have exclusive powers, but you accept that the European Union tells us, even, what and how we can fish in our inland waters. The reality is that we are encouraging the abandonment of activity, and if we do not produce, Mr Feijóo, we do not live. No country has a future without its own economic base. When he arrived at the presidency he committed to boosting renewable energies, instead he accepted the paroon of the renewables decreed by the Central Government. And even accept that the central government, to protect the interests of the big electricians, penalizes self-consumption. We were the first in the wind sector and we are no longer, Mr. Feijóo, as much as you this morning invented a virtual reality. Since you've been president, even in Andalusia, you've installed five times more power than in Galicia. We are the first in power generation, but we pay one of Europe's most expensive tariffs, while nearly 100,000 Greek homes cannot afford the light, and there are companies that can close because they can't afford the energy costs. You said in 2009 that "We Greeks cannot compete by offering natural resources without added value." All right, Mr. Feijóo, because an added value is to take advantage of our energy to attract industries. But it still seems like a sin that there is a Welsh electric tariff so that electricity generated by taking advantage of our resources creates wealth and employment in our country. It has also been committed to allocating resources to improve the technological and human capital of our economy. Look, according to the IGE, between 2008 and 2013 – the latest available data – innovative companies have been reduced to half, Mr Feijóo. And as the researchers in Spain increased, in Galicia we continued to lose researchers. And now you want to make us believe that it will enhance the modernization of our productive fabric, when you watched as a spectator the loss of our state-of-the-art company in telecommunications, and it's countless the payroll of Greek companies where the property also emigrated? As we have already told you, with you Galician headquarters is moving to Madrid. We are the first in saving capacity, but it turns out that since 2009 Galicia has been the community where the credit concession was most backward. The per capita credit granted in Galicia does not reach half the state average. I don't say it, Mr Feijóo, say it to the Banco de España. Almost EUR 14,000 million of our emigrant savings to provide credit to other territories. But I know it's a sin to create a Galego Institute of Credit or transform what was left of our old boxes into a Welsh public bank, as we also proposed. But you preferred to look elsewhere, accept that Novagalicia Banco was sold to a Venezuelan bank; a loss sale, as we have reported in this House. Not only did one euro of the 9,000 million public resources that were injected into the sewer, but it even paid for selling it. That was always your attitude, Mr. Feijóo, to look elsewhere in the face of the country's problems. You'd rather always look back to see who's to blame, or find out that you don't have skills, rather than taking responsibility and defending and exercising what you have. People demand their rulers to assume their responsibilities, to face up to their problems rather than to crack; but you are the only one who does it is to get away with it, Mr. Feijóo. You have been caught preventing an investigation commission from being set up in this Parliament on the English accident. And he still has the nerve to say that "the judge's decision coincides with the feeling of majority in society." That's his respect for the memory of the victims he invoked this morning. [[Applause]] He tried to get caught up in his favorite scam, until social pressure forced him to retreat. Until social pressure forced them to retreat, gentlemen of the People's Party, what a pity to them! [[Murmurs.]] Try to get away with it when Mr. Montoro steals our returnees. So thank Spain for the work and sacrifice of our emigrants! He tries to get away when Norway steals the Greek sailors wrapped around in his fleet. Look, Spain has time to mobilize its diplomacy against the Catalan process, but it doesn't have time to denounce Norway to the European Court of Human Rights. You'd rather not bother Norway than defend our sailors and stop them from being stolen by Norway. That's the balance of your government, Mr. Feijóo! [[Applause]] That's the balance of your government: to replace the action of the Government by occurrences of Tertullian or by games of appearance. I proposed measures, for example, in corruption. I proposed apparent and abstract measures to avoid rendering accounts of very specific cases that tipped his party. He had to see the water on his neck to stop the delegates from Vigo and Ourense. He has played on appearances with our culture: "Our culture, at the heart of Galicia's being, will require primary attention for us," you said. And the primary attention consisted of his demolition. Maybe that's why, for you, our culture doesn't even deserve advice. The accumulated cut in Culture is 60%. Now, that's right, that there's no shortage of money for the José Cela Camilo Foundation despite the multiple corruption scandals that spread it! In linguistic normalisation or cropping exceeds 69%. See, in 2009 the presence of Welsh in child education in our cities was 35%, and now there are no 5% of children's centres that use all or part of Greek throughout the country; and, according to the IGE, more than 22% of children under the age of 15 can't speak in English. It consists of his declared love for our tongue! And he still dares to say, as he said this morning, that there is no need to use Greek as a political weapon. You, precisely you, who have poisoned the Union by lying, by speaking of a false imposition of the Greek! [[Applause]] Look, he also played to the looks to cover up the inaction of his government. We have a good example in legislative production. They presented laws lacking content; even reforms of laws that had already been presented in this same legislation. And yet, in this legislation, they were only able to present 27 laws, half as much as the bipartite, as much as they like to talk to you, and the same number as those presented by the BNG. Look, with 7 Members and without the Government apparatus, we brought to this House, in this legislation, 26 laws. The last, the AP-9 transfer law to Galician Union. The event with AP-9 is all an example of their contempt for self-government. Now, with the state legislation finished, in order to wash your face, you vote for the transfer, but the reality is that for seven years they haven't done anything, and just four months ago they voted against the transfer in Madrid, also the Welsh and Welsh Members of the People's Party. And he did it with his favorites, too. [[Applause]] On the same day that they voted in Galicia in favour of not applying to them a discharge, on the same day they voted against in Madrid. Mr Feijóo, in many debates in this House you liked to remember my time as a Member of the Congress. Well, during that period, I've experienced situations like this, or situations like I'm going to describe them. Government Zapatero, BNG's proposal to defend our naval sector. The PSOE voted against it, and you – who were in opposition – voted in favour. Government Rajoy, the same BNG proposal with dots and commas; ask Mr. Celso Delgado. The PSOE – now in the opposition – voted in favour, and you – now in the Government – voted against. That's the game of state parties with Galicia, say one thing in Galicia and do another in Madrid. That's the game! [[Applause]] But anyway, I'm going to give you the opportunity to prove that you don't play the looks, and then, if you want, you can also show that you're a lot of weight in Madrid. [[Applause]] It's commencing here and now that the People's Party will include the transfer of AP-9 into the general election program. Compromise, Mr. Feijóo! [[Applause]] Look, Mr. Feijóo, with you there is a paradox: he's president of an autonomous government but he doesn't believe in self-government. He said in 2009 that he was going to continue the competition demands that the two-party government has filed before the State Administration, but since then he has not achieved a single competition or claimed or exercised those he had. He passed his presidency saying he couldn't pay what he didn't have to justify the cuts. This morning he did it again. Since 2009 the cuts have risen to EUR 10 billion, and despite that, the public debt has grown to over 6,000. You tripled public debt but accepted an unfair financing system with Galicia, even at the cost of mortgageting the country. Look, since the entry into force of the current system, Galicia has lost more than 7,600 million. He played the system review in 2014, but the Central Government has broken the law and you accept it; you, who always says that the first duty of a ruler is to comply with the law. Other communities claim to review and implement their proposals and, in a matter that should be a matter of state for Galicia, you continue to give the floor in response. I talked about this and other issues at the last control session and the only one who answered me was: "In order to defend Galicia the first is to comply with the Statute and Constitution." He said it again this morning. Honestly, Mr. Feijóo, have you read the Constitution? Tell the truth, the Greeks want a president who doesn't lie to them; tell the truth, please. Did you read the Constitution? You have not yet learned that the only remaining part of the Constitution is that "The Head of State is the King" and that the other is that "Spain is the common and indivisible homeland of all Spaniards", and if not, we send the army. And you still haven't found out that that's the only thing left of the Constitution? The rest you loaded! Read Pérez Royo, Professor of Constitutional Law. He says that there is no Constitution anymore, that he died as a result of the coup d'état of the Constitutional Court. I'm going to read you a textual quote from your statements: "Since the Constitutional Court's ruling brought down the reform of the Catalan Statute, Spain lacks territorial constitution. The Magna Charter established the integration of nationalities into the State as a complex act that negotiated the parliaments of the State and that of the nationality concerned. And it established systems of guarantees: the State should adopt the autonomous text in the Courts, and autonomy would consult its people in referendum if it accepted the possible modifications established by the State. That's broken in 2010.", concludes Pérez Royo. And you, so obsessed with Catalonia, are you unable to understand that this also affects Galicia? His party took the chances that in constitutional terms they could develop self-government and achieve real self-government. Look, you say to defend Galicia, the first is to comply with the Statute, when you have converted the Statute of autonomy into a dead letter! You've been, Mr. Feijóo, they've flung the Statute just as it's emptying the country! [[Applause]] He despises so much the self-government that he also said he would not tolerate any asymmetry, when the asymmetry, Mr. Feijóo, was in the Constitution and in the Statute; when the asymmetry – see if he finds himself, Mr. Feijóo! – favours Galicia, because we are not Madrid, we are not La Rioja, we are historical nationality because, whether they want or not, we are a nation! Let's see if he finds out! [[Applause]] Look, Mr. Feijóo, no analyst doubt that the central issue in the next state legislation will be the people's rights, so a constitutionalist such as Pérez Royo gives for burial the frame and recognizes that the new framework will be born of the dynamics generated in the nations of the state. The state of autonomy is a broken model. As we have already told you, the crisis of that state model has only two possible exits, Mr. Feijóo: the rupture of the state or its reformulation from the full respect for the rights of the peoples that make it up. And on that stage, Mr. Feijóo, Galicia has two options: the option that BNG – together with all those who want to share this project – wants to encourage, that of freedom, the will as a people to be protagonists in our history; or the option of submission, to allow others to decide for us, ultimately, the option that you represent. Centralization was the way you used your party to disassemble the social state, to concentrate even more wealth and economic power; and you agreed to do in Galicia's horse of Troy in that process. Look, when we talk about the right to decide we don't do it because it's an alleged dogma of nationalists' faith, not even for identity reasons, we do it to give the Greek people the tools that enable them to build their collective progress. We do so thinking about the well-being of the Greeks and the Greeks, because the current model denies the Greek people something as elementary as the right to the future, Mr. Feijóo. In Galicia the number of people living on a job is already a minority. We don't want that future for Galicia. The Greek youth represented the fourth part of the occupied population in the year 2000; now, little more than 10%. We don't want that future for Galicia, we don't want a future where we assume it's normal to give the boys a suitcase to emigrate, we don't want that future, Mr. Feijóo. Instead, we want something so simple but so important – something so elementary but so important – that we can live a decent job on our own land. Look, we have a country that is a virgin, capable of producing food to feed millions of mouths, but Galicia is on its way to becoming an economic and populational desert. We have talent, we have gone and we are pointers in many fields of industry and knowledge. We have a working culture, we have a saving capacity, we have huge natural resources. We want the Greek people to decide on their economy to mobilize all those resources, to create wealth and employment in the country; to revive our cities, our coasts, our fields; to recover the joy, Mr. Feijóo, that they should never lose. Look, the Greek is our being; Castelao said that we are Welsh by work and grace of language. Greek is a source of culture, but it's also a source of wealth, it's a window to communicate with 250 million people in the world, a window of opportunity to support a powerful cultural and communication industry. That's why we want to enhance our language and culture. Mr Feijóo, ladies and gentlemen, Galicia needs to open up a new time, a time that provides a horizon, a hope for the future for the people of Greece. And you, Mr. Feijóo, don't be mistaken, you have no other horizon to save yourself as we said, while this country is being destroyed. You have no hope for the future to offer our people. That's why the best service you can do for this country, honestly, is to go; frankly, that's the best service. And it gives us exactly the same thing as you go home or go to Madrid, it gives us exactly the same thing; but, with all due respect, I tell Feijóo what he told Felipe González his dear friend Aznar at the moment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-14-DSPG124.u23	Thank you, Mr. Jorquera. Parliamentary Group of the Left Galician Alternative, Mr Beiras.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-14-DSPG124.u24	With the coming of the presidency, ladies and gentlemen, go ahead that the Alternative Glaga de Left and I myself, of course, make our own allegations by the spokesperson of the BNG and, therefore, I am not going to repeat in the same assertions and absolutely true analyses already made. I will try to provide a complementary vision. As Mr. Núñez would say, "from another perspective." It is well known that, after the fall of Rome into the hands of the so-called "barbarians" – by foreigners – and the decomposition of the Western Roman Empire, the culture and civilization of Europe covered by that empire have gone through a long period of deep and darkness, from which strictly they would not leave fully until the first European Renaissance, which the medievalist Georges Duby places in the 12th century, in the 15th century – certainly, the known as the "Jelmirez century" in Greek historiography. Among the explanations offered by historians of so brutal and prolonged "historical backwardness", one of the theses formulated points to the following as one of the primal causes: Rome had inherited the cultural universe created by classical Greece, which covered from philosophy, arts and science, and its projections in applied arts, that is, in technical civilization. But during the decline phase of the Empire, the cultivation and transmission of philosophical and scientific knowledge were progressively unsolicited, until they were confined almost exclusively to knowledge useful to the reproduction of the material conditions of the existence of their civilization, not of their culture. In other words, training for training has been unsolicited, basic research has been abandoned in favor of technology, knowledge has been replaced by skills. Thus, when the Empire fell, by destroying the political organization, disintegrating the social organization, and to a large extent destroying the material reality of technical civilization, the resulting chaotic world emerged, prevailing, the barbarism that had already raged inside the previous one. And the lack of the indispensable philosophical, scientific and artistic bases has prevented for centuries not only the reconstruction of culture, but of the material civilization itself based on those cultural bases. The Arabs had to arrive at Al-Andalus to reintroduce, in the far south-western part of Europe, the knowledge of classical Greece, so that Alberto Magno, Tomas de Aquinas and the other first intellectuals of medieval European Western Europe could rediscover Aristotle, Plato, Archimedes, Pythagoras, Hippocrates and all the others. It is the Renaissance of the XII-XIII centuries. The chrysalid of empirical barbarism nestled in the structures of the power of imperial decadence, had laughed like the elbow that regime and cost, then, centuries of long night of cultural, economic, political and social stone. The barbarism of arrest, at the present end of the historical cycle, you are in charge of it. And I don't only refer primarily to the occupants of the Board in singular, but to the deafness of what you are a tiny terminal appendix, which goes from your chiefs to the central power of the state, in turn to the monifets of your masters installed in Berlin, Brussels and Wall Street. When Ray Bradbury wrote, in 1953, the dystopian novel entitled Fahrenheit 451 – knowing it's because it's at the temperature that burns the paper – he was formulating the premonition of the creepy drift that you, that is, the deafness of materialistic power in the service of plutocracy, would start half a century later in the system-world at the orders of the ineffable brute called Bush II, and in the European Union of the Fourth Reich with the factual abolition of citizenship as a social expression of democratic and republican culture. Since the infamous Bologna Plan, which annihilates a European university system built over nine hundred years, it calls for the totalitarian annulment of the democratic sovereignty of the people, who, like the Greek, commit the dislate to vote badly, i.e., to counterbalance the dictates of the Lord King Midas Berlinese – read Schäuble, or as it is pronounced – and of the devouring global Minotaur. Someone scientificly so Solvent and ideologically so unsuspecting of extremism, as is James Galbraith, wrote – when the European Union set on fire the Greek democratic will expressed in referendum and made a car of faith with its Government – that the factual powers embodied in the famous Eurogroup – that lacks legal bases or no regulation, why is it necessary? – they managed to generate a monstrous hybrid, literally, of "stalinism in neoliberal molds". But it is known that if every time the result of elections in one country deviates from the path to hell imposed by the autocrats, if there were every time to rectify that route to Eurozone – and therefore to them, the European Union – would be ingovernable. Schäuble said. And we're living the final phase of a historical cycle. And therefore a transition stage, coincidentally in three overlapping areas: that of the world system, that of the European Union and that of the Spanish regime in the famous transition. Here is the context in which it is necessary, to frame any general policy debate, as this official is entitled, in any chamber of representatives that prays to be such a thing – a context in which, moreover, it should be pointed out that here, where we, in the Italian autonomous Lilibus, this debate is the last of the current legislation. So, as in all phases of transition, they intersect and collide with the dynamics of processes that are ending with those that are emerging, the phenomena that are perishing and dying with those who are gestating and being born. They are winding waters which make navigation risky and dangerous, like the waves of rivers that form a ferret in the ocean: the current and level of the river, according to the station; that of the tide, in a brawl or in a valley, alive or dead; the wind of land or out, from north or across; and the bass and scissors, at the risk of being swept away. You're already imagining. So it's hard to fly in a way. At the level of the world-system, we are at the stage of systemic chaos caused by the crisis of hegemony of the dominant power, which still dominates only monetary-financial and war-related issues. The equivalent historically preceding phase lasted the thirty years of Euro-Asian wars – in the words of Immanuel Wallerstein – from 1914 to 1945. Belly, he engineered two world wars; financially, he broke out with the 1929 crack and the gold pattern-breaker; socially, he crushed the common citizen of the whole planet with the Great Depression; and politically, he waged the tyranny of European Nazisms – Mussolinian, Hitlerian and Frankish – and also Asian, like the Japanese. Beautiful apocalyptic balance without sacred scriptures. I'm not going to offend your baggage by telling them their current equivalents. I'll only point to two of the analogues. First, the running forward hyperbelicist inaugurated by Bush II, with his genocidal war preventative wars against the axis of evil – without anyone putting it in front of a mirror – who destroyed the Middle East and much of Africa and engineered, first, the filthy emigrantism that turned the waters of the Mediterranean into the largest European cemetery of drowning and now the Syrian exodus translated into, disks, crisis of refugees who do not get shelter in the Eurozone – because that does not give any income or surpluses – while the governments are laughing in the distribution of quotas as in the auction down into the fishing grounds. And, then, human rights, huh? For in the wet role of the Union's treaties, and enough with that, who violates those rights is Venezuela – who has educated and given free health and social security to the people of Eduardo Galeano – not xenophobic Hungary that closes the doors and mistreats the refugees, not Mexico the narco-president Peña and the massacre of Atzotinapa – and so many others –, neither the former Colombian president Uribe – maximum responsible for the xenophobic paramilitary groups – nor the racist state of Israel; of course, neither the Schäuble, as jealously imperterit in the face of the Greek humanitarian crisis as its predecessor Hitlerian minister Walter Funk verb of the slave labor imposed by him to the untermenschens, the subhumans –now, the lazy inhabitants of the peripheral Europe of the south–. Nor did the government of Ukraine, which Schäuble and ISCIA – without allusions – finally, the coup and declaredly Nazi, granted this summer the pardon of debt that had been refused by the Greek Social Democratic Government of Syriza a month earlier. Because paying for Ukraine won't cost us any money as it would cost us for Greece, will it? Of course, for Schäuble and Rajoy the extremists sleep socialist Democrats or Democrats at all times, not the Nazi arresters, who are family. And you collaborate in those infamous while imposing the teaching of the Catholic religion of the Counter-Reform rather than Latin, philosophy, literature... and Greek, of course. Humanity, for what, if you're making a world of droids the image and likeness of it. The second analogy moves us to the second level, that of the European Union. The building of the European Union has been demolished, bombed by the artillery of the markets, from outside, and from within, by the explosion of frauds such as that of Volkswagen, – of course, founded by Hitler, even the design of the famous carriageman – which will not cost us any money, as the black holes of the German bank cost us, and was replaced by a cardboard-stone scenario, by the way of the people Potemkin – the housing simulations of the Tsarist minister famous for it itself and which, in addition to giving involuntary names to the bulldozership, also famous for Eisenstein's film, was surely a source of inspiration for the Aznarist politicians and rajoyan promoters of mega-Roman works never used for their intended destinations, from deserted airports to cities of incultura, today settled by four reals or disintegrating into cachi due to the 20th –. But, strictly speaking, the fact is that the construction of the European Union has never even begun. In the transit of the Common Market to a European Union, the construction of a genuine political union – a host of economic, social, cultural and civic instruments of European diversity and which, therefore, required a democratic process from below to above, analogous to that of the construction of a confederal building – was supplanted by a simple monetary union, not even economic one, the Eurozone, mounted from above to the dictate of ultraliberalism – which is already lacking in that – with the castration of the state banks of the Member States and without being replaced by a similar Community institution – by the US Federal Reserve – and, therefore, subject to democratic political control and the service of states and not markets. Reason has the former Italian finance minister – and professor, dean of constitutionalists –, Giuseppe Guarino, claiming, in a recent essay, that the implementation of the euro was a real coup d'état, therefore a totalitarian act already in origin, well before the commission now against the Greek State or in 2011 against the tax-budgetary sovereignty of the Spanish Courts. Well, in that context, maybe the second analogy that I wanted to point out to you with the systemic chaos of the 20th century surrender period. Just as the 29 crack of 29 happened to stubborn itself to maintain a gold- gold-gold pattern incompatible with the reality of the world-world-system of the then system, and as well as the subsequent suicidal reaction of not removing the model caused the Great Depression to stop the Great Depression, as well as the impact of Wall Street in 2008 on Eurozone was lethal because of the bitter institutional design of this monetary union, and also as well as the subsequent suicidal suicidal reaction of not removing the model caused the Great Depression to stop the Great Depression, as well as the impact of Wall Street in 2008's gold-gold in Eurozone was fatal because of the bitter institutional design of this monetary union, and the subsequent suicidal political leaders and their zombie economist politicians and their zombie economist economist economists and citizens of the common common mission of the entire Union, made their true humanitarian tragedy throughout their entire periphery, from the Baltic from the Mediterranean to the Mediterranean Mediterranean and to the westlands, and to the westlands, we are at once again, we are at once-at once-at once, the westlands – where we are, and we are at once we are at once again.; we are at once we are at once, the wests; we are, the wests; we are at once we are at once. we are at once. we are made, the wests; we are at once. we are at once we are at once we are at once. we are at once we are made, and the Earth, the Earth, the Earth-we. we are made, the west. we are made, and the Earth-we. we are made, we are made, and we are the west and the Earth-we. we are made, and the Earth-we. we are at once once once once once once once once once we are made, the Earth-we. we are represented, the Earth-we. we are represented. we are represented, the Earth we are the Earth we are represented, the Earth and the Earth-up. we are the Earth we are represented. we are the Earth we are the Earth we are the Earth we are represented. we are represented. we are represented. we are the Earth we are the Earth we are the Earth we are represented. we are the Earth we are the Earth we are the Earth we are the Earth we are the Earth we are the Earth and the Earth and the Earth we are It was of no value that the most honest and solvency thinking heads of the planet in social sciences allegedly denounced the madness of that path towards hell. Nor has it been worth so far that the most lucid or more assaulted citizenry entered an effort to combat democratic self-defense. The barbarism that you incarnate doesn't serve the reasons, nor intellectuals nor ethics, nor scientists, nor morals, nor democratic nor humanitarians. You, like all the mercenaries in history, like all the soldiers, only carry out orders from heads, tails, dukes, dukes or führers, and when you have to apply military hand. You don't think about it, or at the end of it, you just think about metal. It's the simple fight against force of reason against reason of force, and I'm not going to mention to them a sentence, which would surprise them, from the pacifist Camus – quoted here – in his famous letters to a German friend under the Nazi occupation of France. The advance comes to be a simple outline of the urgency of the context in which the action is placed, the government disk, of its party – the PP – both in the central power of the state and in the flaming Autonomous Community of Wales It is the context that determines the application of political mortars that reverse the normal relationship between power – when it is democratic, when it is intended to be democratic – and citizens: instead of acting with criteria of general interest to the service of the common people, they practice systematic aggression against them on the basis of the interests of their friends-we. Certainly this perverse drift of the regime at the state level and of the Galician Autonomy is compounded by certain congenites – which I have already referred to in other similar debates before, beginning with the celebration when your investment, Mr. Núñez, so that I will save them repeatedly, and I will only make a few reminder points. The first refers to the management of the current regime – you have to remember when you intend to delete it. It should be remembered that the Spanish State is the only case in Europe in which, at the end of a fascist totalitarian regime, a democratic constitutional process has not been opened ex novo, but a political reform – of irreformable – agreed above with the sheriffs of the previous criminal regime. That is, an ethical and political fraud to citizenship all and especially those who played freedom and life in the fight against tyranny – which killed up to the last hour –; so, by chance, the murder of the anti-Francists lawyers of Atocha, or the last five anti-fascist fighters – two of them – shot while the old brown man was dying in bed, and from what they just got 40 years ago last September – I think the day 27, exactly. Above all, the abhorrent amnesty law of 1977 did not amnesty only those condemned by the tyrannical franchisee legality – it would lack more – but also, above all, the gruesome of political criminals, torturers and mercenary murderers of the regime due to the Francoist genocide. You will say that it is past water that no longer comes to the story, that it does not move mills, but yet a few months ago this House voted against the proposed reform of that law formulated by the BNG, thus finding out from the report of the United Nations rapporteur who requested it and declared the crimes of those amnesty criminals to be irredictable. In contrast, in Argentina you despise, the Final Point Law has been repealed years ago by President Kirchner. Learn, please The second, it reaches the restoration of the Bourbon monarchy, for the constitutional pact declared a monarch who had been illegitimately invested as king by the Frankish courts in application, no less than the Succession Law of 1946, one of the Basic Laws of the Spanish Fascist National Movement – – law students had to learn that law at the foot of the letter in the 1950s. Those fundamental laws that in transition the promoters of the People's Alliance intended to maintain vigour – pointed, yes – that's right. The same law which, by then, already declared Spain a kingdom, with a vital regent, and which the Constitution also assumed – no hostage, of course, by the dead –. Nor is that water passed, because this fraud has just had a second edition in the subreptial substitution of Juan Carlos I by Felipe VI without consulting the – you say – sovereign people of the single and indivisible Spanish nation. The third consists of the unjustifiable rejection of constitutional recognition of the right of self-determination, proclaimed by the highest bodies of the international community and documentedly assumed by all the clandestine democratic forces in late-franquism –Felipe González included, as I am known to have been a member, like him, of the Iberian Socialist Conference representing the past history of the PSG. The thing was a serious anti-democratic contradiction in a sociopolitical state – i.e., objectively – multinational as Spanish, and it had grave consequences, since ETA's violence that, if that right was recognized, would not have existed, i.e. constitutionally boundless by the powerful Catalan civic-independentist process of arrest. Nor is this, therefore, past water, but another of the original sins – in the lexicon of its catholicism of stone card – which, coupled with the capital sins of the constant involution already accepted from the dawn coup d'état of 23F 1981 – only broke to half – and then aggravated and accelerated by the devastating impact of the ultraliberal hurricane from Mitteleuropa, on the constitutional clauses guaranteed by the civic-political freedoms and the labour and social rights of the common citizen; and explain enough the process of institutional and social decomposition of the current regime, which reaches the state of rotrefaction in this historical cycle, in the curriculum clouded by the endemic corruption, where this premonatory Celtic Show of the extinct Triunfo magazine, apart from the reposition of the Court of the Miracles and some of the most spent by Don Ramón María del Valle-Inclán. Of course, in the context of the Bourbonic Restoration, the German Autonomy also suffered from congenital or original sins – I told you that I had marked them when their investment and I will not repeat them. Between the rickets of the truly exclusive powers attributed to the Statute, the progressive and imposing invasion of them all by the central power, and more than here – the difference of Euskadi and Catalonia – the alloctone forces of the Spanish reactionary right occupied Together and Parliament all the time, except for legislation and the medium – which we have been a third century –, the congenital waves multiplied the species and allowed the autonomy capacity to serve Galicia, until it became simply apparent or virtual. Even during the term of office of the state man who was President Fraga, who said that state was in his head, and who tried to put his pulse on the central power of his own party and we know he couldn't. But you came along with your demolition squad and they did what Fraga had not intended to do, and it seemed inconceivable: they jumped the qualitative leap from using the autonomy institutions against the self-government of the citizens and the citizens of Greece. They were served by the ultra-liberal teutuna metropolis and its Moncloa carpetoveton branch. First, since the opposition, they boycotted the comprehensive and strengthening reform of the Statute, promoted by the bipartisan and clearly supported by civil society, as they had made themselves manifest in the round of appearances held in this Parliament. Then, emboldened in the Union, they proceeded to convert the Statute into a skeleton with no muscles, no nerves, no blood; and, worst of all, no brain. I'm not going to do here the inventory of their damage, part of which have already been done by the two Members of the Joint Group and the fellow Jorquera, and will make them my companion Yolanda Díaz in defense of our proposals to try to remedy them. I will only briefly remember his seven capital sins, although I would add feminicide: 34 Greek women killed since 2009, to complete the primitive relationship of St. Casiano in the eighth century, which was eight instead of seven. Some recent samples of these damage: One: the policing and blocking of wind energy and other alternatives, with the submission of conglomerated electric scammers, the expatriation of Fenosa, the aggression to self-generation now culminated by the minister Soria with the new scam; the scandal of the false tariff deficit; counterfeiting of counters – amen of Sogama and brutal contamination by thermoelectrics. Two: the theft of the boxes already mentioned, gifted after sanitation with 9,000 million paid by citizens, so that the new owners would make 1,500 profits in the first year! –I guess they were very bad, but 1,500 profits, it was said. And the kidnapping of their foundation, and they still kiss their hands, now recently for a scrap of 18 million euros. Three: the extermination of the owners, subject to the extortion of the industries and distributors, encouraged by the Union without having moved a finger in their defense, or even yet in anticipation of the suppression of milk quotas announced by the EU long ago, and so it was questioned multiple times last year in this House, without ever having answered or done anything! And in the sea, the harassment of the fleets of height and underage; the scandal of the outside mexillon packed in preserved here as a Welsh product or the new offensive of the fish-fishing waste, – announced, by sight –. Four: the reduction of workers to slavery and insecurity: almost 200,000 unemployed without subsidy; virtual disappearance of stable jobs; generalization of contracts in precarious, sometimes not temporary, only episodes and paid for just hours to work twice, without contributing to social security, or without time to acquire right to unemployment or retirement. And as a result, the exodus of youth in this aging country that loses inhabitants each year. On top of that, the returnees who worked outside their entire lives – as Jorkera has already remembered – are charged by retirement taxes that have already been taxed in the countries that pay them. Five: the conversion of education and health into goods for those who can pay them – privatization is serious, more serious, much more serious is the mercentilization of social and cultural goods. Constant reduction of medical and health staff, services – and even Sergas hospitals – delivered as a public-funded business to private speculators who, above all, cheat – like Vigo, I will not insist. I'm getting drugs from serious sick people, chronic or elderly people, or attacks on their lives like hepatitis C – absolutely uplifting what happened in this House on one occasion: they passed all the borders of decency, of the most elemental sensitivity!–. All these are real crimes against human rights. The same as dismantling social services to dependents, diminished, the risk scandal, etc., etc. Six: Ethnicity – i.e., criminalism and even aggression – to the culture, heritage and language of the Greek people; but also to culture without more, to all cultural activity, creation and scientific research, i.e., inoculation of barbarism in society. It's their goal: the more beastly people as possible, the more they vote for alienation, then that's the job. Seven: ecocide, aggression to ecosystems and the environment, deprotection of natural spaces, from all fronts of utilitarian barbarism: eucalyptization, pandemic of fires, energy and transgenic crops, extermination of native seeds, contamination of rivers, rivers and atmosphere, wild mining. All aggravated by their laws of mountains, of the ground, of water, of the back; they were put here and what they do is make the problem worse. His plans of extractive activities, of coastal aquaculture, a whole battery prepared to accommodate a new macropolie in case the great depression ends – but fortunately you won't be in power. Remember, two years ago, this spokesperson described a diagnosis of the "state of mind and attitude of the various sectors of citizens"; he broke down two types: "those who feel powerless, despair and resign, and those who repent, self-organize and combat so much barbarity of power." And I risked predicting: these are coming the tide of civic revolution that will end with your ignorant and autocratic power. They took me back out of madness; but, in the spring following, that tide of civic revolution emerged at the state level in the European elections and, a year later – last spring, with the municipal elections – the tide of civic revolution was literally translated into Galicia in the great tides that struck with a vibrant democratic vigouring the rocks of the three great feuds that you still dominated in the arc that goes from the Gulf to the head of Sar. How successful is that of Mr. Núñez! Perhaps also the vice – he is vice, yes – that he had put his best advisor digitally to the command of his fellow composer, who had declared Ferrol the unexhaustible naval base of his army, and even proclaimed his mayor of the Coruña as the best mayor of Galicia. In addition to these three great tides, the tides also entered into the corporations of the other cities, including my mother-in-law, Vigo of the knightish drag – where, by the way, his gentle advisor to Fairy marked the worst outcome of the PP in the entire history of the city. Of course, he said he sent the best to the councils, then he took them from the councils to get back in place of the best; that is, the criterion is that, instead of the best people having to be in the government he presides, he has to be in the councils, or go to the front line, because for the Board, to rule, anyone is worth it so that he is. Together, there were up to seventy municipal candidatures of the same kind or analogous throughout Galicia, with citizen protagonists in variable formulas of popular unity. The next day of the municipalities, in the state OPA, the victories of the civic rebellion in the key of popular unity had names of unique localities: Barcelona in Catalonia, Madrid in the center of the state, Zaragoza in Aragon or Cadiz in Andalusia. Only with regard to Galicia did they conjugate in plural with a pen label: they were the yellow tides. Abraio general: "Look at you, not known as PP's feud, who was going to tell you!" These emerging forms of direct participation in the political-electoral confrontation of a citizenry full of elected representatives who, as they said, "do not represent us", constituted a new expression of the civic-political culture of the social left and republican values. They were the real engine of the leap forward that was operated on the occasion of the municipalities; this unusual triumph of civil infantry in front of the PP artillery and but the Media Brunette marked a clear inflection forward in the decomposition of the regime, reinforced by the fact that a marked constitutionalist has defined as authentic "constitutional process" which operates like tenacitys: propelled from below, legitimately, by civic rebellion, but also from above – only spuriously – by the performance of the PP in the legislative chambers, which actually leads to the derogating of the cardinal postulates and guaranteed clauses of the democratic and social state of right proclaimed in the 1978 Constitution, and thus subrespectively supplanting, the model of the initial democratic constitutionalism by the current oligarchical constitutionalism. I'll finish. We defeat that oligarchy, we disarm it from power, we restore democracy, we open once again a new cycle: here's the challenge we have before, the battle we have to wage in the next elections to the Courts of State. But to achieve this goal, we need to articulate the various actors who are working together, and jointly define the vertebral axes of an appropriate strategy for the people of Greece to break up as a sovereign political subject on the stage of these upcoming elections to the Courts. That is the first requirement, the presence and participation of the Greek people as a political subject in that fight for the democratic regeneration of society, because a people subject to colonial policy such as the Greek can rely only on a change of political cycle in which he himself is a sovereign decision-maker of his actions. Nothing has ever been received by the German people of eternal Spain, and it is well demonstrated that autonomy granted, a third century ago, has not helped them to solve their serious endemic problems, whether they are social, environmental, economic, cultural or linguistic. Even less to emancipate Galicia from her eternal servant condition. All of us who say we assume and defend the right to free decision of the peoples of nations in the sphere of state must, in congruently, assume that principle, that postulate. The Greek nation integrates all citizens and citizens who are Greeks and Greeks of a nation, who are not born, because those who live and work integrated in Galicia, assuming that integration, are as Greek as it was born in it. The Greek people are a community of origin and a culture community of gestured and forged throughout history over two millenniums ago, such as singing Mini and Mero, we were already around here when the Romans arrived. But in democratic forms, the Greek nation is the whole of citizenship that integrates it, and that is the political subject that holds national sovereignty. And that's what has to lead the fight in the political lecture, but this set is not a bag of sand, it's plural and internally diverse, from the structure of classes to the ideological aspect; therefore, the nation overlooks the social space of nationalism despite the fact that the political and civic nationalistic formations have been historically – and continue to be arresting – the primary tools of the effective construction of the Greek nation as a sovereign subject. Similarly, the socially insistent left overshadows the space of the various political forces that are claimed on the left, and since then the keys to arterling the various actors who are participating in this constitutional process, assuming the nation as a left key and most social; that is, popular and common citizen classes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-14-DSPG124.u25	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-14-DSPG124.u26	Each of them has its own ideology, its space for struggle and its perspective on the whole, but they're all necessary: municipal tides, civic and social platforms and movements active in civil society and political forces, confronted by the powers that attack ordinary citizens. I'm done. So, then, that self-organized citizens and political forces loyal to them together fight in a popular unity strategy to end this cycle; that is, to put an end to this corrupt and agonic political regime and start, both in Galicia and in the entire sphere of the state, a new cycle. We must rescue democracy, now being kidnapped – as I said – by the European Union's satraps and their footmen in Madrid and San Caetano. We must, yes, restore and reintroduce democracy today factually abolished within the European Union and make it a solidally republican matrix. "There is no other to you," as my rural neighbours say in these cases, and I subscribe and exhort everyone and everyone to put into work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-14-DSPG124.u27	Thank you, Mr. Beers. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Méndez Romeo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-14-DSPG124.u28	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. A year ago we said this government was exhausted. Last week you gave us reason by replacing half of the board. Today he recognizes that he has heard the cry of the streets, the cry of the people, and announces a social package. Welcome to rectification. For six years they have destroyed the hope of so many people beaten by the crisis; now they are claiming faith in the future while offering charity in the form of multiple subsidies. Very ecclesiastical, as well as his attack on equality that exemplifies in a government of four counselors on 11 members. [[Applause]] With all due respect, Mr. Feijóo, I must tell you that your credibility is lost. Too many unmet promises: job creation, investment, recovery. Having absolute majority in the state, in Galicia and in almost all local power, they decided to listen little and send a lot. They easily passed the laws and rules they wanted. You said for years that we lived above our possibilities and now many live under their needs. The gap between a beneficiary minority and a prejudiced majority is greater than before. They impoverished the middle class for the first time in modern history; they broke up with the principle that every generation should have more income and opportunities. Many Greeks today live worse than their parents, knowing that their children will be able to live even worse: with insufficient wages, precarious jobs, risky pensions and diminished benefits. Today, trying to study is not a guarantee of work or work guarantees sufficient wages to live. Not even paying taxes guarantees quality public services. After these years, Mr Feijóo, the economic situation remains uncertain; the situation at work, regrettable; the backwardness of the quality of life, enormous. I have to tell you once again that recovery will only be fair if it is recovery for most people. It is false that we have to choose between economics and well-being, as it is false to say that we cannot keep our social rights won. Rajoy, you and the People's Party have decided an economic policy that they called austerity. They said a country's economy was like a family that had to pay debts by reducing expenses, forgetting that public spending generates income for people, both direct and indirect. The crisis was paid by employees and self-employed by a double route: wage devaluation and restriction of welfare State benefits, which were already pensions, subsidies, medicines or scholarships. The results are notorious: today the gross profit of companies is higher than before the crisis, higher than before the entry into the euro, and, on the contrary, wages have recededed, do you know how much? Twenty years! They offered companies more lax working conditions and lower taxes, while wages suffered tax pressure. For every 100 euros of added value created, the working factor has lost 9. Productivity has improved by wage devaluation rather than by the capital investment of companies, which has not existed until this year. Internal devaluation is unsustainable, there is no future competing with lower wages and labour precariousness; there are even worse competitive countries, as it is not sustainable to trust all of the export recovery and favourable trade balance, except a strong bet on the added value, which does not exist. Nor can you be confused with the conjunctural effects of policies that you do not control: such as the depreciation of the euro, the fall in the price of oil or the help of the European Central Bank. You, after six years, are the president of unemployment. We have 250,000 unemployed, a quarter of a million, 90,000 more than in 2009. Percentage in these years – Mr. Feijóo, write down the data – unemployment in Galicia has increased twice as much as in Spain, and while we have lost twice as much – always percent – jobs. Today we have less active population, less busy population and less social security contributors than in 2009. We lost the fourth part of industrial jobs and the fourth part of agricultural jobs. In 90,000 Greek homes, Mr. Feijóo – 1 out of every 10 – live only unemployed. That's your portrait, that's your balance. It's not data, unemployment has faces, it's people who need housing, food and clothing, who have family burdens. They have rights and should have a hope that you deny them. Six out of ten don't get unemployment, more than half are long-lasting chronics and they've lost benefits, which you haven't talked about today. Risga reaches a minority – a six-month-long log. You've created a new class of excluded people. And today, instead of dealing with the causes of exclusion, it offers large-scale assistanceism. It's a vicious circle: there'll be smaller aids and more people stigmatized by poverty, than they can't get out. Despite propaganda, unemployment just yields. Last Banca report on the Greek economy. Literally he says that to get 10% unemployed, we would have to grow 16 more points. Mr. Feijó, with his politics it doesn't seem likely. Remember how we grew last year? Half-point, third part of Spain. And they tell us it'll take 16 to get 10% unemployed. Mr. Feijóo, how many years did he take people back? You lied seriously. They promised a job reform to end the precariousness and it was exactly the other way around. The new contracts are almost always precarious; the average duration of the contract, Mr Feijóo, is 54 days – less than two months – and the fourth part lasts less than a week, even in the administration you run, even in the Health Council – contracts for days, contracts for hours. Half of the employees on Thursday, half of those who work and are employed and Thursday, are in precarious condition; half of the employees in Greece earn less than a thousand euros and a third earn less than the minimum wage. Do you have any idea how you live with those wages and the resignations that these people have to make? He didn't talk about any of them this morning. Low wage levels and precariousness have consequences on pensions. You're liquidating the Social Security reserve fund and at the same time you're lowering your contributions, because, of course, wage bases are much lower. It's not hard to predict where we're headed. We have Spain's lowest pensions in Galicia, because you have frozen them by law and disengaged them from the IPC, thus remaining purchasing power. And pensioners are an extreme example of their insensitivity: two years protesting here to make you assume that you should start correcting a scandalous situation, and today thousands of unsolved cases still remain. We spend less on dependence than most of the autonomous communities and, however, we have a bigger waiting list, 27,000 people. Mr. Feijóo, only this year have a thousand people died with the right recognized, without getting the allowance. This is an innovative administrative scheme: rights are recognised, but the perception of the right is endlessly postponed. Do you think people can live with recognition of the right instead of receiving a benefit? They're favoring the privatization of all social services, and they're also concentrating on four companies -- yes, that's right -- and while they're preventing non-profit social initiative entities that can manage them. They reduced the demand by personally reviewing the beneficiaries and creating a true bureaucratic maze to discourage the new applicants, cut 800 jobs in social centres, lowered budgets and raised rates. Consequence? People withdraw their families from residences and day centers. Mr. Feijóo, the ratios of residential squares for disabled persons, or for day centres, or for senior residences, are worse than the average state. But how can you come here and talk to that disparagement of social spending? And I'm just telling you some data about the social situation, they sum up in one: social spending has dropped by 1,500 million euros a year; and that's why many Greeks vote with their feet, march around the country. They are basically new and qualified people, and so the demographic indentation is worsened. And you want to brake by recovering a little baby check. But you don't remember how Zapatero was viliping for similar measures? [[Murmurs.]] Mr. Feijóo, the People's Party is bannered by inequality, we could say it's your sign of identity, the feature that best defines it. They made a regressive tax reform, according to the highest incomes – take note of the data –. In Galicia low and medium incomes pay more taxes than the state average, and yet high incomes pay less taxes than the state average. Is that what you call it? Now they're going to download two points in the IRPF, will it be because there's elections or because they don't need income? Can you explain how many doctors will stop hiring that savings? Or how many squares in day centers will stop meeting? And, by the way, how is that download going to be?, of the total of the IRPF statement or only of the first 12,000 euros? Is it linearly lower for those who earn the most and those who earn the least? And is nothing lower for those who don't have to pay for the IRPF, who with the wages I mentioned earlier are many, but who, however, bear taxes, bumps, new taxes on the bill of light and gas, water and waste, on fuels, on drugs, on health and social services, and who also bear two VAT increases? That's what you call fiscally what? In other communities – to illustrate it – this is done progressively. Andalucía, for example, will reduce two points to all incomes below 60,000 euros, but will adapt the steps to maintain progress. You, however, deepen the inequality. By the way, you should explain how your accounts will match if you increase expenses, reduce income and can't issue debt. Fiscally, in addition to injustices, you're erratic, you've increased taxation on housing, you've eliminated downgradation by purchase and you've increased the catastrophic value, you've reviewed values with maximum rates. His fiscal policy is summed up in: harshness with the honest, employed and pensioners and kindness to the fraudsters, who are amnesty. [[Applause]] You, Mr. Feijóo, don't believe in equal opportunities. The third part of the Welsh people aged 25 to 34 have only primary or compulsory education, ESO education. Few countries present worse data. To converge with the leading countries in Europe, we would need to create 250,000 new jobs for technicians and professionals, which require at least the level of Bachelorship or Higher Vocational Training. However, they are not taking advantage of the very high unemployment rate to increase qualification. You chose something much simpler but less useful, LOMCE; an ideological law in which you avoided discussing problems and solutions, in which you rejected social or political consensus. You have implemented what does not exist in Europe, the revals, and you have seen what works there, the orientation towards people's success. They created a basic vocational training without a euro for equipment or material, and even without regulating the final title. It's the clearest way to say it's useless. The Dual FP – from which you spoke today – in Galicia is only 1% of the total population of the state. We have 6%, Mr. Feijó. And as for language teaching, say what you say, Mr. Feijóo, the latest data from Mr. Rajoy's Ministry are despicable for this community. Lea, read the report. We have twice as many early school dropouts as in most advanced countries. Yes, less than in communities where there is immigration and other problems, but much more than in autonomous teaching communities. We have three times as much school failure as in the OECD, which means that, in addition to wasting resources, we are abandoning a very high number of students, who – it is not random – come from the weaker socioeconomic levels. It is false, Mr Feijóo – I say it roundly – that we should choose between equity and excellence. We can and must offer better opportunities for equality with the same measures tested in other countries. Look, the best indicator on this topic is the number of scholarships. With Government Zapatero the number of scholarships increased by 76%; with Government Rajoy the state scholarships in Galicia dropped by 21% on account and 6% on scholarships. The Welsh scholarships of his government dropped by 23%, and half of that budget is not executed. Data is stored. Mr Feijóo, the hemerotheques are full of their statements and promises of investments, economic opportunities, job creation. The published data makes it wrong, not just those of Eurostat today. In 2014, foreign investment in Galicia dropped by 77%, discounting value or instrument holding entities. Thirteenth place in Spain, with 0.3%, while in Spain it grew almost 10%. That indicates we're not attracted from outside. In the European Union's competitiveness index, we are in position 182. Last week a World Bank report stressed that the facilities for doing business in Spain are worse than in Macedonia and, within Spain, Galicia is the one that has the most difficulties. What used the laws you brought here to pass with your majority and where did you refuse to listen to the amendments made to them by opposition groups asking them at least rigor? These European reports at the same time underline what we should do: to increase the penetration of new technologies into production and to improve the quality of the labour market and the R & D effort. You, instead of following these European guidelines, hire companies to capture investments, assuming that the 18 million euros awarded without an invitation to tender to the Confederation of Entrepreneurs did not do any good. In R & D, say what you say, they cut off scandalously, as Mr. Rajoy does, in a sense contrary to what the whole of Europe is doing. Besides, the excess of propaganda ultimately turns against you. You published each year, in collaboration with the Ministry of Industry, a programme of aid to the industrialization of the districts of Ferrol, Eume and Ortegal, for three years. They announced EUR 137 million in aid. Do you know how many were granted? They granted 13 million, 10%. And if I had to go into the analysis of the aid granted, there would be examples of summits of so-called "admie capitalism." But I want to be positive. Look, there's a chance we shouldn't waste as a country. The European Commission is preparing an economic stimulus plan with €300 billion in three years. Galicia is estimated to be 1.5 billion euros. I make a proposal to you: we design with the contest of social agents, with the competition of experts, a global plan that sets priorities and objectives. We thus avoid what happened on his day with the strategic plan Galicia 2010 that this group denounced here and that, unfortunately, time came to give us reason. It's in his hand, call the social partners, call the experts. Let's do something more than paperwork. You just assumed the failure of agricultural policy. He's been listening for years, because, of course, he doesn't like to pay attention to what they're saying. But the sector has been saying for a long time that each and every one of the agricultural subsectors is less competitive today, that they have less jobs and that they drag the same structural problems. And something else, that when they had problems, they found no support in a bureaucratic board, reduced to managing European funds and without any strategic guidance. We defend what you deny. We defend that if we have more than half of the Spanish production, more than 60% of the livestock, while the rest of Spain imports milk, we have to lead a strategy of protection of our market and we have to do it with the sector, but above all we have to lead it, because in addition to economic value is the main axis of vertebration in the rural world. [[Applause]] You, knowing that, for example, to reduce production costs in the milk sector, it's essential to lower those costs, which is essential to increase the agricultural area by 50%, as experts say, it took six years to approve the Agricultural Structure Improvement Act; no contribution or suggestion has been accepted. Congratulatingly, they didn't do anything to apply it either. The same is true of forest policy, subordinated, if not fagked, by the counter-fire device, in the prejudice of the productive sector. 30% of the forest area is unproductive. The property minifond makes it difficult to manage efficiently, and in front of other countries, which have a very high certification rate, in Galicia is very low. There are no tax incentives, no investment loans or investment funds, etc. In fishing, unprecedented conflict in demand for fairer distributions of scarce fishing opportunities. TACs and quotas are insufficient to guarantee fleet activity, whether in the siege or in the steering wheel. The agreement with third countries resulted in the expulsion of the Mauritanian fleet and the impossibility of going to Morocco. In marqueo, the episodes of biotoxins produce health alerts in the mexillon sector, mainly due to the cuts in research funds; fishing authorisations, abandoned; the lack of health controls on imported bivalves, invasive species and parasites causes production falls and closures, as now in the bank of the Arousa River; the confrereries bear the delay in paying the aid for surveillance and technical assistance. Look, this morning you assumed you were paying soon I don't know what. Here's an example. Only – it's an incisus – in Santiago's trials there are 50 million euros in claims to the Galician Union only for health issues. That's what it calls payment efficiency. Ending fishing: no aquaculture performance on land and, in employment, the fifth of the members of the sea and 600 seafarers disappeared. His government, moreover, works little and bad, is very inefficient. You cried out against the debt they inherited, you said it many times. They were 4 billion euros when they arrived. You've increased it by 250 percent, up to 10 billion euros, to the one that needs to add 1,500 million euros from Vigo hospital and some other cages. But besides, the budget execution – i.e., what you really do with that budget last year – was the worst in Spain, five points less than the average. Just that you worked as the rest of the Spanish administration, the German GDP would be equal to the Spanish average. As they didn't, we had the worst growth data in Spain. We've been on minimum investments for six years. They paralyzed all sorts of projects on roads; an endless list at all cardinal points. Summary in data: bids downloaded at 93%. They forgot – yes, after advertising – the Move Plan, where there would be multi-millionaire investments and thousands of jobs. Just like they forgot, after publishing it, the wind competition. You support the slowdown in AVE, which is delaying investments and which today has undefined schemes. They haven't advanced in railway access to ports of general interest. The airports are still in the usual decoy. And, after six years, you should explain why we have the most expensive fuels than the rest of Spain, as a result of the recharging of the Union, or why the fares of the A-9 motorway are the most expensive in Spain for carriers and travellers. That's why they extended the concession until 2048? They're not about to improve people's living and working conditions. They eliminated routes and frequencies in public transport, indefinitely delayed the light metro of cities, paralysed intermodality – there is no action at present – they did not integrate urban and urban transport lines into any metropolitan area or created intermodal stations. They made a road law and the following year they completely changed it. They passed the Territorial Management Guidelines and three years later they were unable to approve any of the planned plans, which are not even drafted. Now they're proposing an insufficient ground law that doesn't fix the situation of the thousands of people who live in the traditional urban centers. Look, the Rajoy Government has legalized in the new Law of 11 back areas on the Spanish coast, even a few more than dubious historical character, and yet they have forgotten all the Welsh. And you applauded. It's hard to think that you work for the general interest, not for a sum of particular interests. In these years of the presidency his 12,000 Galician families were defeated for paying rent. You, on the other hand, have not started any performances, no construction programs, nor have you developed the National Housing Plan, even abandoned the rehabilitation of the existing park. And, if we talk about health, the unrest with their policy is constant: a multitude of massive protests, like they didn't face any other problem; conflicts by cutting rights, by reducing human and clinical means, by privatization. When you arrived there was a model system on a global scale that was completely financially sustainable, but, as they were committed to opening the doors to business, they were rapidly transforming it. Today health is less public, it's less universal, because it's also reduced beneficiaries, it's less free. They are the consequences of having eliminated 400 million euros a year and of reducing staffing; the consequences of privatizing large-scale services and introducing coopies. Even if they restrict access to medicines that are essential for hepatitis, even vaccines! Mr. Feijó, I was going to Portugal to buy my vaccines. And now he announces diaper checks while he bans the hiring of pediatricians. Let's be serious. [[Applause]] They tripled the cost of Vigo's hospital, an operation in which they're only going to win the law firm, lose the patients, lose the beams, lose the professionals and lose the administration. You said they had a communication problem in Vigo. It's wrong, the citizens understand you perfectly, and that's why they're manifesting themselves. On the other hand, private medicine, despite the crisis, has moments of glory. Grow up in politics, grow up in premiums, create new services. Read industry statistics, including sector reports. How could it not be if citizens are assuming that the public sector no longer meets their needs? Look, Mr Feijóo, an alternative health policy is possible, all experts say it, recovering the level of economic and human resources, ending with privatizations, respecting professionals and assuming public funding for hospital drugs. In the fight against corruption we need more than a legislative change. They must change their attitudes. Remember what he said about transparency, Bentham: "The more I look at you, the better you behave." We're still waiting for documentation or explanations of matters that even affect their personal environment, or the ruling Party; matters that are in juridical summaries full of surprising statements. Jefferson said that the art of ruling is reduced to the art of being honest. Honesty is also to reveal the interests present in health policy; for example, in the contests of hospitals or ambulances or the interests of the adjudicate companies of works and concessions with which you then share the table – for example in the Ferrol EDAR –. Your people have been asking you to show up for a year, and you've been running away from engagement for a year while you've been posing as Rajoy's successor in truces and tribunes. Even today it abounded in that ambiguity. I understand your resistance, you know better than anyone the huge mortgages you leave. Which is not understandable, Mr. Feijóo, and that you had chosen to act as the political leader rather than as president. In every problem these years where the country's needs were demanding its own solutions, you yielded as the government delegate and not the leader of a country. Listen, in electrical reform, in milk, in siege fishing, in the Law of the Back, he abandoned his fellow citizens to align himself with his political group. In none of these problems he tried to propose solutions, to join wills, to conquer the future. It's sad to say that, but any of the previous presidents had a clearer idea of the singular character of Greek autonomy. Because it's not enough to be called historical nationality, you have to exercise as such. With you, Galicia is in lower places in the state, it has no weight, it's irrelevant in state politics. You're a national leader of the People's Party. Your party's territorial policy is reduced to the Constitutional Court. Government Aznar was twice as often as government Zapatero. Well, in four years, the Rajoy Government has been more often than the Zapatero Government. It's impossible for a complex and plural state to function in the courts, I think that's easy to understand. We understand that it is difficult to understand with governments engaged in breaking up. But since these governments are legitimized by polls, there are only political solutions based on dialogue, cooperation and mutual interest. Replace them with the force of the law, it's not the best way. Remember Montesquieu's saying: "One thing is not fair for being a law, it must be law because it's fair." Breaking comes from the Catalan Government, it doesn't come from society. It's a community that represents 20% of GDP, fifth, and 16% of the population. They deserve more than institutional harassment. He said Azaña – and he knew well what he was talking about because he had to live two proclamations of independence in Catalonia, first with Maciá and then with Companys – that "a smart policy can create satisfactory forms of national coexistence using creative reason, which is not contrary to Spanish tradition." However, the PP opts to break the bridges of dialogue that had decades and that now, as Pedro Sánchez said, there will be to rebuild on a more polarized and more distrustful stage. Coations and threats will never be the solutions. It's not enough to explain the cold outside, it's got to make you feel the heat inside. Mr. Rajoy... Mr. Feijóo, finished... would be perfectly applicable to Mr. Rajoy's speech. [[Laughter]] Until that time you're nothing more than a faithful follower of your row boss. [[Applause]] [[Murmurs.]] Look, Mr. Feijóo, you've been looking back a long time. Montaigne wrote – and I suppose he will agree with this – that "we may regret not living in better times but cannot escape from the present." The past is the territory of history, politics is made in the present. You speak for your own and for the privileged minority you want to be part of. We don't want that society. The socialists defend a policy with different priorities, which leaves no one behind. You said it this morning, and yet you are literally leaving behind hundreds of thousands of people and entire generations, especially new people. We want a policy that ends with precariousness and wage devaluation, by derogating labour reform, which supports industry, with more funding and innovation – which you do not do – to compete in added value and not in low wages, with more educational expenditure, more scholarships, better vocational training, and more effective employment policies that support job reintegration. We want a policy that returns citizens in the form of public services and benefits that they bring in jobs and taxes. Today is the reverse, you devalue us, and you're also cutting back on their benefits. And we want a country with progressive fiscal reform and no amnesty. Mr President, Galicia needs another policy. Today it has been shown that it has not been or will not be possible with you. That's why I'm telling you it's irrelevant to stay or leave. Your time is over, it's time to change, ladies. I said.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-14-DSPG124.u29	Mr Puy Fraga has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group in Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-14-DSPG124.u30	With the coming, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr President, members of the Government – with a special greeting to the new three advisers who attend a debate in this House for the first time, three advisers, in addition to the three who have just won the municipal elections loosely in their villages, and two of them to exercise the mayorship; the other is not, in fact, because the People's Party is so cohesive to Galicia that even cohesion the opposition so as not to allow the People's Party to rule. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, we have met today, as we have been used to since various legislations, and for the first time in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the House which we have just reformed, to debate the general political situation of our own autonomous community in Galicia. We are therefore called to debate, that is, to discuss and contrast different points of view, the views that the different political forces that represent the citizenship of Galicia have on the political and social situation of our community today, at the end of 2015. And, of course, to talk about what we want to do in the future. And we are at a time relevant to a general election that will condition the future of constitutional Spain, which is participating in the European construction and, therefore, also the future of autonomous Galicia, an autonomous Galicia that leads to improving the well-being of its people thanks to self-government and political stability with which it has been exercised for thirty years, and particularly in the last seven years, which were the years in which we have lived the most intense crisis of the last century; a crisis that has shaken our society, which has shaken the Greek society, Spain and Europe, although we know that unfortunately it has not done it in the same way or everywhere and has affected all people alike. But before we proceed to contextualize, in order to be able to assess on behalf of the People's Group, the majority group of this House which I honour to represent in this debate, before we proceed to contextualize the situation, allow me to think before necessary in a parliamentary context where the word "liar" or the corresponding appeal of "lierious", is usually used with imprecise generosity. The great philosopher, political and author of The origins of totalitarianism, Hannah Arendt... – by the way, in this work, The origins of totalitarianism, speaks of the two totalitarian forces of the 20th century, those which denounce, Nazism and Stalinism; of the latter we do not hear, in the interesting Marxist explanation of history that we hear in one of the interventions of the spokespersons, which are the causes of this totalitarian regime –, Hannah Arendt wrote an interesting and beautiful essay entitled Truth and Politics, in which addresses the relationship between these two apparently contradictory concepts. [[Applause]] She wrote it overwhelmed by some of the reactions that had led to the publication of her most known work, Eichmann in Jerusalem, where she introduced the famous expression about the triviality of evil, with which she described the shocking actions the Nazis had committed in a holocaust of what she herself, who was Jewish, had managed to escape in the early 1930s. In that essay, Arendt part of the recognition that no one has ever doubted that truth and politics have never gone too well, but distinguishes between what is the truth in the philosophical sense – that is, what goes back to the Jewish notion inherited by Western culture, which contributes the truth to divine revelation, and that later was replaced at the time of the Illustration by the truth revealed by reason – of factual truth, or indeed, that is, the acts and events that actually occur as a result of the actions of men and women who live together, and that is why it is a basically political truth. In that essay – and I quote literally – Hannah Arendt says: "The facts and opinions that must be kept separate are not antagonistic to each other, they belong to the same field. The facts give rise to opinions, and opinions inspired by various passions and interests can differ widely and be legitimate while respecting factual truth." By setting an example of what Hannah Arendt means, we can say that it was an opinion that was the social pressure that she managed, among other things, to solve the problem of preference through the line of arbitration, or that it was the social pressure that she managed to get returned emigrants to recover all their expenses. The real fact is, by ruling the People's Party in Galicia and Spain, returned migrants received without any charge, without any penalty, without any interest, all that they paid improperly, and the current reality is that 95% of the people who had a preference, less than 5% who decided to apply, have recovered all the savings included in the preferences. And our opinion on that is that it's a pity that this situation happens but that we help solve it. And demagogy, of course, is to say that this party that wants to sink these people is to steal them, which is what we hear here every day. [[Applause]] What is the factual reality in mid-October 2015 in Galicia? Objectively the situation has changed to much better since the same debate took place in 2014, also in relation to the debate we had in 2013, and obviously not as much as we would like, but it has improved much in relation to what was said in October 2012, which was that Spain and Galicia were about to be rescued and even Feijó had called the elections so that people would vote without knowing the fact of the European and national ransom of the Autonomous Community. So the situation is better, and that certainly undoes the speech of all those aggressors who over the last few years were saying that things would go much worse. Some data. At the expansion stage – 2000 to 2008 – Galicia became the leading autonomous community in terms of GDP per capita – it had 77.6 of the average in Spain, it was only then Extremadura and Andalucía – to be placed in the 12th position in the year 2014. We have 87.5 of the average of Spain 100 in terms of per capita GDP. We moved on to the communities of Canarias, Murcia and Castile-A Mancha, and we went ahead of them. In the same period 2000-2014, when Galicia went from 77.6 per capita GDP to a per capita GDP of 87.5 of the Spanish average, in the Autonomous Community of Andalusia – and I set it as an example because it is the only one that has been ruled all this time on the left, socialists, Left United and some variants, such as now that it incorporates the moderate left government as is Citizens – per capita GDP has converged nothing but half a point, from 74.2 to 74.7. We did it in 9.9 points. Galicia came out of the economic recession in 2014, and now accumulates seven consecutive quarters with positive inter-monthly growths. IGE quarterly accounts. After a weak growth in 2014, which pushed him away from the national average of growth, in 2015 growth accelerated closer to the state average, and some study services, such as BBVA, predicted that we would grow more than Spanish average in 2016. The growth of 2015 is based, from the demand perspective, in addition to a better behavior of household end-consumption spending, which is still below the Spanish average, on the best investment behavior, with an annual growth rate in the second quarter of 2015 of 7.2, and of the external sector, which remains closer to the balance than the external sector of the Spanish ensemble. And on the supply side, and despite the continued decline in the weight of the construction sector, we have maintained the relative weight relative to the industrial sector crisis, thanks mainly to the growth in 2015 of the manufacturing industry – which grows far above the Spanish average – and the primary sector, while the weight of the service sector is increasing, according to what the IGE says in its annual and quarterly economic accounts. In the industrial sector, the IPI – the industrial production index – shows a better behavior than Spain’s 3.8 compared to 3.3. Official INI data. In all branches, intermediate goods, equipment and consumption, in the only one where we have a worse balance in the industrial production index, by the way, it is in energy production, which is so dependent on our case of meteorological circumstances that it, in turn, undoes the myth of autonomous capacity in the energy sector that our autonomous community has. And despite the obvious dynamism shown by the figures, and recognizing that the growth rates of the Greek economy are still below the Spanish economy, it should be emphasized that what these indicators reflect is a more balanced growth, both in terms of comparison with the rest of Spain and in terms of dynamic relation to the previous evolution of the Greek economy. This is recognized, for example, by the authors of the last socio-economic scenario report drawn up by the Galician Economic Forum. The data are in Galicia better, with regard to Spain, as far as the external sector is concerned – exports are rising twice as much in Galicia, which we have lowered the trade deficit – in Spain has risen – and this directly affects, as you know, the reduction in the overall indebtedness of our economy, which facilitates investment, and therefore we also maintain an investment rate similar to that of Spain. As a result of growth, we are reducing unemployment rates. In the second quarter of the year it was 20% – EPA data – 2.5 points below the Spanish average, and the difference between the year 2014 when the occupation still gave negative data – less than 0.8–, the occupation grew by 0.5 and 1.9 respectively in the first two quarters of this year. Social Security membership data are even more positive, with increases in the number of affiliates since April 2014. As for the year, the average membership of Social Security has increased to 2.1%. And the unemployment rate, mainly as a result of the loss of active population linked mainly to the demographic pyramid, has decreased since 2013, with falls exceeding 9% in recent months. The annual variation in unemployment recorded, according to the recent data published in September, was in Galicia a decrease of 9.4, compared to 7.9 in the Spanish average, and this despite being a traditionally bad month, for seasonal reasons, as compared to the number of unemployed registered. And with regard to wages, it should be recalled that according to the official statistics of the IGE, pay per employee is increasing the first two quarters of the year – they are the last known data – at a rate of 0.8 and 0.4, respectively, above the average of Spain, which is 0.8 and 0.2. These are the official IGE data in the quarterly accounts. The economic situation of households measured in terms of income per unit of consumption, which is the variable that is commonly used to develop the main indicators of poverty and inequality, because it makes it possible to compare households with different numbers of people and with components of different ages and needs: children, older ones etc., it also shows, according to the latest known data, symptoms of recovery, after the obvious and obvious damage caused by the crisis. According to data from IGE, INE and Eurostat in 2013, for the first time since 2009, the average income per unit of consumption increased in Galicia, 1.5%, while Spain continued to fall -1.5%. And what is most relevant, in the whole of the years of the crisis, according to the official data published for the period 2008-2013, while Spain's average annual rate of variation was -2%, in Galicia we endured much better, with a drop seven times less, of 0.3%. As a result, Galicia remains in a better position than Spain, and even though the European Union average of 27 members, the main indicators of inequality published by Eurostat, INE, or IGE, as shown by the indices drawn up in this regard, which, as you know, are two: the Gini index, which gives a zero value when there is perfect equality and a value of 1 when there is a perfect inequality. Galicia was located in 2013 – which is the last known data – in 0.286, below the EU average at 27, which is 0.3, and far from Spain, 0.347. It is true that the crisis has increased inequality in Galicia, of course it is true! The index was 0.272 in the year 2008 – 14 percent less. But it's also true that inequality has increased less in Galicia than in the rest of Spain, where there has been a rise of 18ths. A similar scenario shows the income distribution index of S80 and S20, which measures the income accumulated by the richest 20% and compares them with those that have the lowest 20% income. While in Galicia the income accumulated by 20% higher in 2008 was 4.5 than the income accumulated by those who had less income, since 2008 in Europe that rate has remained stable, in Galicia increased by 0.5, but in Spain it rose by almost 1 point –0.9. As a result of all this, the risk rate of poverty, according to INE, despite having increased slightly during the crisis, remains in Galicia far from the Spanish average, at 69% of the average 100 for Spain. And even further away from the autonomous communities that have enjoyed left-wing governments for many years, like Andalusia, which is 150. Sustained, by the way, by whom in Galicia criticizes how much the People's Party has done on this land, although we ourselves consider, of course, that it is not enough what has been done and we believe that much more needs to be done. These data describe the real situation of our autonomous community, and that's why they're at their disposal if they want the official paintings published by the aforementioned bodies. They are obviously susceptible to valuation or interpretation. Now you, who haven't seen the crisis, don't want them either, nor do you know them, which makes it especially difficult to debate what suits Galicia in the future. They have, of course, the right to interpret them as they want, but we interpret them as what they are: as an obvious symptom that we abandon the recession, that we have done it in better conditions than most autonomous communities, but they are also a symptom that we have to recognize and work, because we know that the growth and recovery they see are not enough for the whole of Galician society, and all the families that continue to suffer the drama of unemployment and the difficulties to come at the end of the month, are finally overcoming a crisis that still goes on between us. Of course, the merit is of all the Greeks, fundamentally it is a success of the Galician society, but something would have to see the Government! At the outset, this government has made the fight against the crisis the only one and the main of its priorities, and not like other governments, the excuse for promoting a serious institutional and social crisis such as the one that unfortunately suffers from the one that is so appreciated by us Catalan society. By the way, a sovereignist process that advocates the rupture of our constitutional framework, which some too, on the long historical journey, forgets that it was approved by referendum of the Spanish people with a vast majority of more than 80%; of course, with some campaigning for no, but broadly, more than in the middle of Spain, also defeated in Galicia. Well, our constitutional framework – which some want to break – is precisely the framework that guarantees self-government – as the president said – but it is also the framework that guarantees solidarity between people and solidarity between territories, and we do not understand how it can be supported from Galicia, by those who are supposedly the only beacon – unique and exclusive – the defence of Galicia, a process that, according to the known works – the most recent of Professor Lago and Professor Fernández Leicega – implies to Galicia a direct loss of annual income of between 800 and 1,100 million euros a year. It's a curious way to defend Galicia's interests. We will continue to defend constitutional Spain. And by the way, in the famous debate between Azaña and Ortega, both of them coincided on a question about Catalonia's autonomy, and it was that of sovereignty and not talk, because sovereignty lived in the Spanish people. I say it as an extension of information so timely that the socialist spokesperson did what Azaña thought about Catalonia's autonomy. Ladies and gentlemen, as far as sovereignty is concerned, Galicia needs no more problems than she already has. We have a lot of problems, we have to keep working to solve them, but fortunately you don't have others, and, among other things, we don't have the problem of sovereignty. Just as we have a lot of problems in this Parliament, I do not think it's good that they bring us some problem, outside of Parliament, of political parties that are in Parliament. Because, Mr. Méndez, speaking of honesty today in the press, the truth is that one gives the impression that it is best not to mention certain issues. [[Applause]] The Government has faced a reduction in more than €2,000 million in recent years, essentially maintaining basic welfare spending, and without fail to support the productive sectors. Let's talk about health. On the general evolution of health expenditure, solvent academic studies have begun to appear, quantifying the impact on health expenditure of adjustment policies developed between 2009 and 2013. I'm going to read you the conclusion that in a recent article – just published – professors Eduardo Bandrés and Rosa González, who concluded their analysis of the impact on health spending of adjustment policies with a sentence that prays: "In general terms, autonomous communities with greater deficit problems have had to make more severe adjustments in their health services. Castile-A Mancha, Valencian Community, Catalonia or Andalusia thus appear with significant reductions in most of the indicators handled in this work. On the other hand, the Basque Country, Madrid, Castile and León or Galicia have much smoother adjustments. This is the academic balance of the impact of restrictions on health expenditure. You can say what you want; one thing is the data, the facts, and another the opinions. We respect all opinions, what we like is that they are based on data. For Galicia in particular, data from 2009 to 2013 show a lower reduction than average staff costs. In the total amount of public health production, it is reduced in Galicia than in the average of Spain. And the only thing Galicia's spending on health is in private production. This is publicizing these teachers, and you're still saying that we're privatizing health care when Galicia is under the average private production of public health goods throughout the crisis. I understand that these factual realities can be uncomfortable for some, because they break their opinion, but what I mean is that they are homogeneous data, treated by well-known university researchers, who obviously contradict the basis of the thesis that we are here to exterminate public services. But it's not that data that's the only data that contradicts the speech of the opposition. We know recently the report on the health services of the autonomous communities that the Federation of Public Health Associations publishes annually; a movement, an association, which I suppose is precisely not characterized by being subordinate to the People's Party. According to its September 2015 report, it turns out that, according to this association, in the overall assessment made of Galician public health, we moved from the number 11 position we had in 2009 – when the public health defenders ruled – to the number 7. I mean, we're much better, and less bad than we're not in favour of public health! [[Applause]] When the left one ruled, according to the Public Health Defense Association, Galicia was at 14-15. Ever since the People's Party ruled...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-14-DSPG124.u31	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-14-DSPG124.u32	...health, according to that report, varies between posts 6 and 8. On the opinion of the users of this report – I see that Mrs Acuña knows it perfectly, so she might at times recognize this data – that 73.2% of the Greeks and the Greeks believe that health works well or quite well. [[Madam Acuña do Campo speaks words that are not perceived.]] And we're the fourth autonomous community in the ranking, only we're outnumbered by Navarre, Asturias and the Basque Country. 82% believes that the attention received in the various public devices is good or very good, and we are the sixth autonomous community. That's why 83% of the population choose public health for their hospitalization. And on waiting lists. By the way, as the president also said this morning, we are in second place in the percentage of people who are treated in primary care in 24 hours; and in the first place, with 12.8%, in the percentage of people who indicate that they have improved waiting lists. [[Murmurs.]] A maintenance of services that have also been extended with new rights for patients – such as choice of doctor, maximum waiting times, etc. – and which have been extended with new benefits: 30% more surgical interventions since 2009; electronic prescription; telephone consultation; early detection programs of colon and breast cancer; lower waiting lists – reducing surgical interventions due to very severe causes from 30 to 16 days –; renewal of new technology teams – TACs, resonances, accelerators – or providing some hospitals – such as Lugo – with this instrument to provide the service, as we have always said. We also built new infrastructures, not only Vigo's; I remind you that in addition to this, we are proposing enlargements of Burela, Ourense and Salnes, apart from everything that has been done by endowing Lugo's, and next – as announced this morning – the Ferrol hospital. It's like a balance we can make in education. The results of the German students – as you know from the PISA Report – improved between 2009 and 2012, which are the dates of the two comparative studies. The data on equity in the education system, according to the BBVA report with PISA data carried out by the IVIE – the Valencian Institute of Economic Research – is one of the most prestigious institutes in Spain, it turns out that Galicia, with 106 points, is the only autonomous community that has homologable educational results with the rest of the most advanced world, because, in fact, we are at the head of the educational system's equity. You continue with the matter that we're privatizing public goods. Official data from the Ministry of Education – the latest available data are from the 2012-2013 course. Public expenditure in concerted education – which is what you understand by privatization. In Galicia 10% of the total, very similar to autonomous communities like Andalusia, 9.9, or Asturias, 10.9. In fact, we're in the right half of two communities governed by the Socialist Party, far below the state average; the state average is 14.2%. And, of course, far from what nationalists rule: Basque Country, 24%, Catalonia, 17%. Again, that discourse that we privatize and undo public teaching is, with data in hand, spoken, because we continue to be the autonomous community with less student-professor ratio, 10.3; with the lowest rate of interinternity, 10.1; we continue to implement and extend the new technologies – the Abalar already reaches 52,000 students –; it continues to increase the foreign language plan –90,000 Welsh pupils will study in three languages. The FP student, after creating a hundred cycles and launching dual vocational training, increased by 55%. The university has the frozen rates at the lowest prices in all of Spain one more year. The university has signed a plan – and that's why we congratulate our old bandmate Román Rodríguez – is the only autonomous community with a consensual funding plan, for the next period, for 2,400 million euros, which implies 18% more. Logically, the Rectors, if we could give them -- that we would give them 30 percent -- would be happier, but they recognize the effort that they're making on board. In school lunches, 78% of students have free of charge, and 6.4% pay a euro for the school dining room. There are 60,000 management squares in the Union, that is, 23%, about 11,000 more than when he ruled the bipartite. And all of this also favouring the acquisition of textbooks; 70% of students benefited from the program of solidarity free. School transport continues to serve 93,000 users. There are new infrastructures. And most importantly, the dropout rate – which was in 2009 at 25.6% – is in 2014 at 18.5%; and in the first quarter of 2015 it has already fallen to 16.7%. In social affairs we created more than 7,800 public squares. By the way, of residences – when we took the Government in 2009 – there were 899 squares and today there are 1,337; that is, 48% more. Mr. Méndez says people abandon them. We're the only ones we've received are requests to enter and to create more squares in residences. But we have different information or different knowledge. In total, in children's schools squares, the offer of publicly funded squares from 0 to 3 years – as the president said this morning – allows us to say that today Galicia reaches for the first time the coverage recommended by the European Union, which accounts for 33% of squares; that is 33 squares per 100 children between 0 and 3 years. We've increased resources for inclusion. Risga, which is a large credit – something that has sometimes been denied here – already exceeds 50 million euros, exceeding this year's budget. And the new recruitment order – which is most important because it comes from agreements with unions, social agreements – duplicates last year's budget in 2015; that is, we're talking about 1,100 employment contracts that have their origin or are receiving people who have access to work through Risk. This is fundamental to us, because there is no better social protection than ensuring that people can work. [[Applause]] In the dependency in Galicia – to go to budget data – were spent in 2009 126 million euros. Today, with EUR 2 billion less public budget, 300 million is spent. Is that what it allows? For if the ratio of care increased, it is currently 75% of the people who already have the right to be beneficiaries, while in 2009 it was 35%. I'm not going to stop much more in other programs like deletions, etc. But the fact is that social spending is the clear and obvious effort of this government, without which we would have left the productive sectors. I think that support for the dairy sector is out of the question, not only for promoting the agreement at the state level, but also for the more than 150 million euros, about which the then Middle Rural Counsellor, Rosa Quintana, has made it easier for the sector we've been in 2015. In the fishing area, remember that, according to the official Galician fishing data, the economic value of fresh fishing generated in Galicia exceeded 430 million euros in 2014, i.e. 4,5 % more than in 2013. The fresh fish and seafood released in 2014 was 14% more than in 2013. And we'll keep fighting logically for the future of these sectors, but they're really not bad. Since the yards aren't bad; they're not as bad as the yards were a year ago. Here – as we say – reality is denied. I was a little surprised when I heard that no representative of the Socialist Party had been to the boat in Ferrol of the fleet. It must have been that they didn't want to meet the reality that he wasn't so small about the boat. But the fact is that there are already two fleets in progress, which there are more contracts: the engineering and equipment of Turkey's LHD, the maritime action ship; 29 jackets for Iberdrola, 5 macrostructures for Statoil... is that enough? [[Laughter]] No, but it's something. [[Murmurs.]] When we got to the government, Ferrol had zero contracts in his wallet. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] You, despite all this data, tend to say that we do it wrong and that the fault is austerity. Victoria Camps, a well-known philosopher, was asked recently that she thought if she was deteriorating the value, the sense, that she had been pejoratively used the word austerity. And he said in reply, "I don't think austerity has ever had a good name. No one likes to limit his desires. The consumer economy leads to unrestrained consumption. A certain austerity is the only way to get that which some call intelligent consumption. The Greek virtue of temperance or moderation is very necessary, both to moderate certain customs, and to moderate the tendency to extremisms in the most conflicting political opinions and positions." Really, once again, the philosopher said it clearly and hardly improved. Because compliance with the deficit, which was praised by the State Court of Auditors, allowed us, among other things, to keep us... you ask what the austerity is for. [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Look, first, we're from the autonomous communities that more stability in the number of public employees we've kept. And besides now, because we're meeting the deficit and there's resources, we can anticipate the recovery of the 2012 extra payment. And possibly, if we can continue at this pace, we will be able to continue to advance the recovery of the complement, which is planned – as you know – for the year 2017. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Murmurs.]] In addition to benefiting from the possibility of paying staff members, rating is important. Galicia went up by rating recently, BBB – i.e., three times more – and it doesn't go up anymore because it has to have the top of the Spanish state, otherwise it would go up more, say the qualifying agency. On the same day, the rating of Catalonia dropped to BB less, i.e., it's already near the good garbage. Well, this, of course, implies that we can finance things better, which is cheaper; and, therefore, that we can make more investment. Galicia is one of the autonomous communities that has the best investment ratio, the execution of investments. Or pay the suppliers in 16 days instead of 46 days on average in the autonomous community. Or have the debt controlled, to spend less debt on future generations. And, above all, controlling the deficit, what it generates, is trust for the escape of the crisis; this year we have EUR 400 million. Was Mr Méndez asking what the austerity is for? Why do you now offer these policies that the President described this morning? Among other things, because, as we're getting out of the crisis, the next year's public budget has 400 million more margin, something that hasn't happened since the years 2008 and 2009, that we had to return the 2,300 million famous. That's why today's president can announce those policies. [[Applause]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Data and reality, in fact, are not mistaken. We are overcoming economic recession; not its consequences, but economic recession. We are on the right path, the path of rigour, to ensure the sustainability of public services...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-14-DSPG124.u33	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-14-DSPG124.u34	...the way of work, so that no one is excluded from recovery; the way of effort, because, without perseverance, what we have done these years can be put down immediately. We are ultimately in the path of good democratic policy, which I learned from my academic teachers, who conceive it not as a process of exploitation of human beings over others, but as a process in which individuals with different interests, values and ideas, not coincidentally, and even potentially opposed, interact with the purpose of ensuring the benefits through cooperation. Because the essence of the democratic political phenomenon is cooperation, not confrontation. Hannah Arendt herself, in the essay I quoted...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-14-DSPG124.u35	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-14-DSPG124.u36	...at the beginning of my intervention, warn us that we must not fail to be aware of the true content of political life, of the joy and gratification that come from being in the company of our equals, of acting together, of appearing in public, of entering into the world of word and work to begin something new. Let us continue, ultimately, on the path of hope, because the Greek people always - and now that this new stage is opened will not be the exception - working and...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-14-DSPG124.u37	Thank you very much, Mr. Puy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-14-DSPG124.u38	...joined around their democratic institutions, and with the trust that gives a stable government...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-14-DSPG124.u39	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-14-DSPG124.u40	...will definitely surpass this crisis we're beginning to leave behind. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-14-DSPG124.u41	Mr. Alberto Núñez Feijóo has the floor for the reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-14-DSPG124.u42	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank all the speeches, the content and scope of them, as well as the contributions. I suppose the whole of the Greek people knows a little better what the position of each parliamentary group is, and, consequently, of every party they represent, after listening to their interventions this afternoon. Ladies and gentlemen, let me try to make a joint response, so that most of the matters that you have found interesting may have a joint and synthetic response. Mr. Méndez Romeo, with all due respect, say that this government is exhausted because I have just made a great remodeling in the board of Galicia closing or stopping at I don't know how many advisors, you, as you can count as I do, know that the number of advisors who caused low was one. Therefore, Your Honor, I don't think that is a great remodeling of the government. If it's true, Your Honor, that we could reach 13 advisors, it was the ones you had. But we thought we still needed to have a government according to the people's ability to pay for it. And the same way we understand that in 2009, when we had the opportunity to rule, 10 was a proper number of advisors, now that for the first time the budget has grown since that year 2009, we returned to the number of advisors we had before. Your Honor, I don't understand how you can say that there is an attack on the equality of this government. I'm saying this because for more than three years we had a government of 8 among counselors and counselors, of which 5 were women and 3 were men. And I can't understand, therefore, how now, of 10, 40% are women and the rest are men, you think it's an attack on equality. I don't understand. Probably, besides, you don't know the fact that the total number of senior executives with positions of responsibility in the board, 709 are men and 782 women. Therefore, Your Honor, a government has never had more women in executive positions, and even a government has never had more women in government than the governments of the Union from 2009 to 2015. [[Applause]] Your Honor, if we fail, therefore, Mr. Méndez Romeo, to count the government, and if we fail to make a description of the remodeling of the government, it is possible to fail in almost all the data that you today, surprisingly, because you like to handle the data, brought to the House. Your Honor, today I believe that you and I, and all of you, can claim that we are in a better situation than in 2009, than in 2010, than in 2011, than in 2012, than in 2013, than in 2014 and in 2015. I believe, Your Honor, that we are in a better economic situation, and all the data so reflect it. We are beginning to overcome the greatest recession in history since Galicia has self-government. Today GDP has risen to 1.8%, the highest rate since 2008. Exports have reached historical figures in 2013, they have again reached historical figures in 2014 and today they are 5% more exports than they were last year, which means that the German economy has never been as competitive, we have never had as much ability to sell abroad as we do now. But in addition to the trade balance between exports and what we bought was beneficial for Galicia in 2013, in 2014 and it will continue to be in 2015. That's why, Your Honor, we're recovering consumer confidence; that's why we're regaining the trust of businessmen; that's why sales of trade are often growing by more than 3%; so now they start opening up new shops, small shops, small shops in Galicia. So, Your Honor, the industrial production index in Galicia is rising more than in the rest of Spain. And so, Your Honor, I think it is reasonable to acknowledge that we are in a better situation than we were at the beginning of the legislation, and in much better situation than we were a year ago, when you and I had the opportunity to dialogue. Your Honor, I don't think it's reasonable to say we're a government of unemployment, because today we have 60,300 less unemployed people than when I took possession of a Christmas month of 2012. I don't think it's fair, therefore, to say we're a government of unemployment, because when we took possession there were 60,000 more unemployed. And that's why today, that we don't forget in any case of the 215,757 unemployed we still have, we can say that we have 22,466 unemployed less than in 2014, 45,000 unemployed less than in 2013, 43,000 unemployed less than in 2012, 17,000 unemployed less than in 2011 and even 358 unemployed less than in 2010. I suppose, Your Honor, that you will remember that the last year of your government was destroyed in Galicia by more than 50,000 jobs. So, Your Honor, I don't think it's reasonable to tell the Greeks that they weren't able to, with much effort, and no doubt with lower wages than we would like, to be among the autonomous communities where Spain's unemployment has gone down most. Your Honor, the highest number of memberships in the month of September since 2011. We have 957,471 affiliates, 20,800 more than in 2014, 31,600 more than in 2013 and 5,700 more than when we take possession. So, Your Honor, I don't think it's fair to the Greek economy, to the Greek workers, to the Greek entrepreneurs, to say the things you said in connection with unemployment. Your Honor, the number of indefinite contracts in Galicia is 80% of the total. Yes, ladies, I say it because it's good to look at the figures and look at the statistics. If you take up the UXT report on the year 2015, you'll say that Galicia's salary drop takes the seventh place, and Andalusia, for example, occupies the fourth place in Spain. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Therefore, I believe that all these data must be seen – Mr. Méndez Romeo, he knows how much I appreciate him – with a little more responsibility. Do not let yourself be led by some data that has been passed on to you by some collaborators. Ladies and gentlemen, it is reasonable to say that if we have an EPA unemployment rate in terms of almost two and a half points below Spain; and if we have a unemployment rate recorded – as I said – of 63,000 unemployed less than when we start the legislation, I think the logic, the logic, is – I insist again – not to tell lies, but to tell the truth, and these are the truths, Your Honor. The unemployment recorded in Galicia has dropped by 14.4 points; 6 points more than the average of Spain. We took it as we took it, Your Honor, we have less unemployment in EPA and less unemployment in registered unemployment than the rest of Spain. And if we go to the young people, in Galicia we have an unacceptable youth unemployment of 45.7%, inadmissible. It's true that in Spain we're at more than 49%. It's true that unemployment recorded in Galicia for less than 30 years has dropped by 21%, 7,744 boys less than a year ago. And the social security affiliations of young people over 30 years of age in Galicia rose by 7%, and in Spain by 3%. I therefore reiterate it again. I believe, Mr. Méndez Romeo – and I say it without accuracy – that the unemployment data you have to check them out. When we talk about young emigrations – let me leave this answer to Mr. Jorquera – let us go back again or not wanting to tell the truth or simply telling the wisdom of a false fact. Ladies and gentlemen, when it is said that we have an improper public debt, it is surprising to say in this House that, being the third autonomous community that best controlled the public deficit from 2009 until 2015, the third with the lowest accumulated public deficit, which we have accomplished every year, every and every year, that we have accomplished last year under the 1% deficit – since we had 0.98% – that we are going to meet again this year 0.7% and that we have not had to go to the Autonomic Liquidity Fund or the Provider Fund, and therefore we have been one of the few autonomous communities not intervened by the Central Government, that this is not considered...! Ladies and gentlemen, we are the second autonomous community in which public debt has been reduced since 2008 in absolute terms, and the third in which public debt has decreased in the GDP ratio. Galician public debt ratio is 5 points below the average of the rest of the autonomous communities. Your Honor, what are we accused of? Are we accused of maintaining public services having controlled the public deficit and the public debt? Do you think that's what they're proposing? Spend more to criticize more? Failure to meet the deficit to intervene? What exactly is your economic policy, Mr. Méndez Romeo? To say that we don't pay the suppliers, and you're taking me out certain complaints before those who have been tried for Sergas's civil responsibility is surprising. The Juridical Council of the Union defends the interests of the autonomous community. What do you want? That every time someone claims we pay him? That we pay even the insurance borrowers who are not fulfilling their obligations? What do we pay the traffic insurers, who want to charge Sergas what they have to pay, and, in no case, public health? [[Murmurs.]] Mr. Méndez Romeo, I do not understand exactly what lobbies are represented by that manifestation; but, of course, I will not pay the traffic insurers or insurance borrowers what they must pay for public health. [[Applause]] Your Honor, tell me we do not know how many tax exemptions. Look, Your Honor, we in Galicia have made tax exemptions to lower citizens' taxes, but, of course, to say that citizens do not pay taxes, in any case. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Tax fraud detected in the Galician Union for undeclared amounts exceeds EUR 180 million. And we're inflating debt, only in 2014, for additional €50.7 million, tax debts. That's why, Your Honor, I'm surprised you're talking about tax amnesties. It is true that the Spanish Socialist Workers Party has done more fiscal amnesties than any other party, but these are Madrid policies, ladies and gentlemen, not Santiago policies. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] So, exactly what are we being accused of? Going up or down taxes? Because the same way we're told that we're lowering taxes and jeopardizing public services, we're automatically reminded that some tax is paid more in Galicia than the rest of the state. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] So, Your Honor, we have dropped EUR 133 million, to 188,000 taxpayers, from selective tax reductions from the year 2009 to now. More child birth deductions; the first autonomous community. More childcare deduction; the first autonomous community. More deduction for renting housing. More donation deductions for R+D. Deduction of investments in facilities and air conditioning with renewable energy. Your Honor, that's what we did. For example, in hydrocarbons, except for the payment of the hydrocarbon tax to all transport since January 2015. You're talking about hydrocarbons, especially gas oil, being more expensive here than the rest of Spain, and you're absolutely right. But it's no more expensive as a result of the tax, because it's more expensive without taking any taxes from any autonomous community. I'd like this House, like the Government, to help transfer to some operator why having a refinery here puts the price of gas oil more expensive than the rest of Spain. [[Murmurs.]] I know, Your Honor, there are some who bother us to remind them, but... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-14-DSPG124.u43	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-14-DSPG124.u44	...I, as I have no commitment to the operators, come again to denounce him. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Ladies and gentlemen, of course we lower the taxes, not the taxes for the rich, because there's still the property tax here, but we're lower the taxes, Your Honor, because we think that, after the crisis, the citizens have the right to the government to comply with the electoral program that was voted on in 2012. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, I am surprised that you speak up and criticize the payment of the tax on returnees. The law would tax the returnees to pay taxes was a law of the Spanish Socialist Workers Party, the law that was passed in Congress to liquidate the returnees – and that when they pay the pensions here they pay the same as the rest of the Greeks – it was a law of the Spanish Socialist Workers Party and the whole world was silent during that time. Your Honor, we're not just...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-14-DSPG124.u45	Quiet, please! I'm sorry, president.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-14-DSPG124.u46	Your Honor, we have not only been with the returnees and the Tax Agency has made all possible liquidations – and we have followed at their disposal – but, for the first time, if we make a reform of a tax law with retroactive effects, so that the interest of delay and compensations to which they have given way for default or payment without deadline. That's why, Your Honor, I'm surprised that it is now said that this government, by fulfilling a law of the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party, is a government that has no sensitivity to returnees. Ladies and gentlemen, that's history, and that's what I think it's worth asking. [[Applause]] Mr. Méndez Romeo, I am not surprised that you are wrong to mark my name and even the geographic orientation of the various responsibilities because you bring the argumentary on Ferraz Street and as you came, I suppose, with the argumentary on Ferraz Street, tell me about the Government of Spain scholarships. Well, as for the Spanish Government's stock exchanges – without going into this matter – I want to tell you that, in 2011, the Government that was there at that time had 1,180 million euros in bags and the 2016 budget has 1,400 million euros in bags; that is, 10.8% more than the Government of the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party. So, Your Honor, Ferraz's arguments must be updated, because you certainly were talking about the 2014 budget or 2015 budget, and we're already on the 2016 budget.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-14-DSPG124.u47	Mrs. Gallego!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-14-DSPG124.u48	The Budgets of the Galician Union never had to return them, neither amend them nor scrape them, we have paid a fee for the commitments of the public deficit we made with Galicia and the rest of Spain. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, it is true that there is a report of the year 2015, where it is said that the Galician Union highlights how Spain's third fastest administration in implementing an industrial PEME, also highlights that Law 9, i.e. the Entrepreneurship Act, is a pioneering standard and recommends that this report be used, but this part of the report has not quoted it, you have every right to quote the other part. But on the other hand, no doubt, we are also encouraged to move forward with the process of administrative simplification started two years ago and there is a criticism. Mr. Méndez Romeo, either they won't leave you or they haven't come to the paragraph that says the report. What does the report on which the Public Administration is delaying its permits in Galicia say? Do you want me to say it or do you want me to say it? It's Vigo Town Hall, Your Honor. The Vigo Town Hall is delaying, for a basic construction permit, 300 days before the average 100 days of the rest of Galician municipalities. [[Interruptions.]] Therefore, Mr. Méndez Romeo, he could not quote this report as a whole. [[Murmurs.]] I am convinced of that, but no problem, Mr. Méndez Romeo. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-14-DSPG124.u49	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-14-DSPG124.u50	Ladies and gentlemen, every time we talk about this, it gets more nervous every day. [[Laughter]] I mean, ladies and gentlemen, we've been here trying to work with companies, actually, to keep oxygen and life in the cycle of difficulties. That's why you have Lasurgal, the CIE Galfor, or you accept April, or Aluman, or Marsan, or Pérez Torres Marítima, or Aludec Sanoxia; or we start with Pescanova from the beginning, or Clessa, or Barreras, or Copo, or ABC laboratories or Paquito. Yes, yes, I understand, Your Honor. [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] You're talking about Ferrol, Eume and Portugal. No, and Ortegal!; Ferrol, Eume and Ortegal, indeed. But it is true that these districts represent approximately 5% of Galician territory.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-14-DSPG124.u51	Mrs. Gallego! [[Interruptions.]] [[Murmurs.]] Mrs. Gallego, either let you talk or I'll have to call your order, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-14-DSPG124.u52	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Madam President, I thank you too. I say these districts account for 5% of the territory of the population of Galicia, they have captured 17% of Igape's investment projects in the last six years – 17% – and they have captured more than 19% of Galician Union loans. In recent years investments have been mobilised for 650 million euros. If you ask me if we're satisfied, I'll tell you no, because the county and the most unemployed municipality in Galicia is Pontevedra and then it's Ferrol and, therefore, we can't agree with this data at all. But I don't think you should underestimate what we're trying to do, which is to do society in Lugo and Ourense. Only through Igape have we approved around 1,500 business projects in both provinces – in Ourense, especially in the interior. Associated investment of EUR 280 million. Ladies and gentlemen, innovation initiatives in Lugo and Ourense: Coren and the Meat Technology Centre – EUR 24 million – the Agrobiotech acceleration programme in Ourense and Lugo, the accelerated Via Lugo to create entrepreneurs of conformity with the Vigo Free Zone, or the industrial technological pole of unmanned aircraft – that is, Your Honor, of what the Socialist Party and Mr Rodríguez Zapatero talked about every quarter and which will finally be in Lugo. And that's why I think, ladies and gentlemen, that we're trying in the provinces of the interior, trying – I insist – and I think sometimes I can catch a pulse in the economic recession. Your Honor, we have a competitiveness agenda for Galicia Industry 4.0 with 60 concrete measures, the aim is that industry will be able to contribute 20% of GDP in 2020 and the aim of industry is to create 50,000 new jobs. I don't think it's reasonable to say that we have no innovation policy, the Strategy of Intelligent Specialization was not just a proposal from the Government, the European Commissioner came here, the European Minister of Europe presented it with EUR 1,600 million until 2020. Your Honor, I think we have a strategy of internationalization because, if there are for the first time more than 6,000 companies that are exporting and if we have the best export data in our entire history, it means that we are doing things, that companies are doing things with a lot of common sense. There are 28.5% more exporting companies today than in 2009 and this year we have an aggregated export record for the first seven months of the year. Your Honor, I don't think it's fair for you to tell me that we don't execute the budget, we run it at 99.9%. If we didn't run the budget, we'd always have a lower public deficit than expected, and if we're always meeting that deficit, it's because we're running the 99.9% budget. If we executed more, we would run deficits and if we executed less, we would have much less deficits than approved by the Fiscal and Financial Policy Council. [[Applause]] Your Honor, it's true that we didn't have money for everything, I tried to say it this morning, and if there were years with 2,200 million euros less each year than during your time as a member of the Government, you'll understand that there were some difficulties. I don't know what it's like to manage Galicia with the money that the bipartite had, I don't know, the legislation won't be able to know. What I'm saying is that we're very happy to be able to manage Galicia with 400 million euros more than last year. And we're happy because we can finally get 99% of the Greeks not to pay a potato for succession taxes or the donation tax, and finally, we're going to put zero taxes on the countryside because we think that the pool of farms, the people who want to invest in the countryside by buying agricultural land or buying forest land, they shouldn't pay taxes because we're interested in investing in the countryside. And of course we are interested, Your Honor, in making a social policy with more money, more squares and more resources than we did at the time of economic kindness. Your Honor, it's true that we could make many roads, no doubt, but at the end of this legislation there will be 6% more miles of high-capacity routes than when we arrived at the Government in 2009, I don't think it's a minor issue. They're on duty 97 kilometers of new highways, 97 miles. There are 47 kilometres in service in the current legislation, the 97 were from the first legislation, the 47 have already put them in place for the first three years and we have to open and connect the interior of Lugo – arriving from Lugo to Sarria and now from Sarria to Monforte – we are left to make more than 27 kilometers of Highway on the Coast of Death – which there has been a lot of debate about – and we are starting the work this month of the 17 kilometers from the Morrazo Highway. Your Honor, we have to connect the Low Ries Highway to the San Cibrao de las Viñas polygon in Ourense, no doubt, and we are running a high-capacity track of 8 kilometers from the Lucense Navy between Celero and San Cibrao. I'm sorry that when we arrived at the Government there was not a single mile from that high-capacity track in Lugo province. But of course it's logical, Your Honor, that they'd like to invest more, even though I don't know because, during the time we invested a lot of infrastructure, there were many criticisms of the Socialist Party and the nationalists. But it is true that we have carried EUR 1 billion invested in hydraulic infrastructures: in 35 debuggers – which means that 1.2 million Greeks have a debugger that they didn't have before – and in the sanitation of the rivers, to which we already dedicate EUR 170 million, and at last we will have the laughs, especially the Vigo River, with the biggest debugger and the largest infrastructure of the European Atlantic facade that is running right now. Your Honor, we're going to follow because Ribadumia, Ares, Fene, Mugardos, Esteiro, Santa Comba, Baiona, Walls, Sound Port, Ribadeo, Cerceda and more recently Grove and Corrubedo already have debuggers that are working. And let's go on, Your Honor, because we believe in the purification of the waters and because we believe in the extraction capacities in the rivers. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I don't think it's fair to say we don't invest in dependence. If we made 7,800 new public squares, and this means 76% more public squares than they did during the bipartite, I think it's a data to be taken into account; if when we arrived at the Government they would charge, every month, 14,000 dependents, and now they're charging 40,000, each month, it's a data to be taken into account. I repeat, I have never seen a budget like what the bipartite had to run, we never enjoy those accounts, and yet we commit to incorporating 10,000 more dependents than we have in the 2016 budget. [[Mr. Méndez Romeo pronounces words that are not perceived.]] That is why, Your Honor, we will continue to make public squares and, in fact, in children's schools – as I said in the morning – we have, for the first time, 33 squares per 100, fulfilling the European Union's ratio. And we want to keep going because, where the public squares are exhausted, the logic is that parents and mothers have a hand to take him to other daycare centres, and we want to go on because where there are no daycare centers in the countryside, the logic is that families have a solution funded from public funds so they can take their children to a caretaker during the morning and afternoon. [[Applause]] Your Honor, we're going to continue working on the dependency and I'm asking that the Social Plan against Economic Inequity that we make available to Members, that we leave them healthy and make them available to the municipalities, that we leave them with less economic and financial problems than we have found them... I say, Your Honor, that it would be good to make a joint plan for the whole country. We, of course, are going to try and hope and wish that we could achieve it. Mr. Jorquera and ladies of the Joint Group, it is not true – once again I repeat it again – that in no case do we have the greatest percentage of poverty, it looks as if it looks. If you want to take the rate of exclusion from homes and individuals from Caritas, we are the autonomous community with the lowest rate of exclusion from homes and we are the autonomous community with the lowest rate of exclusion from individuals from Spain. –Individual, yes, indeed. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] If you want to take the recent data of poverty – which are published in the Life Conditions Survey, the latest known in 2014 –, Galicia is the fourth community with the lowest rate of poverty in Spain, after Madrid, Navarre and the Basque Country. So, what are you accusing us of, gentlemen? Are we accused of having less income than in Navarre, than in Basque Country and than in Madrid? We've known that from the beginning. Now that you want to suppress the Basque dome, I suppose we can talk about poverty rates among autonomous communities with adequate funding systems. It is true, Your Honor, that the Socialist Party wants to suppress the Basque Cup in Andalusia, but the Socialist Party is ruling with the Basque Nationalist Party everywhere in Basque. Why are we constantly being deceived and kept going? Why do they tell half of Spain to believe them knowing they're going to do the opposite because if they don't, you won't have any chance of occupying any institution in Basquedi? I think, Your Honor, that we should talk about funding and insurance, Mr. Jorquera, that we will often talk about next year, but playing with this does not seem appropriate because we are playing with the amendment of the Constitution and the Guernica Statute well deserves, Your Honor, a reflection. [[Murmurs.]] It is true that the Socialist Party has ruled Spain 22 years. You didn't have time to change the Basque cup! But now that he's in the opposition, it turns out he's selling it from changing the Basque cup. Ladies and gentlemen, you don't understand my words in any case as a defense of unequal situations, but as a defence of prevailing legality. Mr. Méndez Romeo, Mr. Jorquera, I do not think it is reasonable to refuse public health, I do not believe it; I, of course, will continue to work for public health. Because if we have less surgical waiting for pathologies that cannot wait – 16 days and we had more than 30 days when we arrived – if we have 38% less surgical waiting for severe pathologies – there was 64 and now there are 40 –; if the professionals are doing the greatest number of surgical interventions in the day of tomorrow in the public surgeons – 28,000 surgical interventions plus every year –; if we are conscious of society and the optionals of providing generic medicines – when we arrive at 10% and now at 43% – and if that is supposed to cost pharmaceutical spending more than 250 million euros, it is because this allows us to devote it to more hospitals. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Murmurs.]] In full economic recession, you can say from a rostrum that 50% of the Greeks have in their health area a new hospital – or reformed – or a new health center I think it's worth a reflection. And to be able to say, and I say, next 2016 will be 70% of the Greeks who have a new or reformed hospital in their health area, I think it also deserves a reflection. [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]] Your Honor, expanding the Ourense Hospital, expanding the Salnés Hospital, making for the first time a master plan of the Ferrol Hospital Complex and starting next year, I think it's worth putting it in value, at least those we believe in public health. He said the spokesperson for the majority group, and he recalled the data from the Health Barometer – the last one, published in June 2015 – that we have 10% more population than the average of Spain that considers that public health works better than before, 10% more than in the average of Spain. We are above the overall valuation of Spain: 73.2% in Galicia and 62.7% in Spain. Your Honor, if you take your associations, the Association for the Defence of Public Health, which I suppose you have to make data for all autonomous communities even though here they say it's the worst public health, I don't know what they'll say in Andalusia, I don't know what they'll say in the communities where you rule, because here what you say is that we've improved positions and other communities have worsened positions. So, if when the bipartite ruled, we were community number 13 in worse public health, and now we're going up to number 7, I suppose, ladies and gentlemen, that you yourself are telling us that, indeed, the Greeks have made a great effort with public health in recent years. [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]] Your Honor, a prominent socialist Viser has come to claim that lack of central laboratory endangers the life of the vigees – literally –. This is just fake, and I think to say this is a huge irresponsibility. [[Murmurs.]] This hospital has an 800-square-foot laboratory – 800! – and in the brother hospital in the hospital complex is the central laboratory where all the samples are received from all the health centers in Galicia's most populated health area. That's why the High Court of Justice in Galicia wanted to completely remove the reason for this tyranny. I'm not going to hide the problems of the transfer of Álvaro Cunqueiro Hospital, in no case, neither have I done it nor will I. [[Murmurs.]] We knew we were facing the most difficult health operation since the transfer of Health in 1990, we knew. Because it wasn't just to change 6,000 professionals from one side to the other, it was to change the whole hospital culture, it was that the General ICU service and the service of the Mexoneiro ICU had worked together and under a single chief, it was that the General Hospital emergencies and the Mexoneiro emergencies had worked together and under one hierarchical order, it was, Your Honor, to make the transfer harder than we've ever done. [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] It's true that we had no help at all: we were denied water, we were denied supplies, we were denied sanitation, we were denied roads, we were denied electrical attacks. We had everything in our favor not to do the hospital, even as an ex-counsel of the bipartite told me: "I don't think you can do the hospital because there's no euro to do it." [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]] He could actually follow the appointment of that former councillor, but I preferred, Your Honor, to leave a hospital that is three times larger than the old hospital, make 122 percent more rooms in this hospital than in the old hospital and double the emergency surface. I am convinced, Your Honor, that without doubt we can believe that it was worth it. And I am convinced, Your Honor, that we can believe it sooner than ever. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I am used to health issues, here it was said solemnly – it is in the Journal of Sessions – that the PP paid every doctor 30 euros to dismiss patients who were on the waiting list... – Madam, I am not going to quote Members who are not –...I say that they even handled an electoral pamphlet with the acronyms of the Spanish Socialist Workers Party in which it was said that if we won the PP, we would charge 206 euros for a consultation... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-14-DSPG124.u53	Mr. Gallego, that's all right!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-14-DSPG124.u54	...and 513 euros per hospital stay. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Your Honor, there is a member of the Socialist Party who asks who did this. Mr. Méndez Romeo, I ask you to inform him...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-14-DSPG124.u55	Mr. Gallego!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-14-DSPG124.u56	...because I don't think you should report on who does things in the Socialist Party, I don't think you're legitimized to do it. [[Applause]] Friends, as much as we repeat a lie it won't really become, no. [[Murmurs.]] The public health of Galicia is 100 percent public, our hospitals are 100 percent public, the new infrastructure that we do will continue to be 100 percent public and the attention will be paid by professionals employed public at the Galego Health Service. Your Honor, today we have an electronic recipe and a clinical history, Mr. Jorquera, as there is no health service, just approaching Euskadi. The phone consultation program, it's doing more than a million queries in the past year. The Social Protection of Public Health Program, we were one of the first autonomous communities to maintain health protection for immigrants and people without resources. Your Honor, the Health Insurance Act now regulates the maximum waiting times and now the Greeks can for the first time decide which hospital they are going to and decide which health care doctor can attend. Early detection of colon cancer is the first time we have started it, precisely in the area of Ferrol, and we are renewing the greatest technology of TACs, resonances and mammographs that has never renewed a public health system in the 30 years that has been transferred. [[Murmurs.]] That's why, Your Honor, we have a recognized health and so, Your Honor, I suppose we will have a better health and that the Greeks will gradually realize that there is someone who is not lying to them. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Ladies and gentlemen, in my opinion, it's not logical to talk about having a worse education than when we get here. If we are the first autonomous community in number of teachers per student, why do we have the worst education? because teachers are worse than those of the rest of the state? [[Murmurs.]] If we have more teachers per student in Galicia than the rest of the state, why do we have a worse education than the rest of the state? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Your Honor, I do not accept that the Greek teachers have less competence than the rest of the teachers in Spain. No, I can't accept it and I can't accept it because we have a teacher ratio of 10.5 students per teacher and the average of the autonomous communities is almost in 13, we're the first. [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] We have new technologies, said the spokesperson for the majority group, actually 51,000 more students. Today we have 420 assistants of conversation, with the bipartite we had 67. That's why, when they're upset now to say that we want a trilingual education, but if the two-party with the BNG started in the government! If you hired 67 English-speaking teachers. So now that we hire 420 it turns out we don't love the country or do we want the country? [[Murmurs.]] Your Honor, we thought we had to improve on your balance sheet and that's what we did. That's why we have more vocational training squares, so -- I'm saying -- we have the lowest university rates in the country, and that's why the Rectors are making a huge effort, and today the Greek universities are more competitive and have more teaching qualities than they were a few years ago, and so, Your Honor, we have to speak well of the universities in Greece, their management teams and their directors. [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]] [[Applause]] It is criticized that the dropout rate is very – 18.5% – but, Mr. Méndez Romeo and Mr. Jorquera, saying that it's a lot of the dropout rate and when you were in government they had almost 26%, or it was a lot before or before it was a disaster. But the truth is, we have the lowest dropout rate since we have statistics. And if we have 72,000 school dining places, if the Pisa Report says Galicia exceeds the average of Spain in all the skills evaluated and we draw in mathematics, if this report says Galicia improves in reading and science, ladies and gentlemen, I think we're making an effort. No doubt much more could be done if we continue to obeisance or simply, Your Honor, if we continue to say something and its opposite, but I don't think that's the right thing to do. Mr. Méndez Romeo, who passed the data that we invested more in private health than in the bipartite doesn't like it. And I repeat again: there is someone who gives you data that does not respect the spokesperson of the House's majority group. Because the increase in private health expenditure is twice as much during the bipartite as during this government. That is why I am surprised – I reiterate again – Mr. Méndez Romeo, that you who like to use the data correctly now speak again about certain matters. Mr. Méndez Romeo, about corruption I refer to the words of the spokesman of the House's majority group; I am convinced that you did not want to talk about it so that I would abound on that ground, and that is why I will not. I know that when they meet with IBEX companies they automatically undertake not to touch a peak of work reform, I know perfectly well. And when they meet with IBEX companies in no case do they say that taxes will be raised, on the contrary, do you remember what lower taxes was leftover? So when they talk about these things just to see if someone bites, the Greeks have memory and we know perfectly, Mr. Méndez Romeo, that one thing is what they say in the rostrums and another is what they say in the offices. [[Murmurs.]] That's why I don't think it's reasonable that you're saying things that are denying them in private everywhere where they have the chance to be heard. Mr. Jorquera, with all the kindness – I tell you from the admiration I profess – I don't think it's a problem, not for me, perhaps for him, but if it's a problem for you I immediately withdraw it from the Journal of Sessions. [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] I've often told Mr. Jorquera that I have much more in common with him than he has with the CUP in Catalonia but I don't listen. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Well, one day you'll listen to me, and I suppose we can talk and talk. [[Murmurs.]] There was a BNG spokesman – who is no longer there – who once told me to see if we one day had a bottle of coffee liquor in my house you and me and we could talk. [[Applause]] I'm glad it was like this. [[Applause]] It's true that he's gone now, but we can take it at some point. [[Applause]] [[Murmurs.]] So, Mr. Jorquera – I tell you with absolute kindness – had to leave until 1918 to remember a nationalist assembly where they were not all angry. [[Murmurs.]] That, of course, Mr. Jorquera, is an important thing. [[Murmurs.]] Mr. Jorquera, I respect the nationalists, I share neither their ideology nor their vision of the country nor their interpretation of history. But you must respect that Galicia is not a nationalist. No, Galicia is not a nationalist and, therefore, as Galicia is not a nationalist, we cannot implement nationalist policies. He says Galician headquarters goes to Madrid. I believe that what is going to Madrid is some seat of some nationalist party, which is now near the Complutense. Of course, here, Your Honor, that doesn't happen. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] But it's not logical, Mr. Jorquera, to say that the young Welsh population has descended as a result of the PP. Look, we've lost 238,373 boys – it's true – between 16 and 29 years since 1998. [[Murmurs.]] Do you know why, Your Honor? Because they're not born; that's the problem, you know it as well as I do. Between 1975 and 1979, an average of nearly 44,000 children were born in Galicia. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] After 1980 to 1984 we were down to 34,000, 21%. And then from 1985 onwards, we began to lower each lustro from 25,000 to 21,000, from 21,000 to 18,000, from 18,000 to 19,000 in the 2000-2004 lustro. We went up to 21,991 between 2005 and 2009, and now we're back to 21.114 between 2010 and 2012. Therefore, the demographic problem of Galician boys does not blame you to any government, but responsibility lies with society as a whole. [[Murmurs.]] And surely the governments that were at that time during the transition will have something to say, and during the times of the Socialist Party and the People's Party as well. And when you say that the largest volume of juvenile emigration occurs in these years you know it's not true, because when the largest number of young people in Galicia left was in 2007, then in 2008 and then, Your Honor, in 2009. That's why I don't think you should tell us things here that know the conscience that are not true. He said textually, Mr. Jorquera: "During the crisis they came out of Galicia 260,000 people," and it's true. What happens is that what you didn't tell was the people who entered during the crisis. From Galicia, indeed, 204,000 people came out and entered 24,000; i.e. 36,000 people entered more than they came out. So, now the problem, Your Honor, is age. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Well, Your Honor, no doubt we're going to stop the older people from returning to Galicia. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Murmurs.]] Yes, Your Honor, we're going to stop the Greeks from returning to Galicia just because we have to choose the ages to return to the country. [[Laughter]] Ladies and gentlemen, less demagogy and a little more serious, if you like. [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]] Mr. Jorquera, it is not true that fishing quotas are decreasing. Between 2005 and 2012 we lost 44% of the tons, and in 2012-2014 we earned 13% of the quota and, most importantly, 55% of the fish's value. That's why the quota of fish in the Cantabria, for example, has grown by 75% since 2009. [[Murmurs.]] It is true that with other species, such as the width, we are having difficulties. But when the fish's quota rises to 75%, that's despite the government, and when we have a problem in a particular species, that's because of the government. Mr. Jorquera, I don't think that's the logical thing to do with this kind of valuation. [[Murmurs.]] When the two-party government negotiated in Madrid with the Ministry of Agriculture reached 12 million euros for the dairy sector – 12 million – we had the same prices as those we had this past quarter. Yes, Your Honor, I have them at your disposal. [[Murmurs.]] Now we have just made 45 million and a half euros only from the Spanish Government to the Greek dairy sector, 75% of what is going to be distributed now will come to Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-14-DSPG124.u57	Mr. Garcia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-14-DSPG124.u58	I don't understand.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-14-DSPG124.u59	Mr. Garcia, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-14-DSPG124.u60	Ladies and gentlemen, I am convinced that it may be the height, but during the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party, there was nothing coming, and to me it certainly seems the height; it seems to me the double height, Your Honor. [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]] [[Murmurs.]] Mr. Jorquera, you know as much as I do that the problem of a minister's energy policy that is now making many books for Spain was the 35,000 million euros of tariff deficit, i.e., of debt he left to pay. [[Murmurs.]] And despite the fact that he said that the premiums were finished, 85% of the wind megawatts are running – exactly 83.5% – and the industrial plans have invested 986 million euros and 2,000 jobs, according to the commitments of the wind companies. And that's why, Your Honor, I think it's also to recognize that for the first time – I'm surprised a nationalist party doesn't see it – they're collecting 114 million euros from wind companies for the benefit of Galicia's autonomic and local farms, for the first time. I don't know why you didn't impose taxes on the wind sector, we're -- critics, defendants in all courts, and at the moment thanks to the efforts of the Legal Counsel with judgments won. Look, Your Honor, when we want to know how the language is in Galicia, what we do is do an investigation with intensity. We may not do it – you know – but the Galego Institute of Statistics is at the disposal of Galicia's interests. And from this survey – which you and I know – some of us would like to improve, no doubt, especially with regard to the use of Greek, and others with more positive aspects, I think it is worth putting into value: the Greek continues to be Galician majority language, the change in the trend in favour of Greek in oral and written knowledge indexes, knows to speak Greek 97.5% of the population – some years ago 96.9–, the degree of knowledge of language among Greeks is the highest ever. [[Murmurs.]] Now, therefore, if we know and know how to speak and write the matter, it is undoubtedly to use it. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] But as far as new technologies are concerned, we have surpassed the Linguistic Standardization Plan – which you are proposing – in aspects such as the use of Greek on social networks – before it is true that they did not exist – or we have the domain.gal, we have digital newspapers in German – all those who want – as well as translators in the most widely distributed media – we can read the Voice of Galicia, the Lighthouse of Vigo, the Progress, etc., in Welsh. None of this was contemplated in that plan. [[Murmurs.]] Nor was it contemplated that we had one more channel on public radio and one more channel on television, and we have it; it was developed and published the nominator, which allowed us to advance in the use of a toponyms as complex as Welsh; it is taught in double universities all over the world than it was taught in 2004; and we passed a Law on the Use of Lusophony. Therefore, Your Honor, I think it is worth knowing that the problem we have is not the knowledge of the Greek, but the use of the language itself. For if this is the problem, let's work out the solution and don't start saying that we don't care about the Greek, that we don't teach the Greek, and that the boys during the PP don't know the Greek, because it's just the opposite. [[Applause]] Mr. Jorquera, are we doing our legislative program? The answer is yes. We have referred to Parliament almost 60% of the total laws we commit to the electoral programme. Twenty-four texts from the forty-two planned were forwarded, entered into force twenty-one and are in processing two – the Law of the ground and the Law of transparency. We will continue to refer the laws to Parliament, and the Law on Cultural Heritage, the Law on Aquaculture and the Law on Legal Services are finalised. In the past legislation we passed fifty laws, in this legislation we passed thirty-eight. I think we're going to run the electoral program. And I believe, Your Honor, that it is not worth – at least for now – to suggest that we are not going to be able to carry out the electoral program to which we are committed. Your Honor – I've finished – I think the state parties you're talking about are true that sometimes they say one thing and others say another, I'm not going to deny it. From the beginning we asked for the transfer of the freeway from the Atlantic to the 2009 electoral program and to the 2012 electoral program. It is true, Your Honor, that this highway has not been transferred to Galicia, but you gentlemen, I think it has been for some time; there are other fellow Members of Parliament who have been ruling in Galicia for more than 20 years. Now the beach between Pontevedra and Vigo... Sorry, more than 20 years of rule in Spain, I don't want to take that honor away from them. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I say it is now expanding the freeway of the Atlantic; nothing has been done during the eight years of economic kindness. Now the price of the peas between Vigo and Pontevedra has been reduced; during the eight years of economic kindness nothing has been done. And now, when it comes to funding, the toll of a state highway is paying for the Greeks, Your Honor, and even above the presumption of management. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] What would happen if a central government highway paid the Greeks for the lifting of the toll? [[Murmurs.]] I'd like to hear some sides of this House to see what they'd say. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] But here you assume anything. [[Murmurs.]] Friends, ladies and gentlemen, the financing of what you're talking about. He says we've lost. I don't know how much money in funding. The funding now available was committed to one of your election partners, to the Republican Left of Catalonia. No, I know you don't care, but I don't care, because the Republican Left of Catalonia goes as a partner of the BNG as a Welshman I can't understand, and I have to say it, I can't understand it. And that's why when we agreed on the funding system with the Government of Spain, the Socialist Party, you were in the House, Your Honor. [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And then they asked us for €2.300 million to return, they were those negative liquidations of the fake budget of the year 2008-2009. Your Honor, what we achieved was, instead of returning it in five years, first, a ten-year round of applause, then a twenty-first round of applause and now not paying for what didn't match last year or this year. I think everything can be better. But, of course, we have improved the situation that we find ourselves from the point of view of funding is true. Ladies and gentlemen, it seems very good to me that you quote the Constitution, it seems very good to me, because a parliamentary group which disagrees with the Constitution and which quotes the Constitution seems to me to me to be an advance. To say that a ruling by the Constitutional Court is a coup d'état constitutionale... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-14-DSPG124.u61	Quiet, please! Mrs. Díaz, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-14-DSPG124.u62	Your Honor, if I know who this cathedral is, I have no doubt. I thought you agreed with him. Well, if you agree with him, let me quote him. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Well, then say these things, for I cannot share them, Your Honor. To say by a professor of constitutional right that a constitutional sentence is a coup d'état constitutionale, simply, I can't accept it in any case, because it seems to me to be a huge irresponsibility. And that's why I can't understand, Your Honor, that we have at this moment that we are discussing whether or not we have complied with the Constitution. By the way, Your Honor, to approve the Second Right is mandatory to know the Constitution. I was lucky to have Professor Portero, who gave me the Constitution, director of the University of Coruña; he's a good constitutionalist. It gives me the feeling that you and I couldn't learn more about the Constitution, because something about the Constitution does. [[Applause]] Your Honor, you say, Mr. Jorquera, and I say kindly, that Galicia needs a new time, and you paraphrased President Aznar and compared me to President González, and I accept the comparison. I think President González, no doubt, was the best president the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party had and will have in many decades seeing what's ahead. I can assure you, Your Honor, that I don't care if you give me that approval. [[Murmurs.]] I believe that Galicia in a new time has begun with the economic recovery which has been found in this debate, that is the Galician new time that I think we have just begun. [[Applause]] I'm going to finish, ladies and gentlemen. About AGE's speech I don't have much to say, honestly. Because after listening to him for a few years in the debate of the state of Autonomy – it takes fifteen years to do the debate of the state of Autonomy – it is very similar what he is saying in each of these debates. We start with Rome, we continue with the Renaissance, we take an incursion into the Fourth Reich, we talk about liberal Stalinism and we're teasing and slandering the president of Mexico, the State of Israel, the German nation, the Russian Tsares, saying that the euro is a totalitarian blow, at least... to these things, Your Honor, we're used to the mercenaries of history that think of metal. I suppose a former trade corridor opponent should know a lot about the market and money and metal. We know what it's like to try to use the money as a professor of Public Affairs taught us, who said that money is a scarce asset susceptible to alternative uses. For what we can and do is that scarce asset that we manage to use for strengthening public services and so that in Galicia there was no lack of public service to any German during the economic crisis. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, I have been told – I cannot confirm – that the speech of the spokesperson for the BNG is about the last intervention he did recently at the Faculty of Policy. Well, I don't have to say any more. This intervention is an intervention that goes slowly loose depending on where you are, but it remains the same. I mean, adorned, that's right, with seven capital sins to see if we find any headlines. Look, Your Honor, with all humility... I don't hide from you that the Tides, which we still don't know what it is, because we have to talk to Mr. Churches before, I say they won in a city. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] The People's Party has won in four and in all deputies. Now Mareas has won in a city and says the People's Party has lost the election. [[Murmurs.]] It's the tsarist way of interpreting democracy. But at the end of the day, we, as the spokesman for this group said, know that we are also winning the opposition and admitting that those who lose the elections rule. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, I'm going to finish. I think, Mrs. Churches, that "Galicia is on the right path" is not from the elites, it is from the pilgrims, who are coming to Galicia, and who come cleanly and increasingly come, and I think that's good. You recommend movies to us. I, of course, would try to see a better cinema than you recommend me, but, in any case, if you want to see those movies, you have every right. You speak of Benedict XVI and Al Capone. I don't know if they have any relationship or not, I suppose not. But what I'm surprised at is some quote I've heard, because I heard it in a tone so obvious that I had to pay attention because I didn't recognize it, Mrs. Churches. [[Murmurs.]] But there are three things that I don't think we should accept: the first, that from the Joint Group are given classes of political ethics; the second, that they say they represent Galician social majority; and the third, that they call the unity of the opposition after they leave. [[Murmurs.]] Now, these things have remained in the Journal of Sessions, and how logical it is that I can only accept them, as it cannot be otherwise. [[Applause]] Mrs. Martínez, tell you that you've met the current Health Adviser in Povervisa. I met him managing the Vigo Master Hospital and as director of Sergas de Vigo. It's true that you worked in Povervisa; the councillor knows how to work in public health; you're a member of parliament who has worked in private health. You see how Galicia is an open society and it has nothing to do with the health and employment of each Member of the House. What I'm saying is that every time we had discussions with Povervisa there was a reception committee in Vigo that asked me for more money for Povervisa, that is, more money for private health. And now it turns out we don't know very well what we have to do, because if we put more money for Povervisa Mrs. Martínez to recriminalize us, and if, on the other hand, we put less money on it, too, it will recriminalize us, in which case, Mrs. Martínez, I don't know exactly what we have to do. Of course, in our opinion, freeing the area, letting people who want to go to the public hospital can go and put limits on Povisa's intervention capabilities. Look, you've challenged the spokesperson for the People's Group to most of the issues you raised, but I don't think it's reasonable to call them the seven hundred thousand long voters of the "honest agent" People's Party, I don't believe it. And I think the people of the People's Party who voted for us, because that's why we're here, because I don't think they deserve the "dishonest" qualification, and that's why I'm sure you'll withdraw it. Look, Your Honor, this resignation and presentation of a new program is difficult. I will not resign to present a new program, I will continue to be President of the Board by presenting what we are going to do in 2016, that is the debate of the state of Autonomy. And that's why I don't think lower taxes is to go against people, because lower taxes to those who have less think it's in favor of people. At least that's what we thought and what we're going to do. Ladies and gentlemen, with all sincerity, I think it was a very interesting debate from the point of view of contributions, and if I have not been at all at the same time excuse me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-14-DSPG124.u63	Replica round of parliamentary groups. For the Mixed Group, Mrs Iglesias and Martínez García.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-14-DSPG124.u64	Good afternoon. Thank you again, President. Mr. Feijóo, I'm not going into personal matters, I'm going into what really interests this country, and that's why I'm going to resume a few words of his speech, and how much we repeat a lie won't really change. Well, the truths that you're echoing in your speech: The other day Caritas – as much as he likes to talk – warns that half of the users of their dining rooms in Galicia are families of people working in precarious labor, working on temporary contracts, part-time, sometimes. "Work poverty" is called euphemism this new slavery that affects people and families whose wages do not cover basic needs. The statistics, the data I have, tell us that in the contracts registered in September are temporary 93.04% and only 6.96% are undefined. And the reality is that today in Galicia there are 148,000 part-time contracts. And 70,000 workers on the other hand – pay attention to the data! – charge an annual salary of less than 5,000 euros, which, distributed into twelve payrolls plus two extras, results in 351, Mr. Feijóo, 351 euros a month. Are these the job and salary improvements that you present to us as great? Contracts affecting thousands of Galician families, which are forced to attend the services of Caritas because their wages do not cover basic needs. And I ask myself, why do you have to resort to Caritas, where are the institutions of the social and democratic rule of law that begs for article 1 of the Constitution to help them? Constitutional legality is also that, Mr. Feijóo. What do you do with our taxes? About 200,000 unemployed people in Galicia and over 20% of temporary employees. And another fact: do you know that the International Labour Organization places Spain as the country where inequality is greater because of this type of contract that coldly collects statistics as job creation? While we're being told to pay back the underpaid to officials another OECD report, it turns out that it puts us on the head of the list of countries whose young people will involuntarily accept part-time jobs; and not only that, Mr. Feijóo, it turns out that they accept any job. You explain to me, and to youth too, why they're not going to have their own home or how they're going to pay for health payouts or services like the parking lot of the Cunqueiro Alvaro. Tell them they have children, Galicia needs to reverse the demographic pyramid. You better not explain it to them, teach them Catalan, Spanish, English or German so they have to emigrate. Do you deny or ignore the abandonment that thousands of people who are stopped in Galicia, who aren't even listed in the statistics and don't charge any coverage? You have to know that these people will be irrevocably thrown into the terrible drama of social exclusion. Because you've been down 19% since the government. During the month of August last this coverage reached 54.6%, compared to 57% of the same month last year. This leaves 90,000 unemployed persons with work experience without unemployment benefit. I mean, 17,853 people and their families less than benefit from unemployment benefit. In addition, there is an alarming increase in long-term unemployment. And despite his speech, the PP initiatives for work and female entrepreneurship and for equality, the truth is that women together with youth are the most punished sectors. Another study by Save the Children shows that 56% of single-parent families headed by a woman have only 600 euros per month to live. Add to this the difficulties you have in making your work and personal life compatible. Another data. In the annual comparison of the unemployed, if we analyze proportionally... the absolute is 22,466. If we analyze it, this drop is more intense in masculine sectors, construction and industry 14.415 men than 8,051 women. Let's go back to the early 20th century in labour law, and you're responsible for it, as well as for the agony of this country. Go away, Mr. Feijóo, go away. Good afternoon.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-14-DSPG124.u65	Thank you, Mrs Iglesias. Mrs. Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-14-DSPG124.u66	Well, that's pretty summary because there's a lot to answer, right? But so, taking out the bulk, I wonder what we're paying if we don't suffer a ransom, which passed with the bank, that money we owe from where it comes from. Why all these clippings to pay a debt that turns out doesn't exist now? It's invented or I don't really know what it is and what is due to that so-called "inexitive debt" or "hatred debt." You speak of Galicia's energy capacity, of course, which is not exploited by this government, systematically refusing to give in to energy self-consumption for small farms, for small businesses and citizens. You talk about job creation, but you refuse to talk about job creation. I, who have been in India many times, can say that in India there's hardly any unemployment, they all work for the food plate and sleep inside the job. Is that creating a job, too? Well, that's the precarious job you're glad you're creating. You're talking about rising wages over the average state, we're talking about average wages. But what you're not saying is that they increase the wages of high-ranking companies and managers but lower the wages of the less qualified staff, which is increasing the gap with the state, is increasing the gap between professional categories and is increasing the gender gap. So I think that reality that you deny is what leads you now to try to make a change in the last year, at least towards the outside, because what to do more with less can be seen as a lie as well. You speak of a sacrosanct constitution, which is the framework of coexistence, the framework that is imposed. It was imposed because it was imposed in a transition where it basically sent fear and where it had to be swallowed up by including in this democracy and in that transition the dictators, the torturers of the regime, and then we saw how the fathers of democracy came from the franchise and the dictatorship itself, as we had here as President Manuel Fraga with all his frank history behind it. And it's also very easy to say that the Constitution must be respected and it is sacrosanct, but when we are interested we have changed it without consulting anyone, as happened in article 135. Therefore, real manipulation. You're told that 80% of the population believes that good or very good Greek public health, the rest, 20% were in the Vigo demonstration, the HULA demonstration in Lugo, the demonstrations and protests in Lugo and Ourense, the lack of palliative care in rural areas or the lack of Ado in most of our territory, or the waiting lists in primary care. And I'm telling you, to me personally the other day in Vigo, Centro de Saúde Pintor Colmeiro, consultation, telephone or presence in seven days, from Thursday to Thursday, there were no appointments in primary care, personally; therefore, you can't tell me that it's not true. As for the education system, you do not speak of the lack of support for children with special needs, not only for the special needs of the dependency, but for children with a terrible problem for the parents, because they are children and children who are overpowered that the system gives them no solution. Austerity to the people and decay to power, as it is seen in the judges. And you said there's about 500 executives in the board, and I say, that's how it goes, lots of sailors and little sailors. All that was kept here were the executive positions of the Board, but the staff who responded to the public services are missing.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-14-DSPG124.u67	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-14-DSPG124.u68	I'm going to finish, Mr. President. You said we're better today than in 2009, and I say to you, especially the unemployed who have been unemployed since 2009, who no longer charge a hard one. You're probably waking up with them when you make that statement, or when you wake up from the poor workers, that wages don't reach them to keep their family, either the farmers or the sailors. Really, when you talk about what we're in a better situation, it's about economic data, but it's not about the social reality of the Greeks and the Greeks. Less unemployment says, we've got less unemployed now...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-14-DSPG124.u69	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-14-DSPG124.u70	Yes, I'll be done. I ask you a little, just like you had with Mr. Puy, who was before half an hour longer, and I ask for a few more seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-14-DSPG124.u71	Yes, but it's out of time. Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-14-DSPG124.u72	The unemployed. Of every worker who is now hired, three workers make the day of a former worker and the wages of a worker prior to the crisis, because the stable work has changed and the full day for temporary and part-time work. So it's clear that everything you're telling us is just visualizing that everything is pure propaganda.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-14-DSPG124.u73	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-14-DSPG124.u74	And, by the way, you're wrong, Mr. President: lowering direct taxes is a real aberration that favors powerful classes, and you're what they do is to increase VAT, which we all pay...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-14-DSPG124.u75	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-14-DSPG124.u76	...and indirect taxes, and came to sell us the direct tax drop. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-14-DSPG124.u77	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-14-DSPG124.u78	Equity!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-14-DSPG124.u79	Excuse me, one more minute. No, no, no, no, no, no. It's one more minute. I'm not responsible for you having to change, that's your problem, one minute more. Parliamentary Group of the Galician Nationalist Block, Mr. Jorquera.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-14-DSPG124.u80	Well, without claiming any discrimination or privilege for this, I hope the president will be a little more flexible with me considering what the chairman of the Galician Union admires. [[Laughter]] In any case, Mr. Feijóo, allow me - although I am not present now - to refer to Mr. Puy's intervention because he also devoted part of the intervention to breaking the positions of the Galician Nationalist Block. By the way, he drew attention to a statement made by Mr. Puy when he said that Citizens were a moderate left-wing party. Well, if for the Citizens' People's Party is a moderate left party, we already know where the People's Party must be located, for example, we know, because in the Spanish state and Galicia there is no party that can be approved by Le Pen, there are those who occupy their space. [[Applause]] But, said this, I agree instead with something Mr. Puy has said. He said that in Galicia we have no problem with sovereignty. Indeed, because sovereignty is not the problem, in Galicia what we have is a problem of centralism. And Mr. Puy and you too, Mr. Feijóo, worry about the alleged costs of Catalonia's independence for Galicia, but don't worry about the costs of centralism for this country: EUR 3,000 million of our taxes that migrate every year; EUR 14,000 million of our savings that migrate every year; the energy policy of Galicia, a concept coined by Mr. Victor Moro, not by the Nationalist Block of Wales; the sanctuating of emigration, training people to then bring their work and their knowledge outside of Galicia. That's what we're concerned about, Mr. Feijóo. Look, Mr. Feijóo, I know who that person you said to see when we had a coffee liquor, and it feels good because I don't confuse your bacon with speed; now, yes, I never make public use of private conversations. Look, I do agree with what Mr. Pérez Royo says about the Constitutional Court. The People's Party, first, I strike at the Constitutional Court and after giving that coup he used the Constitutional Court in a perverse way to amend the plan to which the parliaments had decided and to which he had referred a people in a consultation. But to me what concerns me is the consequences of this whole process of emptying our status to Galicia. Because I've only got ten minutes, it would take me just half an hour to spell out all the articles in the Autonomy Statute that are now wet paper. Financing. You say next year we'll talk about funding, but we had to talk about last year, which was when we played the system review, and you accepted that the law was breached; it's that the whole legislation leads us to put in place a country proposal. The BNG has put forward its proposals, we do not ask for them to be taken on board, but it implements the proposals of the Galician Union and establishes a dialogue with all parliamentary groups. But what do you say? All you do is remember that this review of the financing system was the result of a pact between the PSOE and the Republican Left of Catalonia. But you forget the fundamentals: the Galician Nationalist Block voted against, not you. That's the fundamental thing. We never betrayed Galicia's interests. [[Applause]] Look, with regard to the Greek, the own surveys that you refer to clearly indicate that the objectives set by the law are not being met. Two out of ten children can't speak in English. The law itself states that the objective of the education system must be full linguistic competition in both languages when compulsory education is completed. Ask for concrete proposals, we've done them, we'll repeat them. Look: to repeal that decree, change it as demanded by the educational community. His party adheres to the Bureau's latest proposals for linguistic normalization, they translate that into concrete proposals for language normalization, because of course language knowledge is important. But the normalization of language is mainly the normalization of use, but we've converted English into Latin. Look, it would be endless to enter here in a data debate. I simply make a reminder: I sought to support my entire intervention on behalf of the Galego Nationalist Block in data, in reports, of the Galician Economic and Social Council, of the National Institute of Statistics, of the Galego Institute of Statistics, of Eurostat, of the Banco de España. I understand that you prefer to use the advertising department of the Galician Union, but all the data we provide in our intervention is based on reports from official agencies. And in that sense, Mr. Feijóo, I have to make a point of order: one thing is that if we're starting the recovery measured in increase, for example, of GDP, and the other thing is that we're getting out of the crisis. But in any case, of course, we'll also be out of this crisis, no crisis is eternal, but the problem is at what cost, the problem is that model will result after this crisis. And the cost of your party's policies in Madrid and Galicia is that we're going out of this crisis with a impoverished majority of society and a country also impoverished, in addition, with regard to the state average and the European average. But, look, I'm just going to put an example of the rigour of your data. You said taxively, textually, that the degree of budgetary execution of the Galician Union was 99.9%, that otherwise the targets of the deficit would not have been met. But that's what you said radically contradicted what says the state of execution of the budgets of the Galician Union for 2014 published by the Galician Union. You're contradicting your government's data. But in addition to that state of execution of the budgets of 2014, therefore, the last budgets of those we know their state of execution, says that in investments you only executed just over 72%, that in R+D+i only executed 64.1%, in support of the modernization of our companies 40.8%, in employment you stopped running a euro of three. [[Applause]] See, at home, although in 2009 the housing budget was €180.5 million and in 2005 28.9, a cut of more than 80%, you, for example, in rehabilitation and housing quality promotion policies executed a 7.3% ridiculous. It seems that in our country there are no housing problems, that is social sensitivity, when it turns out that since 2009 more than 8,000 families have lost their housing. Today we know the fact that every day there are still eight evictions in Galicia, and a month ago, just a month ago, in this city a person has committed suicide after he has been the victim of a manifestly unjust death. Returned. Look, indeed, it was a law passed by the PSOE, but who did that negative interpretation for returned migrants and who applied it was his Government. But the relevant thing is that the BNG in both this Parliament and the Congress of Members has put forward proposals for the reform of that law and you voted against it. Health. Look, it's just that you, Mr. Feijóo, really forced us to discuss the evidence. You talk to people, you talk to the sick, you talk to the professionals, even though you often try to confuse our criticisms to your policies with attacks on the professionals, you intend to use professionals as a parapet, when we deserve full respect? I simply ask you one question: if yesterday there was a massive strike of health professionals in Vigo, why was it?, to express in this way the support to the Government for its policies to improve and strengthen public health, Mr. Feijóo? Look, he did the same with the teachers. It has appeared in the teachers, when we criticize their policies regarding public education. You have cut out 2,000 teachers since you are president of the Galician board, liquidated the free textbooks, liquidated the free dining room for transported students, subsidized private concerted centers that segregate on the basis of sex...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-14-DSPG124.u81	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-14-DSPG124.u82	...and uses multilingualism as a pretext, and four out of ten private centers are incorporated into the multilingual system, only one out of ten public. Youth migration. Well, do you have children, Mr. Feijóo? I have, I have and I know my children's friends. Many have gone, others have no other perspective than emigration, the children of many of my friends are out. Please don't argue with the evidence. [[Murmurs.]] Wind sector. You were charged with a system that included public participation and associated investment projects, and the result was the fiasco of the wind sector. And I'm done now, I had quite a few more things to say, but it's ten minutes, just with one last remark, Mr. Feijóo. You spoke this morning of not making speeches to listen to yourself, of humility, of self-criticism, of recognizing mistakes, but then you gave a whole new example of self-comprehension, we didn't hear from you any admission of error, no real criticism. And he gave again an example of his inability to dialogue and, as I have to say, his social insensitivity. Mr. Feijóo, I insist: you represent the past, you cannot embody Galicia of the future. I only give him the reason for one thing: he insisted very much this morning that the cycle was ending, and of course, his political cycle, the political cycle of the People's Party is ending. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-14-DSPG124.u83	Thank you, Mr. Jorquera. Parliamentary Group of the Left Galician Alternative, Mr Beiras.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-14-DSPG124.u84	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Núñez, the lesmas and the vipers are repugnant, human beings have been walking upright since we've been mending to erectus. You made a self-portrait of yours, both in your first intervention and even more in the second. And that self-portrait is what the power to lie, lie, lie comes to believe their own lies and, besides, ignores everything that is not the lies that he says. You said here something that I don't know which came, that if I had again made some opposition to the trade corridor. What, of course, has to do with the debate? Could you perhaps think that I was going to be so stupid or so complicated that I would feel ashamed of an entire university retired professor who when he was young made some opposition to the trade corridor? You're in the same mood as when I said what I played the piano. Sure, playing the piano is for married ladies. That's what you thought when I was a boy in middle-class compostal families. [[Laughter]] Well, of course, I was going back from abroad, I wanted to do a teaching career, it was the eldest of nine brothers, my father was going through a very serious crisis, a trader, and I felt obliged to try and solve my family's economic problem before I made my own journey. And I retired, and it cost me nearly ten more years to win a chair, among other things because I was locked up for being militating underground in the Galician Socialist Party, and therefore expelled in pectore from the university. But that's not enough. I've also made three attempts to win a chair, two loopholes of Political Economy and Public Affairs, and one that finally came out against the prognosis. That's where the Beiras came out, the Beiras, the Beiras, the Beiras, the Beiras that throws at everything. I was told by my friend Carlos Berzosa, who arrived at the rector of Complutense University, who was finishing his career in Somosaguas and said: it was an incredible case, there was a teacher of ours who showed up and we students were all going to listen to the Beers that was breaking up our teacher. But I've never alternated with drug traffickers being a health council post at the time that drug addiction and AIDS were ruining Greek society, as you did. [[Murmurs.]] You do feel ashamed of that, and you never had the courage to solve it, as you feel the shame of being rural, when you should feel proud. It's a compound, but it's your problem. And he has a problem with culture. Goebbels said that every time I hear the word culture, I boot the hand of the gun. You're not, you're getting a repellent. Here, I've tried to focus on a diagnosis of the situation, and I haven't come here to do the trouble to you, you don't deserve it. You as president only inspires contempt and disgust; as a person no, as a person conmixation. But I did it because in the most serious crisis it is the crisis of values of democratic and republican culture, and all analysts who are diagnosing what is happening in the European Union today agree. But that's not good for you, because if you did an analysis, if you discussed that analysis, you would do politics and political debate, instead of coming here to make a relationship like an manager of a cleaning company, which instead of cleaning up messy. Because what is happening in Europe is the core of fascism, there it is! Why did I quote Bradbury and Fahrenheit 451? That's what you know, at least for the film if you haven't read the novel. Because in that reverse world, firefighters were the ones who burned books, firefighters were burning, and that's what you've been doing during the two legislates since Galician Union: burning the country, burning the people alive. [[Laughter]] And you can't admit it, of course! And that's why you have to make up an Alice here in the country of wonders. By the way, the translation into the Greek of this delightful work, allegory – as you wish to call it – or the parable of Lewis Carroll, made by Teresa Barro and Fernando Pérez Barreiro, two generation companions who had to leave at that time, like Ramon Lourís, like Jan Anllo, like Fernández Perezilla when there was a rape. I was lucky, because it turns out that there was a flood of 500,000 young Greek girls in ten years to Europe, which is the beginning of the demographic problem right now. Well, that translation, which he was awarded at the State level of translations, and which now has just been translated into English by an American editorial to make a record of the translations all that were done in the languages of the world, should you try to read it, but I don't think you know. No, because you end up, for example, defining the economy, Lionel Robbins, the connoisseur. Any student of macroeconomics and history of economic thinking knows that Lionel Robbins' definition is not of economics as social science, but of praxeology, a sort of logic of human conduct according to a principle of economics, which is the famous Robinson Crusoe. You don't know what you're talking about when you come here, and it's very serious – and I'm going to end this – because that way of understanding things, if you don't understand them, is what gives you the chance to make the aberration that you systematically do now with the question of who won and who lost the elections. Let's see, we're in a constitutional regime that originally establishes not a bipartisan scheme but a multiparty scheme in the Constitution, among other things because in 1978 with the question of stateless nations or their own political forces, especially the Catalans and the Basques, there was no possibility of making an exact bipartisanism. Then there was going to be a reduction in practice. He's a multiparty, he's not a bipartisan, and therefore the electoral system is proportional, he's not a majority. You are the only political force that represents on the right, all the rest of us are on the left of you, it makes sense that there are more links between the PSOE, We can, the Block, Anova, Left United, than any of us with you. You're alone because you're insulated, you're insulating, because you're absolutely reactionary. So they don't want to understand that the logical thing is that if there are several political forces that have more possibilities between them than one thing, which are you, which are totally antithetic, that there is no way to understand! So most of you aren't the most voted list. There's a right and a left. You're on the right side, and from there those we're not there are on the left of you. They don't want to understand, and you know why? Because they're not interested, because you're now in your philosophy that "the people are idiots" are not able to assume that citizens' mobilization has become more and more, because the gain earners are mobilized with tractors. [[Murmurs.]] The new councillor – she's a flamer – has instigated us to mobilize, so they've made her a counselor, of course, to defend them better! Come here and prove it's a lie. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Yes, speak. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-14-DSPG124.u85	Quiet, please. Finish, Mrs. Beers, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-14-DSPG124.u86	Of course, it's a lie. Lies are yours. Ask the landowners of Melide, ask the landowners of Melide whether it was a lie or if you went out saying those things. [[Laughter]] Or what do you believe, that you are in possession of the truth? [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-14-DSPG124.u87	Finish, Mr. Beers, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-14-DSPG124.u88	Yes, ma'am, but they interrupted me a little bit and I'll finish up with one more thing. Of course, of course, of course. [[Protests.]] [[Murmurs.]] You find that every time... there was a tide of citizens and they were defeated, and it doesn't matter that you had more votes – for example, in Compostela, no, not that – that they had more votes in Coruña or Ferrol. [[Murmurs.]] If they were the other citizens who voted all the others, it was impossible to reconcile them with their theses and with their trajectory and with all that they had done and therefore disagreed. [[Murmurs.]] Or is it that some citizen voter of those who co-connected to Ferrol – with Beatriz Sestayo of Mayor Lieutenant, yes, yes –...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-14-DSPG124.u89	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-14-DSPG124.u90	...or of those who supported the Open Compostela...?...have citizens protested that they were together, that they had made a coalition government?, have they protested for that, are there any protests? You, on the other hand, practice systematic harassment, starting with the Ferrol water scandal, which should only be why... [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-14-DSPG124.u91	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-14-DSPG124.u92	...in the courts. And so you're the boss and you know it. They know they're about to...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-14-DSPG124.u93	Thank you very much, Mr. Beers.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-14-DSPG124.u94	...to finish not only his mandate in the courts and hence in the government of the state, but rather to be the party that represents the right, because already Banco Sabadell and all of them have inflated the globe...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-14-DSPG124.u95	Thank you, Mr. Beers.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-14-DSPG124.u96	...from Citizens, who ate their papas in Catalonia. You're going to be an extra-parliamentary party within very little, and so you're worried.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-14-DSPG124.u97	Socialist Parliamentary Group. You have the word Mr. Méndez Romeo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-14-DSPG124.u98	Mr. President. Perhaps because this Member sees politics as an intellectual passion, therefore, a cold passion, this morning he did not feel the excitement that was nestling in the ranks of his followers during his speech, not even at that emotional moment of his end. However, this afternoon you managed to surprise me – and I say it like you, with affection and with no accuracy – because this afternoon you showed one of your most characteristic faces: sneakyness and statistical juggling – for being soft–. Statistical malabarism, indeed. Mr. President, look, you've even led me into doubt, and not my advisers, but directly where the citizens are going. I just asked for the latest data on the Ministry of Labour page, hey, last EPA, do I have to read it again? 250,000 unemployed – 250,000! –, 90,000 more than the day you arrived; you, with skill, read the unemployment statistics recorded. [[Murmurs.]] Well, it doesn't matter, because what I'm going to have to explain is where the difference is, where are those 35,000 people who, according to EPA, are unemployed and aren't going to register? [[Murmurs.]] They didn't die, you know what happened, that they've already lost all hope -- as I told you this morning -- and they don't mind going to an office where they won't be paid, and where they're going to offer them, so, yes, they're going to do one little school today, tomorrow another, etc. So, rigour, and let's tell the citizens that things are this way. By the way, speaking of EPA, look, this group is roundly opposed to the work reform that you've done. They're also strongly opposed to trade union organizations and I'm sure all the workers who have suffered the consequences. Now, you didn't stay in the job reform, you did something else, you did a citizen security law -- true mordaza law -- to criminalize even the exercise of union rights. We had to take her to the Constitutional Court, of course we had to go there. And they've done more!, they've done a statistical blackout: currently in Spain you can't have official data like there was up to two years ago on precariousness, on minimum interprofessional wages, on vacancies, on job discrimination, on a job day. This, Mr. Feijóo, has something to do with that statistical juggling that we know is not just your business. You tell me about how much you're doing... well, I could also tell you about the survey of last-life conditions where severe poverty also appears as rising in Galicia and how different deficiencies grow, or I could also tell you about health data. But the question is very simple: if everything went so well in the healthcare system, why did they have to remove the advisor? why are they protesting every day workers and users? [[Applause]] Somehow there will be, some more than you want to tell us here. [[Applause]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] By the way, you can manipulate many things, Mr. Feijóo, but that in this government there are only four women of eleven people, except that I don't quite know what sex everyone has, Mr. Feijóo! [[Applause]] And you're talking about the Igape, but how can you talk about the Igape with such lightning? Igape, the year you came in, 2009: 345 million euros; last year: 83 million. But that's not the worst thing, the worst thing is that you only executed 30%, this document is yours, this document is called the State of execution on December 31st, it's your data. Or is your collaborator, the Economic Counsellor? [[Murmurs.]] We have to talk with a little bit more rigour. By the way, Igape's data is there, but there's a lot more about low levels of execution. For example, the investment data, which left one third unexecuted, in six years accumulated 40% unexecuted. And if the data is so splendid, how come companies don't come running to invest in Galicia, how do we have that very low level of investment capture? Mr Feijóo, something more than rigour in addition to the escapism to blame those who have been – which would, of course, lead us to the deepest of history – or to factors beyond your control. So let's go with the statistics, you talk about the debt, and I don't know what, but, look, I'm going to tell you the data again because it's also published: with you it has grown 250%. Because if you want to know about it in GDP – which I saw today with the figures – it was in 7% of GDP and now it's in 18%. By the way, you said something curious this afternoon, you said something curious: the bags; because, look, it's published, it's on the Ministry of Education's website. Or are they already competing – as we see today – ministers and autonomic presidents seeing who's left with the wreckage? The stock exchange policy grew incredibly, of course, with Mr. Zapatero's Government and went down with Mr. Rajoy; and I am not confused: they went down with Mr. Rajoy the scholarships they were granted in Galicia and went down with Mr. Feijóo the scholarships from the Galician board they were granted, and even more those they actually paid. Education GDP expenditure, because it's also low with you, is a constant, every time the right comes down the education expenditure, it's so. Cultural policy. Cultural policy with you is that it doesn't exist. Look, current expenditure: 40% drop; investment expenditure: 60% drop. What's left, for the City of Culture. Ask, ask officials: libraries, archives and abandoned museums; ask the Italian cultural industries, ask the publishing sector, ask the audiovisual sector, and they'll tell you what the situation is. One fact, a surprising fact that you spoke about this morning, you said that you had commissioned a teaching digitization project that will take many years at this pace to be general. Hey, in that project they excluded the Welsh audiovisual industry, they excluded the Welsh publishing industry, two industries that have enough experience, which have prestige outside Galicia and even outside Spain and which, however, you exclude them because what it is about doing something else. We're talking about an area where I might even have a production to put abroad. And you guys when there's a real chance of Industry 4.0, it turns out they don't know. And finally, Mr President, it had to be in the passion of the debate, you were already launched and something escaped. Finally, speaking here and recriminating ourselves to opposition groups that we do not distribute preventatives, subsidies or lobby contracts that we can defend. A little serious, Mr. Feijóo, a little serious. [[Laughter]] [[Murmurs.]] Look, I'm going to talk to you about lobbies briefly and I don't think this is the debate. Lobby is what you care about the adjudication of hospitals in which they exclude, by the way, the Greek companies and they don't get tired of reporting, and we're already discussing it here. Lobby is what you do with ambulance companies – by the way, a friend of the People's Party. Lobby is what you do because, look, with Ferrol's EDAR – I told you – yes, of course, these lobbies have to explain them, because they're the lobbies that receive a state television channel, that receive 600 million euros of compensation that we're going to pay all the Spaniards for 20 years on the gas bill, etc. Then, take a look, behave on these subjects, Mr. President. [[Mr. Núñez Feijóo pronounces words that are not perceived.]] And I don't want to talk to you about the ramifications of these companies with Gürtel, Punica and so on. And finally, don't worry so much about what they tell us in Ferraz, about what they say in Andalusia, about what the Socialist Party says; we're not going to discuss here now about the coupon and the concert, at last, you and we know the difference. There is something that is structural, constitutional, and that is part of the foundation of the state in which we live and there is something that is conjunctural and that we have to debate each even year and, of course, in which there are different positions. That's not what we're going to discuss. But, look, there's a deep discomfort in Spanish society, it measures all the data, it measures the CIS surveys, it measures the perception of people measured by any indicator, and it measures the latest election results. In front of that, Mr. President, this is not solved with a change of government here, or with dances on television sets, etc. We need to address people's problems, we need to address the inequality that has reached unprecedented levels with you. And it is necessary, Mr President, above all, to address a policy that does not place the weight of the crisis on the weakest sectors of society. And you, after six years in Galicia and after four years in the state, the legacy that is leaving us is precisely that: the greatest inequality in modern history and a huge number of excluded citizens who will be part of an exclusion grant in the coming years unless the emphasis on economic and social policies is radically changed. And on this point, Mr President, we would, at least from this group, be grateful if you had spoken more rigorously and above all that you had given a real hope beyond promises in the budgets that have even been questioned by the Executive of Brussels. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-14-DSPG124.u99	Thank you very much, Mr. Méndez Romeo. People's Parliamentary Group. You have the word Mr. Pedro Puy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-14-DSPG124.u100	Thank you very much, Madam President. After listening to some of the appeals we've just heard of who feels contempt and disgust for who was elected by most of the Greeks and because it represents all the Greeks, and after hearing that the president did exercises of juggling and escapism on a statistical subject. We're going to see, both the president and me, in my speech, we recognize that the situation is not like in 2009, but that it's much better than it was in 2013 and 2014. [[Murmurs.]] That's what we're interested in. You left the economy with the cold data, with a job rate, but in fact the Welsh economy and Spanish were a car without brakes that was going down, headed for a precipice, and you went to command without checking that there were brakes, without checking that there was direction and saying nothing happened, that the car would not cost down. And now the car, with its repairs, with its mufflers that must be arranged slowly, the car goes down the floor quietly; and, of course, with the ability to climb up the next port by the highway or by the fast way that will inaugurate the Union soon. [[Murmurs.]] That's the difference, that's the reality, that you left this to save us and that now things are not at the level – obviously, because they can't be at the level of 2008 – but they're improving with respect to the past. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] [[Applause]] And this, at last, is something that seems to me as obvious as when it goes on, as arguments of authority, once again, to friends. It is to me that, at last, Mr. Méndez Romeo, I ask you, indeed, to ask a bit of budgetary execution. The president explained the basic thing, the basic thing is that if you spend 100 percent of your income, because you meet the deficit, then there's no budgetary execution problem in the budget set; what there might be is that there are parts of the budget that run above the budget and parts that run below. And for example, what are the ones that are overrun? Health, education... precisely what we consider to be more important: defending public health, defending essential public goods. Well, here comes another part. You know, Mr. Losada – since he is so willing to help his spokesman – that chapter VII is a chapter that has a special execution because it is not a chapter that runs annually. Precisely what you're saying about Igape are programs that are linked in most of them to multi-year grants of which 90% are already in progress. Obviously, the annual execution does not have to coincide with the execution of everything Igape has to spend, but 90% of multi-year projects are already processed by the board itself. So we learn a little about how to read the execution, especially in European projects, especially in Igape, which have a specific mechanism of execution. [[Mr. Losada Álvarez pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Anyway...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-14-DSPG124.u101	Mr. Losada, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-14-DSPG124.u102	In any case, these displays of personal affection that have dedicated to him some spokesman and some of the criticisms that the President has received is that in this debate it was clear that in Galicia the project of President Feijóo and the People's Party project are those who maintain the initiative, the contact with reality and the illusion for solving the many problems that the crisis has left between us. This seems to me... you talk about change, at last. There were changes in the municipal elections, certainly, and our result was not what we wanted or would like to get. Indeed, there have been changes. What happened? Well, since then this government has done what it did, for example, to approve the Plan of Fight Against Inequities, a social lease bonus, emergency help to avoid light cuts, agreements have been signed with banking entities to ensure that no one is challenged by the non-payment of rent and not just because he has a denial of a bank credit. Of course, these are things that allow people to solve their problems. You guys right now, what you represent, all we know is that you're very frustrated because since the government you can't do what you thought you could do, who thought you could get there, they gave you a magic wand and you could fix all the problems and the PP don't want to fix them because they're bad people. Well, it's not like that. Today we got several proposals, there was a contempt for the family check and I think there's a fundamental difference to Mr. Zapatero's: Mr. Zapatero gave the same check to Mr. Botín and everyone, here they give to families who need it, that is, to those who have a low income, who are exactly the ones who need it most. But we're already used to socialism being the same for everyone, whether it's a Botin, free textbooks, or it's a stopper that has virtually no income, the same resource. [[Applause]] We have another idea of what progressiveity is, what redistribution is, etc. Mr. Jorquera, I want to remind you too, because he said something about the returnees... I want to remember that it was said here -- and no one has denied it -- that a third of the returned emigrants had fulfilled their obligations with Fairy, another third of them were those who didn't know they had to do it, and another third of them didn't have to pay the Fairy because their income was included in what it shouldn't be taxed. So let's not say it was the People's Party that applied something to returned migrants because it's fake. You know that it was the Convention against Fraud between OECD countries that gave the Tax Agency a number of data from people who received income from another country and, in that exchange of information, the Tax Agency acted. But I remember that there were many returnees who were being taxed, many who were being deceived, those have solved the problem with the regularization process so much we have been fighting since Galicia. In the last three months, Junta has called for a new judicial building in Pontevedra, a new health centre in Ourense, the expansion project of the Coast of Burela Hospital, 18 million euros in book aids, 3 million for school materials and 13,000 more school dining rooms. I want to remember that those who now rule in Santiago – it has been mentioned directly – have mounted our dear education advisor, little less than they called it insensitive, cruel, child murderer because we said that the school dining rooms should be opened, that they had opened, but what social services were telling us is that it was not recommended. It's been three months, it's happened in summer, they haven't opened a single school dining room. So one thing is to help people and another thing is to say here that we don't do anything, to say that it's going to be done and then, when it comes to power, to do nothing. Measures to promote unemployment, including reform of public procurement control. Anyway, this is what we've been doing since the municipal elections. People have asked for more participation, the councillor of Fairy is piloting a strategic plan 2015-2020 participatory and with the collaboration of experts. On this subject, Mr. Méndez, on behalf of the PSOE, said it would be interesting to make a serious plan with experts, which is already carrying out the new advisor. What would be good is that the PSOE should clarify which economic policy it likes. In the full past, the Socialist Party said that the Varofakis Plan that Mr.Beiras had defended for the European economy was fully in line with this study – that of Varofakis – and shared solutions that had been made to it. I'm actually a little surprised that someone from the Socialist Party had said that, I want to remember that Varofakis has already been stopped by Mr. Tsipras, who is what they call a retired hero and is what betrays the established originals to stay in power and cut off Mr. Varofakis' head. The case is that Mr Varofakis is outside of the Tsipras Government, Mr Tsipras is not paying his pensions because he cannot even raise the minimum wage, privatisations in Greece are still underway and the humanitarian crisis will be resolved if he meets the deficit. I understand it's something surprising that the PSOE here supports the Tsipras plan. Let's see if we have an opportunity in the Strategic Plan to speak a little seriously and we can reach some agreement. It would also be interesting to know what is the version of the Socialist Party's fiscal policy. Today, the President proposed a reduction of the IRPF, a substantial reduction in the inheritance tax for middle-class families and another absolute tax exemption from payment by documented heritage transmissions and legal acts from agricultural and forestry farms in rural areas. Not a word. Let's hope to see in the budgets whether these people in the opposition groups believe these measures are positive or not. But, of course, the political initiative and the action initiative to get out of the crisis, to improve rural areas, to encourage middle classes and to give more purchasing power and more capacity for consumption to families with a downside of the IRPF is clear that they are on the side of the People's Party. When the Socialist Party left the Government in 2011, a person who earned 15,000 euros in base paid 1,262 and after the reform of the People's Party will pay 959, 303 euros less. A person who entered a million euros with the Socialist Party in 2011 paid 437,000 euros, now with the PP he will pay 438,463 euros. Mr. Méndez, let's see, your IRPF tariff was much less progressive than the People's Party is now, I'm not going to talk about what you applied in the crisis. The rich pay more than they pay with you and those who earn less pay less than they pay with the Socialist Party. You say these things of progressiveity, but I think, once again, without paying attention to facts, data, factual realities. I understand that to promote tourism one can say that it ceases to celebrate Holy Week, to be able to celebrate Holy Week in the streets, and then to go back. Tourism can also be supported by giving Santiago's Way a master plan and 17 million to restore Santiago's cathedral. I think it's more useful the second. That's what some people have done and what we've been doing since the municipal elections. Some people believe that democratic regeneration is to make a promise of failure to comply with laws, to declare themselves unsubmitted to the laws that they themselves, on their own, consider to be unfair...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-14-DSPG124.u103	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-14-DSPG124.u104	...and there are those who believe that regeneration is to approve laws of democratic impulse, of prevention of corruption, such as those we have just approved in this House – by the way, without the support of any of those who are coming to re-establish political life – and we are going to process the announced Transparency Law as well. I think democratic politics is more than just taking out the tie and replacing it with a shirt of paintings, as much as I'd rather walk in a shirt of paintings than in a tie. Politics is much more, it requires prudence, it requires rigour and it requires stability. [[Murmurs.]] A well-known university professor...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-14-DSPG124.u105	Finish, please, Mr. Puy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-14-DSPG124.u106	...–without a finish, President – Greek with a square at the University of Barcelona, Antón Costas, recently said that it takes more courage today to be moderated than to be radical. Well, with all the courage and strength of moderation, president, we will continue to work to get Galicia out of the crisis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-14-DSPG124.u107	The President of the Council has the floor to close the debate.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-14-DSPG124.u108	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we hear five opposition speeches, but no alternative to the Government. If we put together all his interventions, summarizing all sorts of criticisms, disqualifications, contradictions, if we put together the five interventions of the opposition, they don't add up to a government. Ladies and gentlemen, Galicia did not like a government between two, but really between that two-party government and the five oppositions now there are huge differences of all kinds. What if I can assure you, ladies and gentlemen, is that if Galicia did not like the bipartisan it will never have a government among five parliamentary groups, between five parties, between five divisions and five flaps. [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]] Galicia has had a government all these difficult years and will have a stable government for all that remains of legislation. That's why we're moving forward, and that's why we keep moving forward. You spend the day talking about joining a coalition, if you go two, if you go three, if those who went together turn out to be separated from the general elections, if, on the contrary, those who were separated now turn out to be going together. [[Murmurs.]] Ladies and gentlemen, they don't intend to put Galicia in their disagreements and in their fights. They laugh at people, yes, they laugh at people, they insult people, and I don't understand why. Because the fact that Galicia doesn't vote for them, the fact that Galicia has never entrusted any of the opposition parties with greater votes than the Galician People's Party, is not a cause for quarreling people or angering people. They shouldn't ask whether or not I'll follow within 12 months, what should be asked is what you've done in the last seven years in the opposition in Galicia. That's what I think the Greeks have to know, and that's what I think after this debate no Welsh can say exactly for seven years in the opposition. Some, with our successes and, no doubt, with our mistakes, we were next to a stable government and a responsible government. Ladies and gentlemen, the crisis has happened in front of you all and at nothing have helped the Government in the last seven years, in nothing. No proposal, no concrete proposal. [[Murmurs.]] Ladies and gentlemen, they say they have all the solutions, but they haven't given one. They say they know the answer to all the questions, although they've changed all the questions. Ladies and gentlemen, to disqualify this Parliament directly, as we see it again, is to miss it with regard to democracy. And democracy does not mean that you should always be given the reason; democracy consists, Your Honor, of voting and that the Government brings proposals to the House and in the House votes on behalf of citizens. We have heard from you that this year that is falling from legislation is insufficient, but it will be insufficient for those who have wasted seven years of opposition, it will be insufficient for those who have now wasted these last three years of legislation. Neither did the Greeks nor did this government, will be taken advantage of this remaining legislative room. The Greeks reached goals that seemed unattainable and were not by their side all they should be, simply gentlemen, because in most matters they were deleted; they were simply not when the Greeks needed the opposition groups. Here is a government that has exercised since the first day and will continue to exercise until the last day of its term of office. Do we make difficult decisions? No doubt about it. We had to say many times that not so that now we can start saying yes. Were there any hits? No doubt. And also mistakes? You too. But Galicia had a government, had a stable government throughout the legislation, and would have a stable government until the legislation was finished. [[Applause]] These twelve months, ladies and gentlemen, we're going to continue pursuing those goals. We will continue to strive for unemployment to continue to decline and the economy to grow. We will continue to strive for recovery to reach everyone, because we know perfectly well that recovery did not reach all the Greek homes, with support measures, firstly, to the most disadvantaged and helping families who have work we know it costs them to come to the end of the month. We will continue to strive to return the efforts that have been made by the Greeks in recent years, and that is why we will lower the income tax for physical people, especially for the lowest incomes, and so, for the first time in Galicia, we will not pay the inheritance tax and prayers tax for 99% of the Greeks, because it was a commitment, and the commitments when you can meet there is no justification for not fulfilling them. We will continue, ladies and gentlemen, by working to ensure that there are public services, public health and public social services that respond not to today's problems, but to tomorrow's problems. [[Applause]] We will continue to strive, ladies and gentlemen, because the reason for being a government is the people, the people today and especially the people of the morning – I insist – and so when we put forward a proposal for the children and the children of Greece, so that they have greater social support that has never given a Government in Galicia, that they have more health benefits and that they have more opportunities for education, we are simply doing our duty. For a rural, yes for a rural, too, as a space for the future, to leave a more orderly territory to the people who must inherit us. Ladies and gentlemen, the important thing is not the future of anyone we're here, don't be mistaken, no, no. Here in politics, whoever it is, it's passing through, what remains is the country. Think less of vows, ladies and gentlemen, and think more of people. What matters is neither me nor you, what matters is Galicia, and Galicia will continue to work because of this government we will do nothing but work for Galicia. [[Applause]] Therefore, Your Honor, I am surprised that we continue to discuss matters, Mr. Jorquera, simply for discussion. Look, I asked for the data, since you are now talking to me about statistics – from Eurostat, the National Institute of Statistics, the Galego Institute of Statistics – I specifically asked for the young people's data. For the boys, Mr. Jorquera, the boys – let me say it strictly – who left Galicia were exactly 99,196 and the boys who entered Galicia in the same period were 108,804, that is, entered Galicia 9,608. So, Mr. Jorquera, this is the data from the Galego Institute of Statistics. And I'm just proposing that you don't try to cheat the population in general, that you've entered more than you did during the crisis, or the boys, who also came in more than you did during the economic crisis. Ladies and gentlemen, of course, we must never distort reality in any case. Look, Mr. Jorquera, when you mention that there was previously free in the dining rooms for all those who were on school transport, it's true, which was surprising: those who were on school transport had the dining rooms free and those who didn't have school transportation. Exactly, what is the criterion? It doesn't seem that the criterion is that besides having a school transport, you should have a dining room, and what you don't have a school transport, you don't have a dining room. That's why today there's more freeness and that's why today there's more equity in school dining squares than there was just a discriminatory model for people who didn't have school transportation. [[Applause]] I'm sorry, Your Honor, I can't answer what you're gone to, because you're usually not, and because you're not and you don't care about the German Parliament, where it's been longer than any of us here, it's very hard to answer what you're not. And as far as that person is concerned, even if he has no respect for the House, the Government, or his president, I'm not going to ask anything about his intervention. If the Greeks had the opportunity to see it, they would see a member of the House laughing at all for so long. But that, of course, is your responsibility, not mine. [[Applause]] Mr. Méndez Romeo, speaking of escapism or statistical juggling, I repeat all the data I gave to the House: unemployment rate EPA, Galicia unemployment rate 20%, Spain 22.4%, 2.4 points less than in the rest of Spain; unemployment rate 2015, second known quarter of the EPA, 18,400 more busy than a year ago – EPA–. You want to pick up registered unemployment or don't want to pick it up, but registered unemployment exists: we have 63,000 unemployed less than when this legislation started, 63,000 unemployed less on registered unemployment; 22,466 unemployed less than in 2014, 45,000 unemployed less than in 2013, 43,000 unemployed less than in 2012, 17.000 unemployed less than in 2011 and 358 unemployed less than in 2010. That's the unemployment data. If you've taken the statistics from the Ministry of Labour, you can see that what I'm saying is just reading those statistics. And when you talk about affiliation, I'm going to repeat your data: we have 20,800 affiliates more than in 2014, 31,600 more than in 2013 and 5,700 more than in 2012. I don't know why it bothers you that some data is positive for Galicia, for me, of course, what encourages me is to keep working for Galicia. [[Applause]] Friends, ladies and gentlemen, speak to me, Mr. Méndez Romeo, of the Igape and tell the respective advisor that we have not enough budget in the Igape. Look, Mr. Méndez Romeo, do you know that in the last four months of the two-party government they gave 53 assets for an amount of 105 million euros?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-14-DSPG124.u109	Mr. Losada, you have no word. Please do it! Am I gonna have to call you in order at this hour?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-14-DSPG124.u110	"The money from the Igape is to give a government to function and to a government when it convenes elections." We already know what Igape's money is for, and I'm convinced you don't agree with this kind of statement. [[Murmurs.]] But what is true is what we had to pay, for example, 32 million euros of Alfageme...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-14-DSPG124.u111	A call to order.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-14-DSPG124.u112	...and other millionaires of other companies. And that's why, Your Honor, we had less money, because we just had to spend the money paying for the puppies we inherited from Igape. That's why, Your Honor, it's not reasonable for you to bring these ideas this way. [[Murmurs.]] You know that the multiannual programmes of the Economic and Industrial Council are normally, when the budget is implemented, the multiannual grants that are intended to support investments, and so until the multiannual grants are implemented you have to be budgeted enough to be able to later pay the grant that is in progress. And that's why there can be some disquisition, which is not any juggling, on the contrary, it's simply having adequately provided the multi-year grants of the Economic and Industry Council, which in the process involve the execution of 90% of the budget. Mr. Méndez Romeo, with all due respect, I don't think you should open the debate of public debt. I repeat the data: we are the second Autonomous Community where public debt has been reduced since 2008 in absolute terms, the second, where it has increased less, and we are the third, where it has increased in terms of GDP. Your Honor, we have a public debt of five points below the average of the autonomous communities of Spain. Exactly, what's the reproach? Your Honor, Galicia has actually increased its debt by 158 per cent from 4,000 million to 10,210. The total number of autonomous communities, the average was 241%. Does it mean we've made the evolution of Andalusia's public debt, which has increased by 266%? Do you intend to take Asturias, which has increased by 391%? Exactly, what is it that reproaches us, Mr. Méndez Romeo? The GDP debt ratio is 18.7%. In Spain, the average of autonomous communities is 23.7%. Catalonia owes itself to the GDP of 33.9%. What kind of model do you propose? If we had a public debt like the average of the autonomous communities, we would now have 2,700 million more public debt. And I could come to this rostrum simply say that we have the same public debt as the rest of the autonomous communities and we could have an additional €2.7 billion. Do you think that if what we proposed today is electoralism, we couldn't use the 2.7 billion more public debt to make electoralism? Well, no, Your Honor. We're going to comply because the Greeks taught us how to comply, and we're going to comply and we're not going to owe the country and we want to leave a solvent country. You said, Mr. Jorquera said in his speech, that we were unable to maintain self-government, that we were not able to keep Galicia up during these years. Was there a government with greater difficulties than these, Mr. Jorquera? Have we not shown that Galicia with all its statutory competences has been able to maintain itself despite the fact that most autonomous communities have been rescued by the State? Were we not mature enough to tell our people that we had to arrive at the end of the month because we didn't want our self-government to intervene? Were we not the owners of our treasury and the decision of what we paid during the economic crisis, just because we didn't give ourselves up to a public debt that would assume the country's intervention? Would the nationalists allow me now to be the president of an intervened Galicia? Are we not going to take that into account, not even appreciate the effort that has been made over all these years? I don't think it's appropriate in any case to start discussing public debt, because when we arrived in the Government the public debt in Galicia was higher than the average of the autonomous communities, and today it's less than five points according to the autonomous communities. That's it, Your Honor, what we thought. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, I repeat, Mr. Méndez Romeo, with all cordiality that statistics are those that are. If you want to take EPA, the active population survey, take it. I suppose you'll also want to take the registered unemployment, but the truth is your government in the last year has increased unemployment by 54,000 people in a year. It wasn't easy, first, to stop this trend, then to start a process of decreasing unemployment and now to be able to say in the last debate of the state of Autonomy of this ninth legislation that we have 63,000 people less targeted at unemployment than when the legislation began. I think, Your Honor, that these things are important. That's why they don't discuss so many people's things that they want to go to Madrid now. I insist: part of Greek nationalism is installed at the Complutensian University of Madrid, and they do not discuss the future so much. Look, ladies and gentlemen, the future is over, and it's not Galicia, and my commitment to Galicia will never happen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-10-14-DSPG124.u113	Thank you very much. Before suspending the meeting, please inform that parliamentary groups may submit up to 40 motions for resolutions per group, in accordance with Rule 141a of the Rules of Procedure and with the agreement of the Bureau, heard by the Speakers' Committee on 6 October, before 10.30 a.m. on Thursday, 15 October, in the General Registry of the House. Subsequently, the Bureau will proceed at 12 hours to its qualification and distribution to the groups of all the proposals admitted. Finally, the deadline for the submission of the proposed transactions and the request for separate groupings or votes from the proposals will end on Thursday 15 October at 22.30 p.m. We'll stop the session until Friday at 11 o'clock. Good night, thank you very much.
