ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u1	Good morning, gentlemen. Please take your seats. Let us resume the session with questions for the oral answer of the President of the Council of Galicia. He asked Mr. President of the Galician Council of Mr. José Luis Méndez Romeu of the G.P. of the Galician Socialists, on the policies developed by the Government of Greece to support the productive sectors
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u2	You have the word to ask your question Mr. José Luis Méndez Romeo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u3	Mr President, we're talking about productive sectors, and I want to start with milk. Galicia is the engine of the Spanish dairy sector with more than half of the farms, 40% of production, 20,000 direct jobs and 30,000 indirect jobs. There is a minimum of industrial economic activity, services in the rural region, where there is milk production. Where there is no milk production, there is practically no more life in the field. The Board should have made it clear three matters that you have never been able to defend. Firstly, the dairy sector is strategic in terms of economic employment and sustainability of the territory. There is no alternative to milk in large areas of the Greek countryside. It's not like that in the rest of the state, Mr. Feijó. You have 90% of your milk skills. And in the 10% that the State has, you should have the slightest political weight to condition state politics and at least not to make any prejudicial decisions for the German sector. None of this has been done by you, nor by your advisor, nor by your advisor, nor by your advisor's team, has such qualities to do. The data is dramatic. Or if you quickly reverse the situation or thousands of farms will disappear. Here are a lot of initiatives, proposals. You've rejected them all absolutely. And what we told them here was the same thing the sector told them, that they were told by cooperatives, that they were told by agricultural organizations and even industry. The advisor is informed and does not even have time to receive agricultural organizations when asked for an interview. That's when he doesn't blame the gainers directly. Ministry of Agriculture, minimum sustainable price of milk, official data: 0.34 euro/litre; Galicia, average last year 0.30; average this year, 0.27. Today it's between 0.23 and 0.26, and in some cases – and I have contracts here – they're offering 0.21. Mr. Feijó, these are the lowest prices in Europe. How far do they have to keep holding our farms? You don't even deserve a meeting with the advisor? And, above all, do you have any ideas, any proposals to make to the sector in front of the relief signal they've been making to you for months?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u4	Thank you, Mr. Méndez Romeo. The President of the Board has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u5	Thank you very much, Madam President. Your Honor, the dairy sector is key to Galicia, especially for rural areas. Also the wood sector, the lordship, the fisheries sector and the seafood sector, and the stone sector and the slate sector. All sectors are fundamental and that's why I'm surprised that you only believe that in the rural sector we work with milk. The meat sector, too, Your Honor. A year ago you asked me about the situation of the productive sectors in Galicia. I have to tell him they're better today than a year ago. I have to tell you, Your Honor, that the productive sectors in Galicia today have much more future than when I assumed the presidency of the Union in 2009. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Murmurs.]] Your Honor, she says that the rural councillor doesn't receive agricultural organizations. She doesn't just get them, so do I. On two occasions, the agrarian organization you bring to the House, because the rest of the agrarian organizations certainly don't care about you, only one worries you. Well, that one that concerns you, the president of the board received it twice. And you have no drawback to continue to receive it as many as you consider appropriate. We were still talking to the agrarian organization you referred to. That's why, Your Honor, gives me the feeling that the milk data you don't have complete, it usually happens. Your Honor, the total milk production in Galicia has increased by 80 million liters over the last ten years, more than 4%. The average farm production in Galicia rose nothing more and nothing less than 230 per cent, more than 210,000 kilograms, the average farm production. And the number of cattle per farm in Galicia rose by over 55%. So the livestock are getting organized, and the sector is stronger today than it was a few years ago. The prices for milk, Your Honor, are true that in February, January and March 2015 are not good. But you forget that between 2010 and 2014 the price of milk in Galicia, average price, rose by 21%, between 2010 and 2014; the advisor was advisor and I was president by 21%. From 28.9 cents to 35, average milk price in recent years. The important price, in addition, is the cost, and the costs dropped by 17% in 2012. So it's not worth the price of milk being too high if the costs are too high, so what's the matter is that between the price and the cost the farmer can live with dignity. Your Honor, the quotas are gone. Obviously, the Socialist Party knows perfectly well. When they were ruling in Madrid, they accepted the European Union's proposals to liberalise milk. Yes, Your Honor, they have accepted the proposals of the European Union. Maybe they didn't even know what they were voting for, but they voted for it. Your Honor, what we're working on is with them, with producer organizations...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u6	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u7	...with the moneywinners. We are not leaving this sector, Your Honor, this sector has the assurance that for this government and for this president this sector is key to the Greek economy. And I will give everything I have to give from the government and from my responsibilities to defend this sector. By the way, Your Honor...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u8	Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u9	...better than the Socialist Party. Thank you very much, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u10	Replica by Don José Luis Méndez Romeo, by the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u11	You mean you're going to give 8 million euros to an insolvent company again? You were the ideologist of the only industrial operation that made Joine: Milk Food. You needed to control it ferretly, and by whining it was imposed that it had been run by two political charges of the People's Party. Today they are doomed to return their unsorbed wages, the company is disbanded, they owe money to the gain and the workers are fired, even Igape and XesGalice are listed as creditors. Is there any self-criticism about it, Mr. Núñez Feijóo? Because everything you said has happened in spite of the German Government, or are you going to suck at the oil price drop? The large distribution is using milk as a claim, the industry is transferring the losses to the owners. It's manifestly illegal. You and the central government don't know each other or look elsewhere. While other countries were encouraging production to cope with the liberalisation after quotas, the Counsellor was amassing the owners with a possible super-production super-tax, virtually non-existent. We told you that the regulations of the milk package were not useful as a negotiating instrument, it took nine months to modify it. It's still useless. The yellow gainees are receiving today – from everywhere I am – contracts in which they are, whether they want or not, the clause that they renounce a year's contract and accept two or three months' contracts, under the threat of not collecting more than 80% of their production. While France and Germany were encouraging production to cope with the current situation, here the price is dropped and even the collection is not guaranteed. Mr Feijóo, it was your disappointment that led us to this situation, which is unpublished in Spain and unpublished in Europe. You said on a historic occasion that a litre of milk...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u12	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u13	...it should be worth no less than a few gums. Mr. Feijóo, do you have any real proposals for the dairy sector today?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u14	Thank you very much. The President of the Board has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u15	Thank you, Madam President. Your Honor, when the oil goes down it's as a result of any exogenous agent, and when the milk prices drop down, and when the milk prices drop down, it's Mr. Feijóo's fault. [[Murmurs.]] We're used to all this, as it is natural I'm already used to it. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] When the costs of producing a holding are lower, it's in spite of the government, and yet when the milk prices are lower, it's because of the Government. You don't understand anything about what's going on in New Zealand or what's going on in other massive milk production countries. [[Murmurs.]] I understand you're laughing, ladies and gentlemen. It's the same way as when we thought about making towers to make milk powder. You laughed, and now it turns out that even organizations accept that this is a useful proposal. And now it turns out, Your Honor, that when we made a contract to provide the United States of Mexico and we weren't able to give it the right price, you laugh, because they said that they wanted to export milk if we didn't consume everything we produced in Spain. Look, ladies and gentlemen, continue with that policy, which will take the gainers just to the absurdity. We're going to continue with the same, we're going to keep trying to produce milk in Galicia. Because quotas were liberalized when you were in Europe. And now we have to deal with this. Your Honor, the only government that made a complaint to the Competition Market was us, the only one. And the Competition Market has acted and has multiplied the industries. We will continue to pursue the dumping industries, we will continue to inspect the large areas to see exactly why they sell milk at that price. We'll continue to see the tanks coming from Portugal on the border to know exactly where they come from and what the prices are. Your Honor, we're going to continue with Galicia, because the mayors of Galicia, most of the PP, are much more concerned about the dairy sector than the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party. [[Applause]] Look, ladies and gentlemen, we've passed three royal decrees, there's a complete regulation of the dairy sector right now. We're going to put an end to abusive commercial practices, no doubt. There's an obligation to sign contracts, not with you. There's the mediator figure, not you. And we're going to continue to work, without any doubt, to receive any kind of complaint on either side or on our own, and to investigate the tanks coming from Portugal. We're going to keep working because we're next to the gain. Your Honor, does the price of milk concern us? No doubt. We will support any initiative in the dairy sector, anyone. Any proposal that comes from a company to make milk in powder we'll support it, if you have a minimum...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u16	It's over, president.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u17	...of economic profitability and financial support. Your Honor, I repeat, look......there is one obvious thing. [[Mrs. Gallego Calvar speaks words that are not perceived.]] Doing a...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u18	Mrs. Gallego, you have a call to order.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u19	Your Honor, it's true that we've been six years, and that's why I said the price of milk has risen by 21%...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u20	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u21	...between 2010 and 2014. I suppose that'll be quite a reasonable question to consider. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u22	Finish, President, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u23	Mr. Romeo... thank you. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I'm saying that by reviewing all your proposals on the productive sectors, there's only one coincidence: there's no trace of any support from the Socialist Party... [[Interruptions.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u24	Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u25	...there is no trace of any proposal from the Socialist Party. Thank you very much, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u26	Thank you very much. Ask Mr. President of the Galician Council of D. Francisco Jesus Jorquera Caselas, of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, about the activity of Ence in the district of Pontevedra
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u27	You have the word to put your question to Mr. Jorquera Caselas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u28	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Feijó, at the last control session you made a statement depicting him as ruler. When we asked him how he felt that the Greek economy was in line in 2014, he said that none of the causes depend on his government. So, what's your government for, Mr. Feijóo? Unless, of course, you make your own, too, the famous sentence of Cospedal: "We're working a lot to plunder this country." [[Laughter]] Look, you don't claim skills or exercise what you have. You've talked about the industry's misbehaving, but don't you have any industry competences? You said that the situation was also due to the evolution of the rate of energy production, but did you not accept legal reforms that sentenced our renewables to death? A Welsh electric fare, by the way, that would also benefit from Ence, which is a large electric consumer. He's talking about using the forest industry, because he's wondering how we can produce 40% of wood and most of the furniture is imported. And what do you offer as a great solution? May Ence continue to contaminate Pontevedra's creek. And he tries to justify this false solution by falsifying Pontevedra's reality, in a population-bleeding country, the most reinvigorated and with more vegetative growth. That's yes, to conceal, so that you don't say that you're a delegate of Ence in Galicia, so that you don't say that you're trying to return the favors of Ence for having placed in your board of directors in recent years a long payroll of former PP charges – Carlos del Alamo, April Martorell, Isabel Tocino, etc. – says that, if there are no environmental guarantees, there will be no favorable reports. But you have also accepted an amendment to the Law of Costs which extends concessions in public domain for another 75 years, Mr. Feijóo, and even if a favourable report from the Autonomous Government is mandatory, the Central Government reserves the right not to consider it. So, Mr. Feijóo, do you really think that the solution to Galicia's problems is that Ence continues to pollute the Pontevedra River? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u29	Thank you very much. The President of the Board has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u30	Your Honor, when we talked about the evolution of the German GDP which for the first time grows – certainly under the average of Spain, but grows by 0.5% – it suggested that one of the reasons was the behavior of the automotive sector. Now you want to make me responsible for Citroën producing fewer cars than in other periods, I suppose now you'll congratulate me because Citroën is going to produce more cars than last year, more than 15,000. Therefore, Your Honor, I think we must maintain some seriousness in the political discourse. [[Murmurs.]] Just as the president of the board is not responsible for the car industry producing more cars in Galicia, he's not responsible for producing less. But in any case, Your Honor, I thank you for starting to talk about Ence. He's worried about the electric fare of Ence, I see that you have some extra sensitivity and that's good. Tell me if I'm gonna admit that Ence is still polluting the creek now. Look, Your Honor, this is the resolution of April 30, 2008, where your government has given you the environmental impact statement integrated to Ence. You want to tell me that in 2008 Ence did not pollute the river and now it's contaminated, Your Honor? [[Murmurs.]] They gave you an integrated environmental impact declaration valid for four years until 2011 and beyond, which can be extended. [[Explained words not perceived]] You mean to tell me that in 2008 you didn't worry about Pontevedra's laugh and now if you're worried about Pontevedra's laugh? Look, Mr. Jorquera, at any rate, I like to talk to you about Galicia, perhaps more than other spokespersons because Galicia's spokespersons are less concerned. I have, as you might imagine, the responsibility of leading the Government right now and making decisions, but there are certain decisions I would like to share with people who want to be serious about Galicia. Look, Your Honor, we were talking about the dairy sector, now we're talking about the forest sector, I appreciate it. It's 3% of Galicia's gross domestic product, it's 3,000 companies, it's 20,000 direct jobs, it's 30,000 indirect jobs. It is therefore good for this Parliament to speak of the Greeks, of the Greek families, Your Honor. As for Ence, there are 800 jobs, 10% of Pontevedra's gross domestic product, and Pontevedra is the city where unemployment has increased most in recent years. What we're talking about, ultimately, is to open a serious reflection on what we want for the forest sector and what we want for Pontevedra, which I think is logical. For you, the Ence did not contaminate in 2008. Your Honor, I can assure you that to authorize the environmental solution for Ence we are going to be more strict than the bipartisan in 2008, more strict, Your Honor. And so at this point, I propose that we reflect together... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u31	Go finish, please, president.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u32	...to make a decision, because there is only one possible decision: either the Ence closes or the Ence is maintained, overcoming the strict environmental controls. In that decision, in that crossroads, I'd like to know what your opinion is. Thank you very much, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u33	Thank you very much. Mr. Jorquera Caselas' reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u34	Look, Mr. Feijóo, two previous remarks. First, stop falsifying the reality of the city of Pontevedra, I invite you to read a comparative study of the situation of the seven Greek cities made by the Faculty of Social Sciences of the University of Vigo and you will see how the reality is falsifying. [[Murmurs.]] Secondly, whenever we want to put in place the two-party control sessions in this Parliament, but now you have to answer for your government. [[Applause]] [[Murmurs.]] Look, Mr. Feijóo, do you have your priorities clear, are you clear about your commitments? Because he said in 2009: "PPdEG has clear priorities: we want to recover for the enjoyment of citizens and for their environmental recovery the maritime facade of the left bank of the Pontevedra River. We have very clear what our commitments are: to ensure that the transfer of Ence is done inside, that is, the district of Pontevedra.", page 79 of your program, Mr. Feijóo. [[Murmurs.]] Do you have a word, Mr. Feijóo? Because look at what he said in 2012: "PPdEG keeps his bet because He abandons his current placement," page 197 of the program he competed with, Mr. Feijóo. [[Murmurs.]] Look, if you really want to value the forest industry, you question a model where we put the raw material and other activities that generate wealth and added value, instead of betting on a model that imposes the forest monoculture, a monopoly model, Mr. Feijóo, where Ence imposes prices by ruining the producers; I don't know if you know you have a price pact with Celbi to split up Galicia and Portugal, Mr. Feijóo. A predatory model of resources, of public resources because it occupies public domain land and still benefits above a 95% drop in the water canon. A predatory model of land and natural resources, Mr. Feijóo, predator of jobs, Mr. Feijóo, because Ence destroys many more jobs than he creates.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u35	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u36	Abandon the rotational doors, Mr. Feijóo, act as President of the Government of Galicia and not as delegate of the Ence. He defends Galicia's interests because it is incompatible with a sustainable environment and other economic and productive uses, a cellulose on the edge of a river in Galicia and Conchinchina, Mr. Feijóo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u37	Thank you very much, Mr. Jorquera. The President of the Board has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u38	Your Honor, you say that I don't know the reality of Pontevedra, as I know it so I make this proposal. I understand that when a prize is to be collected in Dubai – which is one of the most human rights-protective countries – or when a prize is to be collected in New York – which is undoubtedly one of the most socialist countries in the world – because one sometimes really forgets where he lives. But finally, while you're going to Dubai and New York, I live in Galicia and I'm worried about the Greeks and the Greek families, that's the big difference between you and me. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Applause]] Your Honor, you tell me this is a bipartisan control session; no, Your Honor, this is a coherence control session. If you authorize in 2008, by means of an integrated environmental statement, and ensure that Ence is not pouring into the river and that Ence is not... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u39	Mrs. Pontón, Mrs. Pontón!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u40	Your Honor, they want to call a liar a file of more than 40 sheets signed by the bipartisan.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u41	I'm sorry, president. Mrs. Pontón, you don't have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u42	It's just amazing...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u43	Mrs. Pontón, you have a call to order. Sorry, President, you can go on.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u44	I'm used to everything, President, but I'd just like a little dignity from the House... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u45	Go on. Go on, president.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u46	...not for me, Your Honor, but for the Greeks who listen to us every day. [[Applause]] Yes, Your Honor, you're telling me about the electoral program I'm holding. And I read literally, you also read it: "keep the bet that Ence abandons his current placement, considering it to be irrevocable after his activity in the district of Pontevedra." And now, Your Honor, we have to make that decision, indeed, because the law has changed. You say that the Law of Back allows to maintain industries in the field of public domain, throughout Spain, all over Spain... Secondly, what do you think about keeping the canteens in the field of public domain?, are you also against?, are you in favour of keeping the canneries in the field of public domain? We've moved on a little bit, Your Honor. [[Murmurs.]] So at this point, what we have to ask is very clearly what decision we have to make, there is no medium term, Your Honor: either Ence out of Galicia or Ence in Pontevedra with the maximum environmental guarantees; there is no medium term, we don't start fooling people again. Your Honor, the alternative to Ence is not the transfer, it is the closure. We have to say it in Pontevedra and we have to say it in Galicia: the alternative of Ence is not the transfer, it is to close Ence and we have no paper processing industry in Galicia. There's no room for ambiguity, no room for demagogy, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u47	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u48	Or do we tell 800 families living in Ence that they're going to be out of work? Or do we tell 20,000 people who live from the woody exploits that their wood, which is already down, will come down again because we have to take all the wood produced in Galicia and take it to Asturias? Where, by the way, there is a Government of the Socialist Party and of the United Left, for the time being, who has already authorized the expansion of Navia to take the installations of Cence in Pontevedra. Your Honor, we're going to get the maximum assurances, all of us.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u49	It's over, president.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u50	Maximum employment guarantees and maximum environmental guarantees. Your Honor, I am more concerned about Pontevedra than Dubai and New York. Thank you very much, Your Honor. [[Applause]] Ask Mr. President of the Galician Board of Da Yolanda Díaz Pérez, G.P. of the Alternative Left Galician government forecast to remedy the impoverishment of workers
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u51	Please, I'm evicted. Quietly, evicted. Please unload the hemicycle quietly. Well, let's go on. To put the question, you have the floor to Mrs. Díaz Pérez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u52	Good morning, Madam President. Good morning, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u53	I'm sorry. [[Mrs. Adam Villamarín speaks words that are not perceived.]] Please, Mrs. Adam, have the floor to Mrs. Díaz to ask her question. Let's go on. Mrs. Díaz, please ask your question.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u54	Good morning, Madam President. Good morning, Mr. Feijó. You've been 72 months and 12 days since you've been ruling today, and it's supposed that, with the data we're going to give you – which is all official data – this is turning – your mandate – into a real condemnation for the workers in this country. I'm going to give you the data in terms of CIS fringes, between the first line, the first tenth, of workers receiving lower wages, who would be around 70,000 workers and Welsh workers – who, so you know, only perceive, Mr. Feijóo, 410 euros gross monthly; gross, Mr. Feijóo – in 12 months – I don't know if you know that the last Dec is over 44,000 euros a month – and the second Dec, the second Strip, would be those workers who exceed 800 euros – 818 gross – who are 700 per month, and who are supposed to be in our country 83,000 workers and workers. These two fringes, Mr. Feijóo, make us have 22% of strictly poor workers and workers in our country, Mr. Feijóo; workers and workers who, despite being incorporated into the labour market, have to go to the networks of solidarity of NGOs and others in order to be able to meet their vital needs; workers and poor workers who are the face of the social model that the People's Party is building in a very prominent and very particular way in the whole of Galicia. But if we take the first three decisions, we have 153,000 workers and workers in Galicia, Mr. Feijóo, a third of the working population, hired – EPA data, Mr. Feijóo – who are not even millionaires, Mr. Feijóo; they are not even millionaires. And we have a new face, too, and that the crisis we're experiencing is the result of the policies of the People's Party; it's a crisis of inequality. When you arrived 72 months and 12 days ago, the difference between the highest and lowest wages was 1 to 8; today, Mr. Feijóo, thanks to your policies, the difference is 1 to 11. But the most serious thing, Mr. Feijóo, is that there is a loss of purchasing power in the German workers and workers who radically sharpen themselves in the poor workers. Thus, in the first Dec, the acquisition loss is at 25%, Mr. Feijóo; the acquisition loss, in the second Dec, is above 18%; and the acquisition loss of those most chargeable, Mr. Feijóo, is at only 4%. What do you mean, Mr. Feijóo, that – as Fausto says in one of his songs –...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u55	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u56	...the question for some goes well and for others goes wrong. While you impoverish the working classes there are others in this country who do obscene business, including the bank, Mr. Feijóo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u57	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u58	Tell us, Mr. Feijóo, what will you do to change this reality in Galicia?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u59	Thank you very much. The President of the Board has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u60	Thank you very much, Madam President. Your Honor, nothing impoverishs workers more than unemployment, and that's why I think it's good to point out that today in Galicia there are 25,000 unemployed people less than a year ago and that today in Galicia there are 17,000 more people on social security than a year ago. The Active Population Survey – which you always talk about when you're interested – has just come out, and the first quarter of 2015 EPA confirms – it's another way to confirm – that trend shift. And in fact, for the first time since the year 2008, employment has been created for the same period of the previous year. The Active Population Survey points out that in the last year unemployment has dropped in Galicia more than 7%, 21,200 unemployed less, that we have followed below the unemployment rate of the average of Spain – by the way, 12 points below the Andalucía unemployment rate – and that the number of homes with all members unemployed has dropped by 6.5%; that is, more than 6,600 homes less with all their members unemployed. And the drop in the youth unemployment rate goes down again -- we're down 4 points over last year, and we're down 6 points below the average in Spain, 18 points below Andalusia. Your Honor, if you ask me if we are satisfied with the work situation in Galicia, of course I say no, in no case. But I don't think I'm going to accept that Galician society is improving with respect to any indicator – INEM or EPA – it just seems to me to deny reality. Your Honor, the cost per hour of German workers in 2008, the fourth quarter, was 16.91 euros per hour per Greek worker; today it is 17.96 – señoría, yes, 17.96–. As you're talking about official data, I ask you to consult the labor cost survey, which is exactly what I just mentioned: it has risen 6% per hour since 2008. If you tell me if we're satisfied, I'll say no, but Galicia in 2008, in full economic favor, was the third autonomous community with the lowest labour cost – the third – and today is the sixth. That's why, Your Honor, I think it's worth giving all the data, which seems to be of interest to you; to me too, that's what we share. That's why I'm surprised you're talking about poverty; poverty, Your Honor, is the poverty of the state where we live. And Galicia's poverty with regard to the state in which it lives is that it is the autonomous community in which poverty risk population has been most reduced from 2009 to 2013. In 2009, the population at risk of poverty was 20.6%, and now it's 17.2...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u61	It's over, president.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u62	Your Honor, this is the data; and that's why I'm surprised, Your Honor, that, by keeping the same concern as you, you're trying to get the data just to fake a reality, which is not a reality from which the Government feels satisfied, but it's a reality where the Government insists, if it gets hope, because you know we're...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u63	Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u64	...on the right path to reduce unemployment, create jobs and lower poverty rates. Thank you very much, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u65	Mrs. Díaz Pérez's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u66	Mr. Feijóo, Goebbels came very well in this control session: however much he repeats a lie a thousand times does not become reality, Mr. Feibbelo. The data that has just been given from the public surveys of the value per hour worked are uncertain; we are also in line for the end – Galicia – in that value on the state average, Mr Feijóo; therefore, stop lying. Second question, the first quarter EPA's data are demolitional for this country, for its management, that would demand its dismissal immediately, Mr. Feijóo. That's the balance, the cursed inheritance in the 72 months and 12 days that will leave us to this country, and that there will be no way to lift it, Mr. Feijóo. Look, poverty at work is avoidable and poverty is also avoidable if there are governments that want to change that sign. The speech you gave here is terrible, Mr. Feijóo: it's better a job, though it's like a slave to eat and dress like in the 19th century, that nothing, Mr. Feijóo. Well, no, Mr. Feijóo, there's an alternative. Could you live with 410 euros a month, like 70,000 workers and Welsh workers, Mr. Feijóo? Tell us about this control session; tell us: Can you live, Mr. Feijóo, with those wages? Who are you doing the dirty game to, Mr. Feijóo? We are facing a crisis of inequality that is paying for the popular classes and the workers and workers in this country: while some have obscene benefits – Santander and his friends – others – workers and workers – pay for this duck, Mr. Feijóo. He resigns or changes his policies, Mr. Feijóo; he is wiping out this people, Mr. Feijóo. Stop ruling for those who command, Mr. Feijóo, and leave an inheritance worthy of this people, if you have the right. And tell us, please, if you're going to keep the Work and Wellness Advisor – who's in front of us – or you're going to change your policies, because it's also true that you, for the first time in front of a media...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u67	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u68	...recognizant that the employment situation in Galicia is serious, and of course it's serious, it's very serious. Mr. Feijóo, resign or rectify.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u69	The President of the Board has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u70	Thank you, Madam President. I appreciate that we're getting better and that you're getting moderate, as is clear in this control session. Look, in August 2013 we were called slave dealers; in February 2014 we were called fascists and Nazis; and now they were called neoliberals. I'm sorry that I was called neoliberal because it wasn't the formulation of the question, but it compares it with Goebbels; I don't know whether it compares to yourself or to a member of the House. What's right, Your Honor, is that I don't misjudge any data, and I'm going to make available to the House the Labour Cost Survey of 2008 and 2014, where the hourly and worker price, i.e. wages/cost per hour, rises by 6%. And I say again that in that year 2008 – a time of kindness, because, moreover, progressive governments – Galicia was the third community through the queue of labour costs, and now we are the sixth. Your Honor, that's the data, just like the data in the Active Population Survey. You say the data is bad, and yet we've dropped 21,000 unemployed people in Galicia, 21,000 people in the last year, and we've dropped the number of homes with all members unemployed a year ago, and we've lowered the youth unemployment rate. You tell me about the banks, too, and I don't know how many things. Look, Your Honor, the party's government of which I am a party has limited the wages and the redundancies of the bank's directors. I here as President of the Board asked the Governor of the Banco de España – appointed by the Socialist Party – to limit the wages of the cases involved. Not at all. And they left with the compensation that the Socialist Party considered appropriate. [[Murmurs.]] Look, Your Honor, at this moment the Government is doing what it's doing with the bank is forcing it to increase its provisions; that is, to lower its profits, because, obviously, deposit holders cannot go back to the possibility of not being able to withdraw the money that the preferenceists had. Your Honor, what we're doing with electricity is diminishing your profits in Spain. Yes, Your Honor, yes, what we're doing, for example, at Junta is making contracts with electricians that lower 13% the price that the bipartite paid. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] What we're doing is fine the electrics when they're not taking consumers seriously, and we've got 5 million euros fines. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And we're going to continue with the electricity, and with the dairy distributors, and, no doubt, with the dairy industries – with all of them, Your Honor –. Look, Your Honor, what we're doing with the builders is not accepting a third of the modified and reformed governments that accept progressive governments. What we're doing with the oil tankers is opening up the Greek market so there's more gas, because we're sick of being used by Galicia to bring the price of gas oil...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u71	Go finish, President, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u72	Your Honor, what we're doing, of course, with pharmaceuticals is raising the generic drugs by 9%, when we get to forty percent today. What we're doing is defending the people, Your Honor. You've had 1,000 days as a deputy, 1,000 days as a deputy... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u73	Finish, President, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u74	Your Honor, you've been an MP for 1,000 days. Tell the Greeks.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u75	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u76	...if with his salary they could live. Is that so? What are you now accusing me of? Your Honor, what is your economic model? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u77	Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u78	Your Honor, what is your economic model?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u79	Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u80	...the economic model of Mr. Maduro? Stay with him, Your Honor; we remain with the economic model of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u81	Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u82	Thank you very much, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u83	We continue with non-law proposals. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da María Montserrat Prado Cores, on the allocation to the district of Salnés by the Government of Greece of a permanent service throughout the year and the 24 hours of the day of, at least, a medicalized ambulance or advanced life support
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u84	Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia and the People's Parliamentary Group of Galicia have tabled amendments to this non-legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u85	You have the floor, to formulate your proposal not of law, Mrs. Monserrat Prado Cores. [[Murmurs.]] Quiet, please. You have the floor to Mrs. Prado Cores.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u86	Good day to all and all. I'm sorry I couldn't greet the 061 ambulance workers who wanted to attend the debate on this initiative, but yesterday the People's Party refused to make a change in the agenda to allow them to be present. The claim of the existence of an advanced life-support ambulance for the district of Salnés has been made, practically, since the inauguration of the Salnés Hospital itself. A claim that was about to become reality but that the People's Party, with its return to the Government of Unity, ignored again with the excuse that it was pending for the next contest. But the next contest came and the medical ambulance for Salnes didn't come. For this reason, a group of health emergency technicians in the Salnés-Umia area again won this claim when they convened 061, at the end of November, a new competition for the recruitment of the Earth's urgent health service in Galicia and found that in that call there was no provision for the health area of the Salnés of an advanced life-support ambulance. There are more than enough reasons for the Salnés district to claim this ambulance, an ambulance that is active 24 hours a day and 365 days a year. The health emergencies that occur in the district of Salné in the hospital area of the municipalities of Sanxenxo, Cambados, the Grove, May, Meis, the Arousa Island, Vilanova de Arousa, Vilagarcia de Arousa and Ribadumia only have four basic life support ambulances; that is, an ambulance with few equipment and only the provision of two health emergency technicians. The district of Salnés is below the ratio established by the World Health Organization for the provision of this type of ambulance, which states that there must be one per 25,000 inhabitants. We're looking at how this isn't: the ambulance that has its base in Vilagarcia meets the municipalities of Vilagarcia, Catóira and Vilanova de Arousa, which has a population of around 51,000 people; the ambulance that has its base in Cambados meets the municipalities of Cambados, the Island, May, Ribadumia and Meis, a population of around 11,000 people; that is, we're seeing an average of an ambulance for every 41,000 people in this area. To this it must be added that the nearest advanced life support ambulance has its base in Pontevedra and if you have to go to this ambulance, at best, it takes an average of 30 minutes to be extended to 50 in the case of the island of Arousa or Cathoira; that when this ambulance is not occupied and you have to call that it is, for example, in Vigo, with response times, those isochrones, multiple-folded. There is therefore an advanced life-support ambulance in Pontevedra that has to care for a population of more than 300,000 inhabitants: the whole area of Pontevedra, part of the Morrazo, part of the area of The Tenth Road and the entire district of Salnès. That's normal time because then, especially in summertime, that population is multifolded. What's the situation? That these basic life support ambulances to medicalize them – which is not medicalized but supplies to medical personnel and nursing personnel – are supposed to leave health centres, CAPs in many cases, without staff or medical personnel or ATS for a long period of time, which means leaving a very important part of the population unattended. I quote again the recommendations of the World Health Organization which states that there must be an advanced life-support ambulance for at least 120,000 inhabitants. We're seeing that there's an ambulance for more than 300,000 in the area I'm talking about. We add that basic life support ambulances have annual services that exceed 14,000 services. This would have to be added to the services of civil protection ambulances, both of the Vilagarcia Town Hall and of Cambados; that is, some means to all insufficient lights. What do we have to add to this? Salnés Hospital doesn't have an ICU. Despite being an electoral commitment by the People's Party – a more incomplete electoral commitment – the Salnés Hospital does not count on ICU and enlargement, which at the moment is simply a project, nor is it planned for that allocation with ICU. What's this supposed to mean? For it is necessary to transfer to other hospitals the serious emergencies that occur throughout the region. This hospital has a unique and exclusive ambulance for inter-hospital transfers, I'm telling you if the People's Party wants to add to the the theses of Mayor Vilanova, who wants to deny the information we're giving that there's a medical ambulance in Salnes. As soon as the People's Party's Health Voice Member intervenes, I would like you to clarify to the mayor of Vilanova – of his party – that there is no medical ambulance in Salnes, that there is only an ambulance at the Salnes Hospital to make the transfers of patients between hospitals, that if there is an emergency, even if it is 100 metres from the hospital on any of the roundabouts or the routes to the hospital, that ambulance cannot leave that hospital. I'm telling you to clear up the issues. In the attention of emergencies of gravity time is an essential factor, so of course, it is not understandable that a region as wide and with as large population as Salnes, with a high population density that is multiplying at times of the year – especially in the summer – with a port of general interest, an important economic activity with potential risk such as sea work and high road sincality does not have a hospital with ICU and does not have any advanced life support ambulance; that is, equipped with a specialized human team, with medical and nursing staff, and with the equipping of equipment needed in the ambulance to meet emergencies of gravity. The staff that provides services in the 061 ambulances are reporting that they are filling this deficiency with basic- vital support ambulances, which, as I said before, do not have just a supply, which only have two emergency technicians who have to go to the health centers to seek medical personnel, but that this medical and nursing staff is not specialized either, that these ambulances are not prepared to take a central route, in order to be able to intubate a patient or any other maneuver that involves a real emergency. They're doing what's called road transfers, consistent that if there's a very important emergency, they have to call the Pontevedra ambulance and, to save time, they go to their meeting and a roundabout, in a gas station or in the middle of the street, they make that transfer of patients, which means instability of these patients, and that means risk to the neighbors and neighbors of Salnes. We therefore look forward to the support of this House's groups to the initiative that we have tabled and which calls for the Government of Greece to provide the district of Salnes with a permanent service all year long and at least 24 hours of a medical ambulance. An advanced life support ambulance, I insist, permanently equipped with a human team consisting of a doctor and nursing staff specialized in health care in emergency situations and emergency technicians. An initiative which was unanimously adopted in the plenary session of the Vilagarcía Council, which was unanimously adopted by the Commonwealth of Municipalitys of Salnés, where all the municipalities of the district of Salnés are represented, and which I hope – I insist – of the support of all groups of this House to this initiative. Well, fair enough, because the population of Salnés...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u87	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u88	...it can't be sold, it can't be at permanent risk every time there's a real emergency, and that's what's happening. I could tell you about examples like there isn't much in Cathoira, that there's been an accident, a hit-and-run person, and that it turns out there's no ambulance in occupied Vilagarcia, that of occupied Caldas, they have to call the fog ambulance that's not medicalized, it takes more than 40 minutes and the person, unfortunately...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u89	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u90	...fare, or other cases of what you could do here today. I hope – I insist – the support of this House's groups, and that the People's Party will not do the best they can...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u91	Thank you very much, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u92	...voting one thing on one side and voting the opposite here, in this Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u93	Intervention of parliamentary groups. For the Socialist Group, you have the floor to Mrs Acuña do Campo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u94	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies. In fact, in Salnes, a medical ambulance is needed throughout the year and, in addition, since now. And for that reason, the Socialist Parliamentary Group will support this initiative; and for that reason, we also present a similar initiative. The best proof that Salnes needs a medical degree is those transvases of sick people, those transfers that are so often made on the way. Of course, ladies and gentlemen, if the patient was properly cared for from the point of origin, it would not be necessary to change it. Or in other words, people who are initially moved under poor conditions and exposed for lack of adequate resources are forced to make those changes at some point in the course, not to mention that situation so abnormal and even dangerous that it takes when making the change in full footwear. A medical ambulance, as has been said here, is a special health transport vehicle, because it is equipped with medical, medical, nursing personnel, a technical healthcare specialist in transport and, of course, the person driving. But in addition, the vehicle itself has to have a certain size to be able to work within if it is necessary and must be equipped with the material necessary to provide that advanced vital support – i.e.: breather, vacuum cleaner, monitors, pumps, defibrillator, etc., and all this with the necessary provision – while basic life support ambulances have neither the material, nor the personnel, nor the space, nor the conditions necessary for all this. But let's focus, ladies and gentlemen, on the transfers, on those transvases. They exist, it's not something unheard of, but they're meant to earn time only in exceptional situations for occasions of much urgency, of extreme gravity and, of course, in isolated and poorly endowed places, never in such a lively, dynamic region, as well communicated, as is Salnes. Think, ladies, that what is transvasive are people in extreme gravity who can go connected, for example, to a respirator and who have to make that change at the stroke of both... yes, yes, it's for them to realize... Don't bother, sir, it's for people to know what we're talking about; you, with your professional trajectory, know, but not everyone here is a doctor or a doctor. He said they have to be evacuated and changed from ambulances in the middle of the street or in the middle of the road to hit both on many occasions and all of them full of bombs, monitors and cables that, with these maneuvers, can be undisturbed, programmed or undisturbed, even. In any case, it is a risk that should be avoided in people who are already in such a compromised situation. But let's see why Salnes does these transvases or these transfers so often. Because although we're talking about a region that has more than 160,000 inhabitants throughout the year and that this population doubles or triples in the summer and even at parties, on certain occasions, it doesn't count on a medicalized ambulance; because despite the fact that it's a region with abundant traffic, with a lot of industrial and maritime activity, capable of generating a risk situation at any time, it doesn't count on a medicalized ambulance in Salnes. Besides, this neighborhood has a hospital but it's not equipped with ICU, so there are many serious patients who have to be transferred. And besides, this entire population of Salnés, thanks to the flaming health management of the tanndem Feijóo-Mosquera, has such a mess, such a medical mess, that to be cared for, are derived from hospitals up to four different health areas: Salnés, Pontevedra, Vigo, Santiago; something that in the case of an emergency is no less, and they also do not have a medical ambulance. The Socialists amend today's proposal that the Galego Nationalist Block should ask that this medicalized ambulance arrive at Salnés already before the end of May, because, ladies and gentlemen, the situation is unsustainable...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u95	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u96	...–reduced– and the daily risk inexhaustible. So we hope that our proposal will be accepted by the proposed group and that this initiative will go ahead, for the sake of Salnes. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u97	Thank you, Mrs. Acuña. People's Parliamentary Group. Mr. Núñez Centeno.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u98	Thank you, President. Good morning, gentlemen. Of course, here you have to hear things, eh! Mrs. Acuña removes the breather from her basic life support and then the breather appears [...]. I really don't understand. With ambulance transfers, I don't know what you understand. I understand a lot I've done a lot, eh! I've done a lot and it's not so tragic or what you're talking about. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] But well, if you want to tell that movie, go ahead. The first thing I would like to thank you, Mrs. Prado, was that you had provided me with this WHO report that speaks of 25,000 for a basic life support ambulance, because I've been looking for and consulted with technicians and no one was able to facilitate it. I'd appreciate it if you made it easier for me; I'd thank you from my heart because I couldn't find him. Advanced and basic vital support resources, consisting of the Galician health transport network, will be managed by the Galician Public Health Emergency Foundation-061. It is a service appreciated by the population, well responds to the need for coordination, assistance and displacement of human resources and transport, or at least I perceive it since my activity. The coverage of this area, in the area of Salnés, is framed in the area of Salnés-A Estrada. It has 6 basic life support ambulances 24 hours a day and 1 advanced life support ambulance in the summer months in Sanxenxo, which here seems to have forgotten. The month of July and the month of August, due to the increase in population, there's an ambulance plus advanced life support. The distances, if you consult Google Maps, which usually takes a few moments higher than the real ones – we all know, are 37 minutes from Grove, 31 from Vilagarcia and 29 from Sanxexo. And we're talking about times of tourism, not times of an ambulance. And besides, indeed, in this area there is a hospital, in other districts of Galicia there is no hospital. There's another thing you haven't mentioned, which is the possibility of asking for a helicopter. Helicopters are requested and a helicopter goes. In that accident that Mrs. Prado told me, I don't know what would happen so she wouldn't call her helicopter. Indeed, it was the professionals of the ambulances in the area who made their claims public in this matter. I myself meet with some of the representatives of this collective here in Parliament, with Joseph Manuel, Caesar and Xabier, and we talk about their and my experiences in emergency and transportation health. Of course, we agreed on some things and disagreed in others. We also talk about medical ambulances, sanitary ambulances, we even talk about the use of emergency medical technicians, who are known as paramedics, who all of you will have experience, or at least watching them on television in American films or series. In ambulances there are technicians who are not doctors or nurses. Well, that might at some point be a discussion of the future. The truth is that primary care professionals, doctors and nursing staff, we medicalize ambulances for supposedly urgent homes – which we do not know at times what it is – emergencies and transfers when necessary. I think it's part of our work and that we do because we're ready for it. As for the transfer shared between the ambulances, which we talked about before the transfers, I can only defend it. On a number of occasions I've moved, Mrs. Acuña, you go to a home you don't know what you have, you generate an emergency because sometimes the explanations are not entirely right, you go out, you call, and in the case of Bergantiños you get to Paiosaco, on a land you're perfectly fine, you change your ambulance and nothing happens. I really don't understand what you're talking about here sometimes. And it takes time, of course, for the sick's life. Since I do not agree with the paragraph of his proposal, where he says, "The health resources in the Salnés do not allow the attention of pathologies of extreme gravity or most of the time providing medical assistance in situ to patients of extreme severity, nor assist them with optional staff or nursing during transfers to a hospital facility." I think they are undermining the skills and preparation of primary care professionals that we perform these functions in coordination with staff of 061 and advanced life support ambulances. If we go to the data, I have here the data for the year 2009, 2013 and 2014, and they're very similar. For example, in 2009 resources were needed 7,620 cases, and in 2014, 7,287 cases. Advanced vital support, which is the use of advanced life support ambulances, 198 in 2009, 198 in 2013 and 212 in 2014. Similar response times. Medicalized transfers from health centres, 155, 139 and 138. Transferred from the hospital, they actually increased. After that data, which doesn't give me time to mention, I ask, what happens in 2015 that didn't happen in 2009, the year in which their parties ruled the Union with an budget of 2,000 million euros more than now? How many ambulances were put in the bipartite? None. The latest advanced life support ambulances in Galicia were 2 in 2004, in Vigo and Mos, and another in 2010 in Foz. Why didn't you put them in times of kindness? I don't know. We think this is a technical issue, we think that the above mentioned figures, isochronics and distances do not seem to justify, in principle, the demand for an advanced life support ambulance, but I insist that this is a technical issue. That's why we tabled an amendment, which you know, urging the Board to have the Public Health Emergency Foundation Patronate of Galicia...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u99	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u100	...analyze the situation in the Salnés area at its next meeting and take appropriate measures to ensure that the citizen's attention is paid to the coverage of urgent health transport and outpatient care, emergency and emergency. A similar amendment to this one, in the Caldas Town Hall, was approved by the PSdeG and approved by the Galician Nationalist Block. We hope they will accept our amendment. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u101	Thank you, Mr. Núñez Centeno. Joint Parliamentary Group. Mrs. Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u102	Thank you, President. Good morning to all of us and to all of us here today, who aren't many. I will support this non-law proposal that introduces the BNG, and I also subscribe to the allegations that it exposes. I'm going to start by saying what I've said more than once in this House, both in committee and in full, and good health starts with good primary care. To dismantle primary care as the People's Party is to turn health quality to disaster, to the Third World. There is no quality of care without primary quality care. Besides, when this unquality primary care, which does not have personnel, which is undertrained, has to also deal with those cases of serious accidents, all those cases that are not transfers between Salnes Hospital and Pontevedra Hospital, this becomes a totally third-party situation, since we all know that in a number of accidents it is paramount to the speed with which you reach a hospital and the speed with which you provide the first aid or enter a surgery. So you're playing with people's lives. To me the frivolity of coming here to say there's no problem where a patient changes ambulance if the place is discreet... well, we can put on curtains! All right? Look, in Vigo's district there was a big scandal, a big scandal, and it wasn't for the patients, they were corpses. The fight between funerals. And then the corpse was changed past the Rande Bridge. A real scandal! A real scandal! That's unworthy even for the body, let's not say with a living person. How do you transfer from one ambulance to another to a polytraumatized one? What's more the patient gives, the important thing is the cost! Because the health responsibility... don't put that face! Just don't stop thinking about people's dignity, they don't care! But I'm sure if it was your son, your father or mother, you'd be offended if you stopped in the middle of the road to change her ambulance without more excuse than not to spend on health care. Besides, the ambulances there are, the hospital ambulance that's to transfer patients between Salnés Hospital and Pontevedra Hospital, is an ambulance that only counts with a driver and a technician. So you don't even have the right staff to take care of emergencies, just move the patients who are admitted to the Salnés Hospital to the Hospital in Pontevedra. They also have ambulances, which they can't use, the doctor and nurse or nurse have to get them out of the CAP. Getting them out of the CAP means that the CAP is left without health care, and while the patient is taken, he moves to Pontevedra and if he gets back, it's 3 hours; 3 hours where there's no CAP running, where there's no staff for the CAP to work. But you don't care! It's really the frivolity they're dealing with health is a crime, it's a crime! And it doesn't understand because the question is not to head, the question is not to deny, as they always do, reality. There's a reality there. There's been a mobilization of ambulance workers for a long time, claiming what staff they need. And we're not talking nonsense, we're talking about life. With which, you're putting the people who live in Salneas as second-degree in relation to health care. Because Lugo's guys are a third, Salnes' second and Vigo's ones a first and a half, because we have a hospital, but private. That's the health you offer to the Greeks and to the Greeks. You devise one saint to wear another. That's what they're doing. The CAP is being taken out of staff to meet the urgency. When they're done with the emergency, they're back in the CAP. There are waiting lists in primary care. Advanced ambulances don't have the necessary personnel, they don't count on medical personnel or nursing staff, they only have the driver and the technician. They have to fix themselves to go down and climb the patients on the floors, they have to fix themselves to meet the emergencies of accidents, they have to fix themselves to care for primary care. You, of course, give them absolutely the same. They want – and it's the only thing they want – to privatize health, just as they want, through that Employment Act they approved yesterday with their only vote...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u103	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u104	... –Yes, I'm done – that from now on, workers and public workers get private pension insurance. You're the only one looking to privatize to secure the business of your friends and your friends, to guarantee the prizes to those who have kept them envelopes so far, to all those that we see today go through the judges.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u105	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u106	Those are the people who defend you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u107	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. Parliamentary Group of the Left Galician Alternative. Mrs. Solla. Sorry, I had Mrs. Solla here, but it's Mr. Fajardo, it doesn't matter.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u108	Good morning to all and to all, except those who are eating freely, as it used to be the self-government, which seems that these things do not interest you and abandon the hemicycle at all speed so as not to listen to reality. I'll explain, Mr. Centeno, what changed between 2009 and today. What changed between 2009 and today is that a Member who is here today, Marta Rodríguez Arias, who was doing a press conference every month at the comarcal hospital claiming these same things that we claim today. And today, with cowardice, not only does he not show up here, but he lets you defend what is absolutely indefensible. That member of the People's Party even came to compare the comarcal hospital with an outpatient clinic, too! And if we go on in this situation, not only is it going to be an outpatient clinic, it can even be a tanatorium. Because it's not to be accepted that the citizenship of Salnesh County Hospital is treated as second- or third-party citizenship, where simply by the fact of being born in Salnez you have more opportunities to die if you need a medicalized ambulance to take care of you, because you don't even meet the criteria of the World Health Organization. For everything: Pontevedra, The Road, The Salnés, a single ambulance, when the population is far above those requirements of the World Health Organization. But I can go much further, and not only do we talk about it, is that you get here and deceive and lie to citizenship. It is interesting that Salnés rotondas and gas stations have other uses, such as moving patients into gas stations and rotondas, when Sergas' acute infarction protocols expressly say that, in case of infarctions, it is not recommended, except in exceptional situations, to transfer between ambulances. Sergas' own protocol raises this situation. But there's no protocol at the comarcal hospital for these transfers, so you're doing what you're doing. And of course, you refer to Google Maps to talk about times. I, who are from Vilagarcia, don't need to talk about Google Maps, and if you are able to come in summer, from Vilagarcia to Sanxenxo, in 29 minutes I tell you to change yourself to Fernando Alonso, that MacLaren's will certainly have a better result than in the current situation. Because that from Google Maps will be anything, but come with me and try to get from Vilagarcia to Sanxenxo in the summer in 29 minutes. It's more, you're talking about that particular, serious situation, and why you didn't act as an emergency helicopter. I tell you why? Because the comarcal hospital has no heliport. Do I tell you where the helicopter's going to pick up those who have a problem in Vilagarcia? To the rubian football field or the commercial port. I mean, in Vilagarcia, the hospital's heliport is either a football field or a commercial dock. Do you think that's serious for a citizen like ours? Or do we not have the right to those of Vilagarcia, those of Arousa or those of Salnes to receive the same condition as the others? It seems not; it seems to you that it gives them absolutely the same. I'll put another question on the table. The expansion of the comarcal hospital is planned. Besides having no medical ambulance, we don't have ICU. So we have a double-serious problem. But besides that enlargement is a bluff, a real bluff. The tapes were set up, the fences set up, but they're not doing the work, do you know how many workers there are every day in those hospital works? An operator. That's right, going a long way to be seen, but there's no work to be done. I'll ask you another question on the table. Do you know what's going on in that play? When the plans are rethinked, it turns out that enlargement does not take them to the ground. Can you explain to me how that is? I'll give you another data. Public money is used to decentralise a private company for parking now public, within two years, private. Put on a fence and cover it. The work made it Juan Pueblo. But, automatically, in the plains of the Vilanova Town Hall, private parking is made on the ground which is hilly and which, therefore, violates urbanism, and nothing happens. And they charge hospital users two euros for going to a private parking lot where they give you a ticket where there's no CIF, nothing at all, where they won't even pay VAT or pay taxes, and you look somewhere else. That is the situation of the Salnés hospital, and I wonder how you have the face to come here to defend this situation and how the Commissioner of Vilagarcia is ashamed not to go up to this lecture, as she used to go up, claiming that dignity was given to the neighbours and neighbours of Arousa. Honestly, this is one of the most complicated situations in which I see myself in this House, because those we go to the hospital have to see how many tens, hundreds of users, demand that we do our best because their lives depend on it. Because it's not to be accepted that I have to do the job Sergas had to do, Civil Protection. That I have to go Civil Protection to the CAP to pick up specialists, and that it has to be others who do what Sergas doesn't do. And so, once again, it's a risk situation and a possibility of a certain death to live in Salnes because you condemn that population to second-rate care services. And if people don't die, you know why? For the effort and the work ability of the professionals at Salnés Hospital, who are doing so much more than they could be demanded. And you look the other way, and you're even condemning a situation of brutal work stress to those professionals who take care of what the government dislikes. Honestly, I'm going to be very disappointed, and especially worried about the cowardice of a Member who said barbaric things about that hospital because he had to complain, and now that they rule, look to the other side...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u109	Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Fajardo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u110	...and he doesn't do anything.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u111	Group author of the non-law proposal. Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u112	Once again, lamentable. Indeed, regrettable. Those who look down on the professionals, Mr People's Party's Member, are you, in making them develop their professional work in the conditions in which they have to do so. It became clear that the People's Party was once again doing one thing on one side and against the other. You could go there to explain to their mayors and their concierge that they are demanding in Salnès this medicalized ambulance because the People's Party in this House turns out to vote against. And, indeed, it is regrettable that the two Salnes Members, Mrs Rodríguez and Mrs Oubiña, do not have the decency to come here and say that they agree with what Mr Núñez Centeno has just said that it does not seem justifiable the need for a medicalized ambulance, but, in any case, it is a technical matter. Because you don't have the courage to say it through your mouth so that the neighbors and neighbors of Salnes can hear it. Because they're very brave from a hundred to a hundred and quite cowardly one at a time. Pretty cowardly, pretty cowardly. Because if they didn't have to go out there saying this. It doesn't seem justifiable what Mr. Núñez Centeno said. When you vote, you will vote on this, which doesn't seem justified in the need for a medical ambulance. In any case, it's a technical matter. That's why we're not going to accept the amendment of the People's Party, because it means a toast to the sun, it means a curtain of smoke, it doesn't mean any commitment. He says to analyze and study. Why don't you accept there's a deadline? Why don't you put in your amendment the medicalized ambulance that's in the permanent staff hospital and do a mixed job, that takes care of inter-hospital transfers and extra-hospital emergencies as well? Because you don't want any engagement. Because you're going to sell, once again, the neighbors and neighbors of Salnes. As soon as the municipal elections pass, he'll say no again, that there's not enough justification, and then what they're trying to do is make time for simple electoralist issues. That's the pure reality. The summary of emergency care in the district of Salnés is: basic life support ambulance, one per 41,000 inhabitants; advanced life support ambulance, zero; hospital ICU, zero; nearest ambulance, thirty minutes at least; population that serves this ambulance, more than 300,000 inhabitants; consequently, exponential risk to the neighbors and neighbours of Salnés. You're doing an act of fear and constantly jeopardizing the neighbors and neighbors of Salnes. You always think that it won't happen to you, that you won't have to be thrown on a road waiting for 40 minutes for an ambulance from Vigo or Pontevedra. They always believe they can do what Rajoy's father did when he went to Montecelo's hospital, mobilize everyone to attend to him. But neighbors and neighbors don't have that back door...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u113	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u114	...they don't have that phone to call. They don't have, they're sold with their health policy. And they're real cowards telling them there they're looking at it and voting against it here. That's the real reality, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u115	It's over, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u116	That's reality, that's reality.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u117	About the PSOE amendment?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u118	I accept the amendment of the Socialist Party because it actually demands deadlines, which is what we ask for in the BNG. We asked for an ambulance 24 hours, 365 days a year.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u119	Thank you. Next proposal is not law. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Alternative Galga de Left, at the initiative of D. Xosé Manuel Beiras Torrado and D. Antón Sánchez García, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in connection with the claims made against the company Galaico-Asturian electric bars, S.A., Begasa, by the alleged fraudulent manipulation of electric counters
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u120	This motion for a non-law amendment by the Socialist Parliamentary Group was tabled.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u121	For the defense of it, Mr. Beiras has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u122	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, I no longer believe what I hear. In the first stage of the vigil of the Galician Statute, of the existence of this House and of the Council of Galician Union, the common people said that of: the Joining of Albor, in the courthouse is better. Now they don't say it anymore because it doesn't need to, it's so obvious! We have recently brought an initiative on fraud committed by large oligopolies controlling production, distribution and marketing, violating the law with diverse sub-refugees, electrical energy, or fraud of the alleged tariff deficit. By the way, it was based on a study done by a degree at the University of Coruña. What happens is that Mr Núñez thought that Mr Beiras – or Beers to Dry – confused Parliament with the university, because, of course, bringing university level to this House is like throwing margaridas at the pigs. And not for all members, but for a particular section of them. The deputy who made the spokesman, among other things, said that the blame for the deficit that existed was, of course, from subsidies to renewable energy. What would be my surprise when later, specifically on March 18, 2015, I was surprised by an information all over the page, in a medium of written communication, where there is also a photograph of Feijóo and Gabarró at an 80-metre-high mill. I didn't know who Gabarró was, but then they explained to me that he was the president, I guess, of Natural Gas. And the headline on the page was, "We'll make more wind farms in Galicia because here they're profitable without subsidies." Let's see if they agree! I, of course, when I read this and saw the picture, I thought it was the statements of the president of Natural Gas, because it's the logic. It is logical that Gas Natural says: we will make more wind farms because they are profitable and we do not need subsidies. No, the statements were from the president of the Union, who spoke on behalf of Natural Gas instead of speaking on behalf of the citizens of Greece. That's your role! They don't even have to be careful to disguise themselves a little bit. So today we bring another one about the fraud in the counters all over the Lugo Navy, all over the space where you have the power distribution that entity called Gamasa –Gamesa or Gamasa, I don't know why it doesn't matter – in any case, Begasa. Sorry, Galaico-Asturian electric bars. Yes, it does the same, they're all the same. Galaic-Asturian electric bars. I'm going to tell you the joke of the hyena, of Jaimito, a long time ago, but I'm going to do it later so as not to miss my intervention time. Some people already know which is the hyena joke: if they eat shit and fuck once a year, what the fuck is he laughing at? When they explained the hyena, in nature history class, to Jaimito. In this case, what we bring is not a university study, we bring all the information provided by a society that is the Office for the Defence and Information of the Electric Consumer –RLF/630 are its references – and that does it in defense of the electrical consumer, whether they are households, families, as are businesses – especially small and medium-sized enterprises – which are even the most affected ones, because, indeed, the Vigilant Legislation, which is a whole nerd of difficult application, because it lends itself to many interpretations always, it turns out that it is even more difficult for small and medium-sized business entities than for consumers, families, households and households. We have a raising resource relationship, therefore, before the Galician Board of Directors since 2011. They are more than 90 resources –92 I think, exactly –. Of those ninety and so many resources submitted since 2011 – the data are March 25, 2015 – only 2, the rest are unresolved. Well, what's this about? These are allegations of repeated manipulations in type 4 counters and a whole series of facts that are related here, in a summary way, to the explanatory statement of our initiative. A series of files containing claims for repeated manipulation, in Type 4 counters with remote reprogramming; updating of counters out of the deadline set by law; failure to reprogramming the counter with respect to the settlement of points and measures in the existing legislation with regard to the liquidation of third parties' access to the network; alteration of readings observed by the distributor in the history through the use of double charging system counters; substitution of counters without prior communication to the client, which is very serious, because in Begasa's insistence that it does not have an obligation to communicate to the client any performance that is going to take place on the equipment, regardless of the ownership regime, even if it says that the counters are owned by the customer, the National Energy Commission, in Report of 26 July 2012, says that the distributor, before any action on the measurement team, regardless of its scope, will notify the consumer, as responsible for the measurement point, the exact date on which its performance will be carried out. No, neither. Excess of invoicing, in relation to the rental of the measuring equipment, and irregularities which are presented in actions requested by the distributor, etc. But there's another set of resources, which one shows is the file 2013/152, which collects the claim for alleged illegality of the installed counter equipment. Well, it turns out they install counters that are illegal because they do not meet the characteristics and conditions according to the requirements laid down in the law governing this matter. Also in this file is incorporated the response by the company involved, avoiding any mention of the defects mentioned. And it's completed with a report prepared by the Instituto de Metrología de Ourense, where the corresponding technicians record the lack of adequacy. And we could go on. Claims for the existence of a park of counters which does not meet the characteristics required by the applicable regulation; in particular in models [...]. They're indicated here, I'm not going to give them the mouse by reading what they can read. The installed counters present measurement errors, and there are doubts as to the time limits in which certain counter models can be installed, so that the Directorate-General for Industry and Mines has transferred the relevant consultation to the Ministry of Industry; it has not yet answered. It recognizes this test in the laboratory – there is a test in the Metrology lab – but it does not guarantee the proper operation, because it would have to be done on site and not done; it would have to be checked, contrasted and checked on site and not done. And no reference is made to the power recorder, which is an element that functions the classification of the energy recorded in the counter and which requires administrative authorization by the State Metrological Control Institute. So there's a whole series of irregularities. The claims before the delegation, the management or the corresponding council in Lugo were futile, but the resources at the highest level were also useless. But there is more, and it is that, as this does not interest the Board – it seems that we are here in feudal capitalism than we are talking about now, and therefore, it is the great monopolies with great noble magnates in the 12th or 13th century who command, and the servants, starting with the Menstrals, are the ones who execute – because Mr. José Manuel Rodríguez Torres, who is the director of this office, wrote to the President of the Council of Galicia on July 12, 2012 requesting, as soon as possible, a meeting to deal with a possible case of corruption and prevarication by the Council and the Directorate-General of Industry, and by the provincial delegations, with the distributors and traders of electricity in all these matters. Of course, no response has ever been received, because Mr. Núñez has enough to receive...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u123	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u124	...and kiss your feet – and from there to the top – to the president of Natural Gas...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u125	Thank you, Mr. Beers.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u126	...which, of course, is who commands, and the citizens are for that.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u127	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u128	It is absolutely inconceivable in any country where there is a minimum of democracy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u129	Thank you, Mr. Beers.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u130	And the master of the hyena joke well knows who he is.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u131	Thank you. For second shift. The joke in second shift, which didn't look bad. [[Mr. Beiras Torrado pronounces words that are not perceived.]] [[Applause]] No, it didn't look bad. Socialist Parliamentary Group. Mr. Losada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u132	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Beiras, there's another version of the joke, which is when a member of the People's Party in the Congress of Deputies, speaking of the unemployed, said, "Fuck up." It's a little bit of a version... it's probably an exabrupt, but it perfectly reflects the approach. [[Applause]] This initiative which the Socialist Group will support, whether or not it accepts the amendment we tabled, allows us, of course, to clearly question the concept that the People's Party has to govern for all. I was talking yesterday about the financial results of the Santander Bank. He said they grew by 32%. The truth is, it's better for BBVA, who introduced them today; the benefits have grown by 146 percent. It is true that, at the same time, while Mrs. Aguirre goes to the Intercontinental Hotel in Madrid with the President of Santander and with the president of BBVA at an informative breakfast in Rajoy, she says that it is not known that with menless because they disturb the idyllic vision of the city of Madrid towards tourism. I think it's the perfect metaphor for the conception on the Spanish right of what political action has to be. [[Applause]] And when metaphors and poetry change to numbers, we see exactly how that poetry materializes quantitatively. I will be assured, Mr. Biers, that you will speak at the end of this initiative, but this has a great deal to do with asymmetry in dealing with the various problems. While employment income between 2007 and 2014 decreased by 6.2 % in Spain, IRPF increased by 0.1%. While capital income increased by 1.9%, corporate tax dropped by 60%. I'm going to repeat the data because it seems to me that they are sufficiently illustrative of the non-maphorical counterpart of the policy on the right. Labour incomes fall by 6% and IRPF goes up little, but 0.1% – i.e., they go out clearly damaged – and capital incomes rise by 2%, but corporate tax drops by 60%. I think it's perfectly clear for those who rule each other. And now, in fact, we pass on to Begasa and the power users in the province of Lugo, both in the Navy and in certain areas of the center. We had a similar case with Natural-Fenosa Gas – in this case it affected not private users, but municipalities – in which the Union only acted when the opposition and the municipalities themselves defended themselves at the legal level. In other words, it has been unable, since its competences, to defend consumers, to exercise them with minimal coherence and with minimal executive capacity. Unfortunately, we are no doubt accustomed to this. And, of course, what interests do you defend? Well, the interests of power companies are defended. They defend themselves on this issue, in matters of control over invoicing companies. But they also defend themselves when the generation self-consumption distributed with a net balance is blocked. They also defend themselves when there is no question at all of the positive electric discrimination against the legitimate Basque Country, but which, of course, harms Galician industrial fabric – despite the fact that then the Industry Councillor comes here to talk to us about Industry 4.0–. Or they also defend themselves when Endesa decapitalizes itself to tears and having the most important electrical installation in the autonomous community. I did not listen to either Mr. President of the Board – who coincides with Mr. Borja Prado on a recurring basis in those Ritz breakfasts – nor to the advisor a single word about the fact that the assets were transferred to the hands of the Italians. Indeed, the abuses of Begasa company have been systematically reported by private consumers and small businesses, both in the industrial sector and in the service sector, in the Provincial Office of Lugo Industry, and once again, the autonomous administration has undoubtedly put itself on a profile. Unapproved registrar equipment; counters that are replaced without users having knowledge of that, and therefore you are unable to control whether that reading of the removed counter is the reading of the meter you put on, something as simple as that. I mean, I don't know if a very complex technical report is needed, but I think, intuitively, any of the people who are here can understand it without much effort. The own reprogramming of the counters... finally, increasing the profits accounts of the companies. Unquestionably, that has a form – as I always say – budget. Competition and consumption matches in this government, since Mr Feijóo's rule, have been reduced by 36%, and games linked to energy infrastructure have been reduced by 21%.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u133	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u134	It's over, Mr. President. So we continue to slow down the work of controlling the public and we continue to allow private interests to campaign at their wide corners. Our amendment is in line to complement the initiative of the Gaga de Left Alternative, but I insist that we support it, regardless of the decision of the proposed group. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u135	Thank you, Mr. Losada. Joint Parliamentary Group. Mrs. Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u136	I'm going to start by announcing the support for this non-legislative proposal presented by Alternative Galega. I support the non-law proposal as regards the irregular performance of the Industry Council with regard to the files. I support it with regard to requests for regulatory review, to prevent fraud in the measurement and billing of electricity consumption by electricity companies. And I support you even more to claim from the Board and the State that they take steps to reduce dependence and energy bill. Much has been said about the regulation of the electricity sector, the Government of the People's Party's relations with the electricity and the power of the electric oligopolie in the current political regime. We have already spoken on more than one occasion in this Parliament about the regulation of the electrical system that we are suffering, and it has been clear to the Council that it will persist in the current model that favours the electric oligopolie. The allegations, based on a work of researchers at the University of Coruña, did not serve to get out of the mouth of the PP spokesman a reasoned answer from his refusal. As always, the only reason the People's Party takes to oppose this non-law proposition will be the application of its mechanical majority that they have in this House. Neither the fraud shown in a serious research work nor the warning of the failure to comply with Directive 72/2009 of the European Community to establish a simplified procedure for the processing of authorisations for small-scale producers for electrical self-consumption and decentralised generation have served to change nothing. You can submit more to the powerful than to shame. The fraud in the calculation of the tariff deficit and the price of electricity that consumers pay, small and large, is not that they don't worry; on the contrary, they show that they are committed to defending it and keeping it. With the People's Party in government, regulation won't change until the electrics have another regulation that favors them even more. Nor are they more optimistic about the inspection work that administrations have commissioned. When it comes to favouring their own, Feijóo's board can seek out collaborators in the delegations of their councils. We remember the fraud in the training courses for unemployed people, 20 million euros missed in Operation Zeta. Or, returning to power, the old transformers who certified as new to pay millions of grants to Natural Gas. Only when they come across honest and courageous officials or workers is evidence of the policy of the government councils of Feijóo. And I say bravely because they would no longer be the first workers and workers fired for denouncing the corruption of the People's Party; and I remember the workers of the Chamber of Commerce in Pontevedra, a real scandal of leaving responsibilities and allowing corruption on the part of the People's Party. Today, if the trial is already open for that corruption that you have denied and that you have allowed the dismissed workers to pay. Now, again, we're in front of a councillor who's covering up fraud, and again in favor of an electrician and prejudice to consumer people. It's this interest in favor of Natural Gas and the big electricity which leads the PP to refuse to claim a Greek electric tariff. The positive is the attendance, with increasing presence, of organizations that provide support to consumers cheated and plant towards the power of the Government oligopolie. The positive thing is that more and more qualified voices denounce the scam that we are being subjected to by the electricity, and their relationship with the rotating doors. A big swindle at the state level that ensures that we pay for the EU's most expensive electricity. Things can start by changing when consumers, large and small, join together to fight electric fraud. At least in an election year like we are, maybe the People's Party was washing its face by announcing an investigation into the allegations mentioned in the non-law proposition. But what worries me most is that the corruption that is radiated from the top of the Industry Council, and from the trust offices, can eventually affect the honest people who work in the administration. Finally, I do not expect anything from the anti-politics of the People's Party, and I am convinced that once again they will apply their mechanical majority and will continue to try to hide the corruption they practice to keep in their positions, and increase the profits, to their electric friends. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u137	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. Mrs. Adam.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u138	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. From the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group we are going to support this initiative, and we want to base the three points on which the initiative is based and why we support it. First, reference is made to smart counters. It is good to know that in Commission 6 we have been debating on repeated occasions, and the People's Party has voted against, proposals that simply require the Inega itself to conduct an audit of the actual costs of acquiring and installing these counters, which we see, as it is based on the initiative and as we see are committing all kinds of abuses and hitting them with that facility. In addition, we also urged the Government to protect consumers from the abusive price of these rents, which are regulated, and that on many occasions the distribution companies are not meeting. Unfortunately, initiatives like this have been rejected in the Energy Commission, so we consider it very important to debate in this plenary which is taking place with the installation of Begasa's smart counters, and we can also extend the Fenosa Distribution Union, which is doing this kind of action that we can summarize in the following. The date and time of replacement of the measurement equipment is not communicated to the user or user, causing, of course, a supply cut that affects the proper functioning. It is neither respected nor properly offered an alternative to customers with proprietary measuring equipment, who have to choose between changing them from the counter or allowing the distributor to do it, it is given as something done. It is also happening that invoices are being sent with estimated consumption in concepts of fraud or manipulation of the measurement equipment without the customer being offered any opportunity of defense, thus acting as an expert public authority. Nor does it meet the requirements of the customers and their customers with these estimated consumptions, even threatening with supply cuts the distributors themselves to those customers. There are also absolutely unusual times of attention to the clients themselves who file these complaints. And something that seems totally out of the question and which the People's Party itself denied in Commission 6th. Amounts are being charged in rental terms above what is legislated. In view of this situation – and that is why we support the initiative – the correct thing would be that the Economic and Industry Council, once it has complaints at its table, has already acted on its own initiative. And second, and also something we want to touch on, given the importance of the Office of Information and Defence of the Electric Consumer, but we must remember that it is a private organization, but in this case we have the Galician Consumer Institute, which should be acting, that it should strengthen its staff, in view of the large amount of complaints, and even that it should strengthen those municipalities that have their own OMIC, because many people are suffering from this situation and do not know who to come. That's why we're going to support this initiative in its first two points, and, of course, in the third one, which speaks of what we call, since the Nationalist Block, the Galician electric tariff. We believe that this is the spirit, which analyses the situation of surplus energy production in Galicia, and on the other hand the weights it is suffering from both small and medium-sized enterprises and from families. As we can see, the energy issue is a political matter of first order, and here we have already given some outstanding arguments with regard to the interests of the People's Party governments, both in Madrid and Galicia, of relevance to the big electricians. But the interesting thing is that, in this particular aspect of distribution, the Economic and Industry Council does not act, and that all initiatives voted against them. We hope, therefore, that the People's Party will change its attitude, because what is required on this initiative is simply to defend consumers and consumers.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u139	Thank you, Mrs. Adam. People's Parliamentary Group. Mr. Goldar.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u140	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning to all. It corresponds to me in the name of the People's Parliamentary Group to set the position of this group in this non-legislative proposal of the AGE Parliamentary Group, whose object is already on the agenda that its lords know perfectly. This initiative was followed 18 days after its presentation to this House of a press conference of the proposalers, in which they did not spare heavy-caliber qualifications not so much on the subject of the proposal, but if they allowed themselves to slide, of course not inadvertently – and I quote literally –, hypotheses, not accusations, against the Director General of Industry, Energy and Mines by alleged, and of course false, relations forbidden to officials. But, however, it will not be this group which, in terms of hypothesis, of course, and not of free accusation, would lack more!, establish parallelisms of any kind or accused of maintaining prohibited relationships with high representatives of some political group with private companies, particularly those who, by religiously collecting for their legal advisory services, might have as one of their last ends the collapse of Galicia's public consumption services. And then, of course, we've learned how to protect the public against the private, the Greek against the Spanish, and at the same time we do – you know, I mean – of Spanish counseling speakers who, in addition to private individuals, as much as they use pseudo-public denominations of consumer organizations, these same advices are those that present, for example, 50 claims in the name of a single client. This hypothetical defense of private interests would, of course, be assumed and even commendable if what underlies it was true. But it's totally wrong, when not directly false, what you're demonstrating, as I'll tell you now. It is uncertain, and in this way it is believed, the alleged passivity by the Greek Government in relation to the claims made by this advisory on behalf of its clients. It's false because the Galician Union opened the information file, which consisted, first of all, of a metrological verification carried out by the Official Laboratory of Galician Metrology, and this is a public entity and Galician, and which resulted in both the meters owned by the already installed electric power, as well as the ones being installed, complying with the current legislation. It's also uncertain because a documentary verification of these counters was carried out and all of them, in the time of their manufacture, met all the requirements required by the regulations. That is, those manufactured before June 30, 2007 – a date of change of the legal standard – were subject to the mandatory authorisation of use, although not the conformity assessment introduced as a requirement for those manufactured from that date, and not before. Given this circumstance, the replacement of these devices was required to the company before the due date of July 30, 2018. Another group of complaints echoed in their initiative of impulse refers to a suspiciously inhibited legal-private relationship by the Galician Council in the face of these complaints, and it seems again that you do not know that a very important number of them are directed against free market trading companies, and when it comes to a legal-private relationship, and with the support of the National Energy Commission itself – today the National Commission on Markets and Competition – these claims cannot be resolved administratively by the autonomous communities, admitting only their resolution through judicial or arbitration, and it really makes it difficult to believe that you do not know this. And you should know, ladies and gentlemen, that, in accordance with Article 9.9 of the Regulation on Electrical System Measuring Points, counters installed at Type 4 borders may be integrated into the tele-management or tele-measure systems provided for for type 5 equipment without the need for approval or authorization of a proper remote-management system. Now to finish, and being a shame not to have enough time to try to thoroughly discard all the points of his initiative, also note that it is absolutely uncertain that on the part of the public services only a few claims have been resolved. In 2014, only 220 of 24 customers, of whom more than 200 are already solved, were presented for this advice. Finally, one more data for your information, especially that of the amending group, Mr. Losada. During the bipartite, the Galician Union opened 9 sanctioning files to the electrics and imposed fines worth 97,000 euros. This government, in its mandate, which they incredibly accused of dealing with the electrics, has raised more than 500 cases of sanctioning the electrics and imposed sanctions for more than 5 million euros. For you, of course, this will not be either to defend the interests of consumers, but for us, and for the Greeks that we represent, yes. So this group will reject its initiative. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u141	Thank you, Mr. Goldar. Group author of the non-law proposal. Mr. Beers.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u142	First of all, I want to say that we naturally accept the amendment of the Socialist Group's addition in its strict terms, and I also want to say that we thank it, because it substantially improves the exhibition part of our own initiative, especially as it makes proposals, urges the Joint Committee to do very concrete things, such as establishing a specific programme that develops compensatory measures and not what we said, just changing the rules, which can be extended more in time; to carry out the management so that companies do not make the supply cuts until it is resolved, but there is no such thing. The blind, deaf and such as proliferate up there don't know anything, because, of course, they transmit as ventriloquous monks those who send their masters to them. It is very important to give budgetary support to the platforms of affected and affected people, from the scope of consumer protection. We therefore fully accept it. I also want to say that I very much appreciate the speeches made by both the Joint Parliamentary Group and the BNG, because in their own oral intervention they provided enough elements of evaluation complementary to my own intervention, and, therefore, it led to the fact that among the four interventions of the opposition groups argumentation was more complete, more exhaustive and much more powerful than I could do, especially when I feel as drowsy as I feel today, after listening a bit to the President of the Board in his non-response. As for the PP, it was not expecting anything else, and less than the new Member, to do what he is told to win the garage, which is what he is for. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u143	Thank you, Mr. Beers. Well, you're a veteran, and the Members here are not just to win the garage, they're going to do other things. Among other important things, to represent society. That's right, stay... No, it's not dialogue, it's telling what's true. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] This isn't dialogue, it's saying what's true. [[Murmurs.]] Besides, Mr. Biras knows very well what I'm talking about, between me and him, we understand each other in this matter. No problem. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. People of Galicia, on the position of the Galician Parliament in relation to the content of the European Parliament Resolution of 12 March 2015, concerning the situation in Venezuela, and respect for human rights in that country
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u144	The next non-law proposal is from the Galician People's Group. A number of amendments have been made to this non-law proposal. One from the Parliamentary Group of the Left Galician Alternative and the other from the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u145	Mr Tellado has the floor for the defense of the non-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u146	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning to all and to all. I want to greet, firstly, and welcome the representatives of the Association We are all Venezuela who accompany us from the public forum. From the People's Group we want to express, to begin with, our greatest respect, our esteem, our solidarity with the Venezuelan people, the people who have been hosting us at very difficult times in our history and who have offered opportunities for study, work opportunities, business opportunities to the Greeks who have been forced to emigrate. [[Applause]] Thinking about the Greeks who live there and also thinking about the Venezuelans who live in Galicia, we can't and we can't even look the other way when these latitudes are going through quite serious things. For everyone it is known that Venezuela is going through a political and economic time of special gravity. Venezuela is a state with a democratic constitution, which is at risk of drifting towards political and institutional positions that would alienate that country from the whole of democratic nations. We believe that the Galician Parliament has an obligation to take a position on a subject that basically affects Venezuelans and also the 47,000 citizens of Greece and their families living in that country. Greek citizens and therefore Spaniards who in part share their Spanish citizenship with Venezuelan citizenship. The main value of democracy is respect for the rights of the individual, respect for human rights. The freedom and integrity of the person are essential values that sustain this system that we call democracy, and that I believe that all the groups represented here assume and defend. This initiative which we bring today is based on our obligation as Democrats to express our rejection of the attitudes and actions that limit these fundamental rights where they occur. Moreover, in this case, when there is a Galician community of nearly 50,000 people who can suffer in their own lives the effects of public policies which neither comply with nor be signed in Venezuela's own Constitution nor in the Charter of the United Nations of which Venezuela is a signatory. That is why this parliamentary group considers it essential to give Parliament a ruling on a matter of this importance. It is about listening to, responding to and positioning us on the warnings being made by various NGOs such as Amnesty International, or Human Rights Watch, or other organizations such as the General Secretariat of the United Nations or the General Secretariat of the Organization of American States. The detention of political leaders of the opposition without an order of detection or evidence confirming the commission of any crime, the retention of civilians in military prisons, the excessive use of force in the repression of peaceful demonstrations, the lack of guarantees of political participation by parties and representatives of political opposition, the limitations on the right to freedom of expression, all of this constitutes a far-reaching political reality from what was gathered out of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights adopted in the United Nations in 1948 in Paris and which had Venezuela as one of the 58 signatory states. In view of this highly worrying situation, the European Parliament adopted a resolution on Venezuela on 12 March, in which it proposed the following proposals: Proposal number 1. Reiterate concern about the worsening situation in Venezuela condemning the use of violence against protesters, calling for the release of all peaceful protesters, students and opposition leaders arbitrarily detained. 2. To ask the Venezuelan authorities to ensure that Antonio Ledezma, Leopoldo López, Daniel Ceballos and all other political prisoners receive the medical care they need and legal assistance necessary to exercise their legal defense. 3. To call on the Venezuelan Government to stop politically persecuting and repressing democratic opposition and respect for freedom of expression and manifestation, urging the media to stop censorship; remembering that opposing voices are indispensable for a democratic society here and also in Venezuela. 4. Condemning 16-year-old Kluvert Roa's bullet-impact death and six more students repealing the government order that allows security forces to use potentially deadly force to suppress peaceful demonstrations. 5. To ask the Venezuelan Government to comply with the provisions of its own constitution and to comply with its international obligations as regards judicial independence, rights and freedoms of expression, association, peaceful assembly and political pluralism, which constitute fundamental elements of a real democracy. 6. To ask the Venezuelan Government to ensure that the charges are investigated promptly and impartially, without a margin for impunity and fully respecting the principle of presumption of innocence, separation of powers and due process guarantees. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] 7. To express concern about the possibility of further protests leading to more violent acts, opening up the gap between the position of the Government and the opposition, urging all parties and the estates of Venezuelan society to remain calm. 8. Express the concern that political opposition is subject to arbitrary arrests and attacks over an electoral year, which could put the legitimacy of election results on trial. 9. To ask the Venezuelan authorities to establish an inclusive political process based on consensus and shared responsibility. 10. Encourage UNASUR and the Organization of American States to open ways of dialogue and understanding between the warring parties. 11. To urge the European Union and the Member States to make statements and take measures to show their solidarity with the Venezuelan people in this difficult period. And that is why we are bringing this initiative to this plenary, with which we want the Galician Parliament to take up this resolution as its own, which indicates the need for Venezuela not to deviate from the democratic and human rights path. A plan that is defending – and we want to applaud him – the former President of the Government Felipe González. And we therefore want to acknowledge that commitment to this democratic cause, of course we do. A commitment that cost you, by the way, the statement of a person does not appreciate by the Bolivarian Government of Venezuela. We believe that in view of the gravity of the facts we're talking about, it's not worth hiding behind conspiracy theories, it's not worth it. Ladies and gentlemen, let's tell the Venezuelan people that they have the same right and the same ability as us to live in democracy. Let us tell the Venezuelan people that we defend for them the same thing that we are demanding for us here in Spain, a limited government, an independent justice system, a system of parties that guarantees political plurality, freedom of the press and freedom of expression; the same freedom that the opposition here in Galicia is what we want for the opposition of Venezuela, no less. [[Applause]] And so, precisely for that reason, what we are bringing here is a declaration adopted by the European Parliament that we are submitting to the consideration of this House, a statement that reads as follows: "The Parliament of Galicia agrees to assume as its own the content of the European Parliament resolution of 12 March 2015 on the situation in Venezuela; to show its solidarity with the Venezuelan people in this difficult period and, in particular, with the Galician community living there; and to request the Government of Venezuela to comply with the provisions of its Constitution and with its international obligations as regards the rights and freedoms of expression, association, peaceful assembly and political pluralism, as fundamental principles of a democratic system." That is what we put to the vote in this Parliament on this initiative. Ladies and gentlemen, we simply call on this House to vote for democracy, to vote for democracy, to vote against this initiative is to vote against democracy and to abstain from democracy. We have a moral obligation to position ourselves, to defend essential principles on those who have no indifference. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u147	Intervention of amending parliamentary groups. First of all, the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. Mrs. Prado Colors, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u148	Good morning. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, you are a failed imperialist. Bring here initiatives...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u149	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u150	...initiatives simply to the service of the American master, to the service of the interests of the powerful. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Look, the scandal...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u151	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u152	...the rat fraud scandal, the expenses of Rita Barbera, the millionaire verbal counselings of Trillo and Pujalte... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u153	Quiet, please, Mrs. Piñeiro.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u154	...of Spanish public television, your news? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Yes, right, with Venezuela, with Venezuela, indeed. To hide their own misery, the People's Party creates an enemy, a country, to teach him lessons in democracy in the form of a smokescreen. But I'm sorry to tell you they don't do anything new, it's all invented. That American master you serve has been doing it year after year, year after year he's doing this enough to hide his own misery. Invent external enemies to teach them lessons in democracy. [[Murmurs.]] Look, BNG thinks it's not good for you to bring here initiatives like the People's Party brings here today, missing the slightest objectivity, trendy and supportive. It is surprising that the People's Party, which was unable to support an initiative put forward by the BNG in this Parliament calling for Israel's condemnation of the genocide it was committing with the Palestinian people, turns out that now it is necessary to intervene in Venezuela because the rights of Venezuelans are being violated. It's funny. [[Applause]] It is also interesting that he proposes to assume as his own a resolution of the European Parliament on the situation of Venezuela, a curious European Parliament, where the majority groups of that House have put forward initiatives in which Venezuela has been the country of Latin America with more attention in the European Parliament. Curious! Look, there won't be any trouble! Curious, Venezuela! And it is also curious that all these initiatives in the European Parliament coincide with the electoral year in Venezuela. Curiosities, curiosities, they're curiosities. [[Murmurs.]] See, in the European Parliament, where the majority groups, as they did in the Congress of Deputies – and just as the BNG opposed in the European Parliament and in the Congress of Deputies – are unfortunately aligned with the most extreme factions of the Venezuelan opposition, who participate in plans to overthrow Venezuela's legitimate government using violent means. They cannot come here to transfer biased information from majority parties in the European Parliament that, instead of promoting and building a respectful relationship with a sovereign state, what they promote is interference, interference in their internal affairs, ensuring exclusively by the businesses of the privileged elites of Europe and the privileged elites of the United States and Venezuela; that they remember that they still have most of Venezuela's private media and still have very high economic capacity in Venezuela. They're not in jail, nor is the communication system or the freedom of expression censored in Venezuela, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party. And it's also striking that a People's Party that passes a mordaza law, a mordaza law that establishes that almost any form of peaceful protest is declared illegal, that establishes sanctions of 30,000 euros for anyone who protests before Congress of Deputies or in public buildings or for the unauthorized use of images where members of the law enforcement forces come out, to conceal the abuses of the police, that People's Party who almost wants to eliminate universal justice for the Spanish population...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u155	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u156	...it turns out you're here wanting to teach democracy lessons to the people of Venezuela. I remind you that in Venezuela democracy has been referred to in the last 19 years by 14 electoral processes. Processes that have had international observers since 1998 and that in all cases have considered elections in Venezuela valid, clean and democratic. Elections that in 2013 won mostly the so-called chavismo and that later in October won back in the municipal elections. We regret that this democratic legitimacy is not accepted by certain sectors of Venezuela and that they make every attempt to overthrow a democratically established regime. The extraordinary summit of ALBA, the meeting of UNASUR member States, the Organization of American States, in March this year, by most of its members, 29 of 32...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u157	Finish, please, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u158	...–remato, president– understand that Venezuela is undergoing an attempt to overthrow the legitimate and constitutional government. And they bet that Venezuela's internal situation must be resolved by the mechanisms provided for in its constitution and must be the Venezuelan people...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u159	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u160	...what decides their future. Today, the president of the German Government, Núñez Feijóo, said that they do not want the Venezuelan economic model. But what BNG stands for here is that it is Venezuelans who decide on their economic model...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u161	Thank you very much, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u162	...those who decide their political model and those who decide sovereignly what they want to be, that there is no government based on that...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u163	Thank you very much, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u164	...imperialism will teach you what they want and what they must be. And, of course, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, they don't ask others what they're not willing to do either here or in the Spanish state.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u165	Thank you very much. Parliamentary Group of Alternative Left Gallega. Mr. Beiras Torrado has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u166	In the mid-60s, Celso Emilio Ferreiro had written a poem that proposed a lot of debate, a journey to the dwarf country. It seemed to be a ferocious and disqualifying critique of Welsh emigration in Venezuela. It wasn't, it was a complaint from the summit officer of the Galague Brotherhood of Caracas, accompanied by frankism and absolutely mafia, corrupt. And it continues to be. You should read it before you present initiatives like this. I'll read you some texts. I'll try to make it brief. One is: The Department of State of the United States decides to delete the word "murder" in its reports on human rights violations in Latin America and other regions. Instead of "murder" it must be said "illegal or arbitrary deprivation of life". For some time now, the CIA has avoided the word "murder" in its practical terrorism manuals. When the CIA kills or sends to kill an enemy, it doesn't kill him, it "neutralizes him." The State Department calls "peace forces" to the war forces, which in the United States usually land south of their borders and call "freedom fighters" to those who struggle for the restoration of their business – in this case in Nicaragua –. This was in 1974. It's not from any activist, terrorist, extremist, it's a text by Eduardo Galeano in The Wind Century, which is the third volume of Memory of Fire, which is the history, the chronicle of Latin America since 1492, seen naturally from the band of Latin Americans and not from the others. For in 2002, in this practice of the manual – which are, of course, cited the sources: Manual of Wisdom and Psychological War to overthrow the Sandinista government, by Philip Agee, 1985 – President Aznar boarded the Spanish State, through the Spanish Embassy in Caracas, in the conjunction of the 2002 coup d'état against the legitimate government of the Bolivarian Republic of Hugo Chávez, who invaded, took the presidential house and kidnapped the president. And of course the Venezuelan people, who you want to defend, defended themselves and ended it in 24 hours. They are voters, those who now invoke human rights, accomplices trying to overthrow a legitimate and democratic regime of the majority popular that began to turn human beings into citizens. They called them "wess" brothers of the Galaga Brotherhood to the workers... "I have three monkeys..." And the "nadies" defined by Eduardo Galeano. At the previous plenary session, I tried there was simply an institutional statement to congratulate the Venezuelan people on the tenth anniversary of that failure of the coup d'état. They refused. And now you bring a disguised institutional statement of non-law, because you don't urge the Galician Union. And they take advantage of an appendix to the House's Rules of Procedure – as always, because those who do the law cheat – to be able to make an institutional statement in the form of a bill. You know why? Because they know we wouldn't accept it and they wouldn't have the consensus, and they want to approve it with their votes and those of whom they have the serious mistake, perhaps, of supporting them. Next: "The emigrants now, in huge caravans, march to the goals of the impossible life, travel from the south to the north and from the rising sun to the West. They have stolen their place in the world, have been stripped of their jobs and their lands, many flee from wars but many more flee from the finished wages and the soils. The shipwrecks of pilgrimage globalization, invent paths... Some manage to collapse, others are corpses that the sea gives to forbidden shores or unnamed bodies lying underground in the other world where they wanted to arrive." This is also Eduardo Galeano, mouths of time, applicable to the dead of the countries of North Africa who want to come to Europe and that you with your racist and xenophobic policy prevent them from disembarking...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u167	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u168	...and they die drowned in the Mediterranean. And that's respect for human rights. And the European Union's last statement on this was shameful, as it was ashamed everywhere. Who are you to come here talking about human rights? And finally: "In 2003, when invading troops completed Iraq's conquest, the victors surrounded with tanks...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u169	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u170	...and soldiers oil wells, oil reserves and the Ministry of Petroleum. On the other hand, the soldiers whistled and looked elsewhere when all the museums were emptied and they stole the cooked mud books that told the first legends, the first stories, and the first written laws in the world. This was followed by burning the paper books, burnt the National Library of Baghdad and made ash more than half a million books, many of the first books printed in Arabic, Greek and Persian died...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u171	Thank you very much, Mr. Beers.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u172	Eduardo Galeano. In 2003 the infamous Mr Aznar and the Three of the Azores signed the spread of the universal lie of the weapons of mass destruction that Iraq had, and they razed Iraq to defend democracy...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u173	Finish, Mr. Beers, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u174	Today, after twelve years, they're still dying, and...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u175	Thank you very much, Mr. Beers.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u176	...in this Parliament you didn't even accept when the opposition asked for two minutes of silence for women and children killed by the bombings. You're infamous and this is a conspiracy and there's no more to do. Our amendment reproduces precisely...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u177	Thank you very much, Mr. Beers.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u178	...an alternative proposal made by the European Left Group in the European Parliament. We're...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u179	Thank you, Mr. Beers. Mr. Beers...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u180	Mr. Beiras, you have a call to order. Sir Beers! [[Mr. Beiras Torrado pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Mr. Beiras, you have a call to order. Please take a seat. [[Interruptions.]] [[Mr. Beiras Torrado pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Mr. Beiras, Mr. Beiras, you have a second call to order. And take a seat. Mr. Beers, take a seat. You have a second call to order. If I call you to order for the third time, leave the hemicycle, please! We continue with the development of the agenda... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Please, Mrs. Piñeiro, please. Mrs. Prado, do you have any?Oh, my God! Please do it! [[Interruptions.]] [[Murmurs.]] Mr. Fajardo, I'll call him in order. You have the word, Mrs. Churches. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] It's a shame the show's going on. I understand that everyone has the right to speak in this Parliament politely and politely and each one to stand up as it seems, and not to insult it. And so you have the word to Mrs. Churches, what you're going to do, right, Mrs. Churches? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u181	Yeah. Good morning, ladies. Thank you, President. Well, I'm going to stand up, and first of all, what I have to say is that Mr. Tellado is not able to say whether I am a democrat or not. We can measure who is more democratic or less, but that's not the case. You're not the one who gives the title of a Democrat. And it goes on also that we speak of a country whose president was democratically elected in 2013 with 50.66% of the vote, and that on the same day that Nicolás Maduro's triumph was announced, the leader of the opposition, Mr. Capriles...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u182	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u183	...runned in two previous calls, not knowing the result, summons its followers to a casket, while it holds the Government responsible for violent acts that could take place in the coming hours. And besides, he calls out in the street to "discharge anger." Those are the words of Capriles, which you defend, for the frustration of the election result. The outcome of these floods of such a democratic man was a wave of violence that ended with eleven murders, all linked to the revolution, vandal attacks, sieges, shootings against public health centers, the supply of public food distribution networks, state media and community media. The anger, animated and provoked by Capriles and his own, kept intensity four days and were recorded wounded in fourteen states of the country. My solidarity with the Venezuelan people in their struggle for the Bolivarian revolution and also my solidarity with the Welsh people in Venezuela, and also all over the world because we are scattered around the world, and who suffer wars, unelected governments, countries where women cannot vote, countries that keep illegal prisons. How dare Europe demand compliance with its international obligations to Venezuela when the human cost of its migration control policies is incalculable and unacceptable, as shown by the humanitarian catastrophes in the Strait of Gibraltar and the Mediterranean? The last one, of dantesque dimensions; but it's not the only one. How dare you speak of rights and freedom of expression when the sadly famous Mordaza Law is being questioned by European bodies? Did you see a picture of a woman from the female group imprisoned on the floor by a police officer's knee while she screamed "Protesting isn't a crime"? Who do you intend to teach, whose austerity policies have a brutal impact on human rights? Are you so offended by being declared a person who does not appreciate the alleged "x" of the GALs or the warlord, José María Aznar – who then will not pass into history as defenders of rights and freedoms, rather the opposite, both of which are contrary to the Venezuelan revolution and which make unacceptable public demonstrations for any government? And what about Amnesty reports you mentioned? I'm going to quote one: "Identity crisis, torture and racist abuse by state agents. He denounces Amnesty 320 cases with a racist component involving officers from the National Police, the Civil Guard and autonomic and local police." And do you remember a dead man here in the riots...? I want to remind you of the first death that there was anti-globalization in Europe, that was Carlo Giuliaanni, who was killed by an Italian police shot in an eye and then passed a police car over for protesting in the street against the G-8, the first anti-globalization demonstration in Europe.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u184	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u185	And they killed him. And finished, finished to send greetings and encouragement to the Venezuelan people on their way to socialism. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u186	Thank you very much. Socialist Group. Mrs. Soneira Tajes has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u187	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen invited to the rostrum. I want to start by congratulating the People's Party, they've already managed to vote for what they're looking for, because this initiative has only one purpose: this. I announce that we will support this initiative, because we have done so in the European Parliament and in the General Courts. And we're going to do it not because in Venezuela there's not a legitimate government that won elections legitimately, but because the Venezuelan government is pursuing the opposition, which are people who are also democratically elected and who are in prison without the guarantees that we demand from ourselves, not for another matter. And many of the things that were said here are absolutely free. For our guests, who may not know our model, in this Parliament – as in almost all democratic parliaments – there are –or I thought there were so far – two types of initiatives: those of impulse and those of control. In the impulse we intend from the opposition, basically, to propose to the group that supports the Government to do things, from our perspective. And the majority group has the ability to accept them or not. Well, we've proposed that our president of the board be brought up for a lot of reasons, and some of them I don't say them here or the verbatim because there are guests from outside and one has a certain institutional sense and responsibility as if not to teach our misery to those who come from outside. We have motions for impetus, we had a good example yesterday: 800 amendments that said they were useless. And now we've just discovered another new package, which is the "initiatives to stick" – that the boys would say – because we're raising the political debate to the category of infantilism but in the wrong sense of expression. [[Laughter]] And why? Because, Mr. Puy – and I was told to you because you were the one who presented this initiative and you were the one who justified it on his day – I am glad that today he had not left the main institution of the Greeks in Venezuela, because when you went out to announce that this initiative was going to be discussed here he put a magnifying glass and a diana on them, that here at times, for a moment of glory like what we just achieved – Mr. Tellado, don't give it to his head – we can play with fire and with interests and even the integrity of our citizens living in Venezuela. Let's see if you're clear, see if they're clear. Sure, of course, of course, here we play hooking, and those who have to free our scinching battles there are Spanish citizens mostly canaries and Greeks. [[Murmurs.]] Sure, but everybody's glad we got the photo they were looking for. We got it in such a way that, if you do, you've already been put forward in a media that, of course, I don't think you're a suspect of being neither Bolivarian, socialist, or... No, in the ABC. Or headline: "The Galician PP examines Bloc and AGE on the Venezuelan regime". You approved, they don't know, but you do. And that's what they were looking for. You here have done what they always do in the eyes of the Galician Nationalist Block when they bring up issues that are debated in the General Courts or in the European Parliament – where they are represented. I told them: What brings you here if you've already been debated there? And you're acting like nationalists. Yes, on this subject yes, man, please! [[Murmurs.]] Or not? [[Murmurs.]] Or not? [[Murmurs.]] In the use of resources and parliamentary initiatives, in particular, they made exactly the same. [[Murmurs.]] Because you wanted here – says the ABC – to examine certain opposition groups in this House. [[Murmurs.]] Look, really, it's sad, I mean it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u188	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u189	It's unfortunate, Mrs. Paula Prado, it's sad. We condemn the performances that are... No, he's not, because even here... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u190	Don't talk, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u191	...they said very serious things. Because, look, Felipe González – regardless of his opinion about him – many years ago – many more than now – also defended those persecuted in Pinochet's dictatorship and entered that country...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u192	Please finish, Mrs. Soneira.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u193	...and could take the case, the defense. We'll see what happens now. So here we are trying to compare one attitude and another in a revolutionary universe because they will understand that a socialist who will vote favourably for this initiative for the reasons I told them earlier because it's not particularly pleasant for him.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u194	Thank you very much, Mrs. Soneira. Group author of the non-law proposal. Mr. Tellado Filgueira has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u195	Thank you, Madam President. First of all, thank you for the support of the Socialist Group in any case. Mrs. Soneira is right, we were looking for a picture, which was the unanimity of this plenary session of the Galician Parliament defending democracy in Venezuela. I'm sorry that you supported her from the lullaby and that other groups were dismarked. [[Applause]] We want to show, in any case, our total rejection of the political positions shown by the Mixed Group, the Nationalist Block Galego and the Alternative Left Galaga. Accessing international conspiracy theories not to join the defense of democracy, of freedoms, at least it's frankly regrettable. His amendments are an insult to the intelligence of Democrats, that's reality. [[Murmurs.]] We deeply regret that the Gaga de Left Alternative, that the Galego Nationalist Block, which the Mixed Group, will turn their backs on the 47,000 Greeks who live in Venezuela. For you your life, your rights, your freedoms – if you have just demonstrated it – are absolutely worthless. You put your ideological sympathies above the defense of human rights, and that's what we saw here today. [[Applause]] Look, if you are unable to condemn the detention of Mayor of Caracas and other leaders of Venezuelan opposition, if you are unable to condemn the detention of civilians in military prisons, if you are unable to defend the presumption of innocence and the separation of powers, if you are unable to censor government restrictions on the right to freedom of expression in Venezuela, if you do not dare to denounce the excessive use of repressive force in Venezuelan protests, in which 1,700 protesters are awaiting trial, 69 are still detained and 40 have lost their lives at the hands of the national guard and of pro-government armed groups, and if you do not have the courage to condemn in this Parliament the death by bullet impact of the student Kluvert Roa and six more students by the Venezuelan security forces, you just don't deserve to occupy that scene where they are sitting, simply don't deserve to represent them. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] We regret his poor democratic will, we are here simply doing something, defending the vigil of the Venezuelan Constitution, and defending the rights of Venezuelans and Greeks living in Venezuela. I'm sorry I can't answer Mr. Beiras because he's gone, which is what he always does, he talks and never hears what we have to replicate him. The truth is, he doesn't listen to what we have to tell him, but we can only tell him one thing: that if you want to do democracy a favor to him, if you want to do a favor to Galicia, the best thing you can do is actually, that, to leave, leave and not come back. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Nothing more and thank you very much. [[Applause]] G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Socialists of Galicia on the performance to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in connection with the offer of the Provincial Deputation of Place of Financing for the implementation of the hemodynamic service 24 hours at the University Hospital Lucus Augusti, de Lugo
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u196	This motion for a non-law has been tabled with an amendment by the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u197	You have the floor, to formulate the non-law proposal, Ms. Concepción Burgo, of the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u198	Very good days, neighbors of Lugo, members of the Platform for the Defence of the Implementation of Sanitary Services in the ULA. I want to thank them for being here again, and I want to thank them, as all the lumens are grateful for their perseverance in a fair claim to have in Lugo the same health services as all the rest of the Greeks. I believe that the neighbors of Lugo, the platform that integrates – let's talk about it now – to many very different people and collectives, are giving a true civic lesson in defending the rights of citizenship. Who is not teaching a civic lesson and not even worrying about what their competences are, is the health advisor, who, as you can see here, is not. He's not because he's winning his pulse—then once again—the proclamation of a non-gracious person, as we did in Lugo. Here's the demonstration that you won the pulse that reprobation of all the lumens, re-flighting Lugo's citizenship. Well, again we bring to this House the Socialist Group a debate on the need for health services at the 24-hour hemodynamics hospital, radiotherapy and nuclear medicine, promised on February 26, 2011 by the President of the Board, Mr Feijóo, and that four years later we do not have. Specifically, this time it is about the 24-hour hemodynamics service, and, more specifically, the Socialists' claim that the Galician Union accepts the – generous, besides – offer of the Deputy of Place to cover all the expenses to implement the absolutely necessary service of hemodynamics 24 hours in the UALA. Before the inaction and the refusal of the Health Council, before the inaction and the refusal of President Feijóo, the MP listens to the neighbours and offers this budget necessary to have this service. Because the MP listened to the neighbours – something that does not make the Union – he heard the demands supported by more than 250 associations of all kinds – cultural, neighbors, economic – by professional schools, by the unions, by all political parties – except the PP – by all institutions in the province – Deputation and councils. And he heard the claims of 41,000 citizens who signed an ILP that here, in this Parliament, the knee of the absolute majority of the People's Party has been emptied of content. He also listened to the MP's opinion of Cardiologists, who say that the implantation of hemodynamics is absolutely necessary 24 hours. But Junta didn't listen, the Counselor did not listen, because she doesn't even intend to hear what we have to say right now either. What Mrs. Health Adviser said in Lugo in February is that she would not put this service, that in any way. And why did the counselor say this? Because, according to the advisor, there aren't enough deaths due to infarction in Lugo. That's why, that's what he said. Mortality figures aren't high in Lugo and therefore there's no need to put it. The counselor stated that having hemodynamics in office hours did not affect the survival of lumens; that is, it has no effect on mortality from infarction that the service is open 35 hours a week while it is closed 133 hours a week. This, according to the advisor, has no incidence. And he said it in Lugo with the trouble of all the neighbors and all the institutions, except for one member of the People's Party who applauded frantically and very enthusiasticly this demonstration, because he seems not interested in the health of the lumens. But the data is not true. Unfortunately, Lugo does have a number of infarction deaths, of infarction mortality, very high, unfortunately. According to INE figures – from INE, not from the Socialist Group – there is a death rate per infarction in Lugo of 76 deaths per 100,000 inhabitants. It doubles the rate of infarction in the state as a whole, and doubles the rate that other provinces of Galicia have, like A Coruña; of course, it's the highest in all Galicia. Something will have to see that we don't have hemodynamics for 24 hours. It's 2013 figures; therefore, when the hemodynamics service was already in office. We don't know how many figures Mrs. Counselor handles, because she doesn't give them. The People's Valedor reported it in his last report. I wonder, as we wondered, what are you trying to hide? Why don't you give those figures? But if you give figures to the cardiologists. Those if they give figures, they're the important ones. And the head of the HULA Cardiology Service publicly stated that in the hemodynamics room, open in office hours, they could only be treated, they could be treated, 40% of the infarctions, 40%. I mean, 60 percent of infarctioners have to go to the Coruña. It also says the Head of Cardiology of the HULA that only one out of every three sick people – one out of every three – is able to make a primary anxioplasty over 120 minutes, which, as we all know already – since we are talking about it on numerous occasions – is absolutely vital for the survival of the sick to come before 120 minutes. But there's more figures, there's more data that the cardiologists themselves give, the comparison between the areas of Santiago and Lugo, health areas of Santiago and Lugo, which have some figures that I'm going to report, really incredible, and incredible is that we're still without hemodynamics 24 hours. The number of deceased at 30 days of infarction in Lugo is 45% higher than in Santiago, almost double the death thirty days after having the infarction. But it's more, if we measure the death to one year since the infarction -- 365 days, one year -- at Compostela, 2.4% of the patients die while at Lugo -- what would we say? twice? No, ladies and gentlemen, no, no, 14.6%, five more times the infarctions a year from time to time in Lugo than in Santiago. And the advisor goes on to say he doesn't have enough dead. I don't know, PP ladies, if these look like you – which are the ones who have to vote now – enough dead. To us, of course, yes. It is data that evaluates the implantation of the hemodynamic 24 hours, which say that time is vital, that survival depends on having a hemodynamic service, which seems not to understand a PP MP by Lugo who said on a radio – and I quote textually –: "Who says having hemodynamic 24 hours is better than having it 8? Who says so?" For it will be necessary to tell this Member that, in addition to telling him the common sense, because it turns out that he does not infarction in office hours – that is, it is already common sense – that all cardiologists say – the head of the HULA Cardiology ensures that the cost of implanting this is small and that mortality would have significantly decreased – the president of the Spanish Society of Cardiology, the representatives of the State Confederation of Medical Unions, the College of Nursing, and so we could follow all specialists. All but PP, who don't see these numbers. And the cost, as I said, is very small, 100,000 euros a year.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u199	It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u200	Therefore – finished – the MP is willing to give this money. So, there's no more excuses, PP lords. Funding is secure, you can launch this service. If they don't, no one will understand; if they don't vote for this, if they don't put on hemodynamics 24 hours, they'll have to tell Lugo's citizenship what dark interests are defending at the expense of the life of the lumens. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u201	Intervention of parliamentary groups. For the Mixed Group, Mrs. Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u202	Thank you very much, President. Let's talk again today about the 24-hour hemodynamics service in the province of Lugo, a great province; besides, great, we're not talking about a small province, but a large province with a lot of territory and that has no attention to hemodynamics 24 hours. I understand that Lugo's citizenship has the right to have a 24-hour hemodynamic service, like all Welsh and Welsh, in operation in his province; at least one. Mr.Núñez Feijóo said in 2011 that he assumed – and I will quote literally – "the commitment that patients with heart or cancer who had previously had to travel to Santiago or Coruña may be cared for in his public hospital in Lugo throughout this year" – year 2011–. I would deserve Mr Feijó's resignation to lie and make false promises about something as delicate as health care services to diseases as serious as heart disease or cancer. Despite Feijó's pledges in 2011, it was not until the beginning of 2014 when the Hemodynamics Service was launched, but only in office hours, from 8 to 3 p.m. on Monday to Friday. The situation is very serious, since 60 per cent of the province of Lugo's infarctions are still needed at the Coruña hospital. It takes more than 120 minutes to be marked as a maximum limit to be able to recover from an infarction without permanent sequelae or loss of life. For example, a person who lives in the Courel and infests you out of office hours will take more than 2 hours to reach the CHUAC. The entire Spanish Society of Cardiology defends the need to expand the hemodynamic services of the HULA 24 hours. Lugo is the worst province in terms of mortality in cases of infarction, as the Socialist Party spokesperson said, as well as doubles the state average mortality rate for infarction and is much higher than the average Welsh death rate for infarction. In addition, you, with all the pride they represent, have allowed to divert a popular legislative initiative from the people of Lugo, which called for the operation of the hemodynamics service in six months, and you, alone, have deverted it and rejected it, moving it to at least eighteen months. It should be shameful for a president of the Union to have a Member to offer to finance the cost of expanding the hemodynamics service to ensure the operation of 24 hours. I should be ashamed of the whole German Government. This solution, which the Deputies finance is not the best service to take on board, because Members have to take on vital services, especially in the small municipalities where, after the corset, they are not able to cope with local reform, and they have a lot of difficulties. The Lugo Deputy needs these resources to meet needs such as basic home support services, which in 2012 no longer be financed by the Union in the municipalities of less than 20,000 inhabitants. Even the Deputy Welfare Area recognizes the insufficiency of budgets to meet these needs. That's why I should be ashamed of the Greek Government that the Deputy has to assume another need, in this health case, that it is up to the Union and that its president has promised more than four years ago. But this collaboration must be limited in time and it should not be assumed that the Union circumvents its commitments, responsibilities and competences, because the Greek Government does not assume the most basic commitments...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u203	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u204	...with citizenship about health. Instead, without entrusting himself to God or to the devil, he entrusts them with the management of numerous health services to American investment funds and to the great multinationals. It takes time and, therefore, I go directly to the amendment, which I hope will be accepted, which simply limits in time this approach to the Deputy in six months so that the Board, at once, takes up its powers and puts the Hemodynamic Service into operation 24 hours in the HULA. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u205	Thank you very much. For the German Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mr. Pombo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u206	Thank you, Madam President. Neighbors and neighbors of Lugo present in the gallery, and those who follow the debate by other means, ladies and gentlemen, very good days. We are dealing again in this Parliament, in fact, with a serious marginalization in the health care of the neighbours and the neighbours of Lugo, also those of Ourense. Severe marginalization because the hemodynamics service of the Lugese university hospital only works on office hours and should work 24 hours to save the lives of those who suffer from late infarction, evenings, Sundays, Saturdays and holidays. You will remember, ladies and gentlemen, that on 25 March 2014 – there is more than one year – a bill has been dealt with in this Parliament via ILP, the largest supported in the history of this Parliament. They will remember that they claimed that the hemodynamics service would work 24 hours or Lugo would continue to pay poor health care for lives. The comrade who preceded me in the use of the word said: in Lugo, if they died by infarction, the average of those who die in Galicia would touch him every year 165 deaths. But, as we have such extraordinary services to deal with the infarctions, they die over 270 every year, over 100 people in addition to Galicia's average. Many, many lives are those who die. We all know, ladies and gentlemen, that in cases of acute myocardial infarction the only way to guarantee the salvation of many lives, the only way to guarantee a better quality of life for those who save it, is that those affected by the infarction can reach the hospital before 120 minutes. For this, the Lugese and the Lugese need us to be cared for in the province, not in Coruña, not in Santiago. Two out of three infarctions are currently not treated in the province of Lugo. The BNG's position on the particular is known and clear: the same rights for Lugo, also for Ourense, in hemodynamics; that is, 24 hours of attention. And attention on the public network. Unfortunately, on December 16, 2014, the People's Party changed the law promoted by luxury citizenship and denied us the functioning of hemodynamics within 24 hours. For that reason, in Lugo they will continue to die many more lukewarmly for infarction than in the rest of the Galician provinces. Luxurious citizenship, of course, won't forget, neither will BNG. After five years of the inauguration of that HULA hospital, which is extremely modern, and with more than qualified staff, with the most advanced infrastructures, we have not yet had this 24-hour service, which is essential to attend to the heart, so that we don't steal the hearts of the Lugues more than we steal in other provinces. It only works in office hours, and it will still die a lot of luxury because Mr. Feijóo made the decision not to keep his promises of 2011. Because the People's Group, the 18 Members sitting here – most of them are absent – did not make a decision to support this initiative, but they decided to leave Lugo Province, also Ourense Province. At this point, the BNG, considers that, after four years of unmet promises by Mr. Feijóo's liar, absent, is not from receipt...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u207	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u208	...–I will end up – delay these services more. We announce the request for the advisor's resignation once again. Mr. Castineira, Mr. Santalices, these T-shirts are more and more circulated by Lugo. Mr. Castineira, you know that you are accused of treason on this subject. Of course, the Block won't betray Lugo, the Block will do what it always did: have one word and one word. We have signed ILP and will support this initiative. Because it's not about money. With that famous multimillionaire Iglesias video, with those four hundred and a thousand euros, the service would be paid for 24 hours for four years, you made yourself no money problem! So, for justice to be done with Lugo and his health care, we announce our vote in favour. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u209	Thank you, Mr. Pombo. For the Parliamentary Group of the Left-Galga Alternative, Mr. Ramón Vázquez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u210	Well, good morning to all and all. The truth is, the history of the sanitary infrastructures in the province of Lugo would give a lot to talk about, much more than the five minutes I have. The HULA was a hospital that started its walk in 1998. By those dates it was said to be inaugurated in 2002, although it would finally be almost ten years later, in 2011. During those twelve years, the former General Hospital was active, without investments, decadent to what would be the imminent inauguration of the HULA. During those more than twelve years, thousands of patients received poor health care in a hospital that did not meet the conditions for quality health. The HULA finally opened. President Feijóo promised the services of hemodynamics, radiotherapy and nuclear medicine, but that wasn't his only promise. He also promised investments to the residential district, to the old General Hospital. A new CAP, a reference laboratory, was promised the development of the health centre in the district of Milagrosa, totally saturated. But neither of those promises was fulfilled. Because it was not fulfilled neither, nor was it assumed, the ILP brought to this plenary requesting services committed to the ULA and which was totally distorted by the People's Party. And now we've come to this situation where one's struggles and other's struggles have entangled, entangled, as always, all citizenship, all the neighborhood. Between 2011 and 2013, 3,600 lucid patients with heart disease were transferred to other provinces, and 2,000, more than 2,000, to receive cancer treatment. These are the data given by the Government to the Gaga de Left Alternative Group in a commission question, so they are official data, they will not be rebutted. These are the patients, the ones who suffer from the failure of the Government. We have made a visit to the HULA on recent dates, and it is, of course, bloody to see installations that are perfectly finished, spaces perfectly reserved for the machinery involved in the demanded services and which, however, are absolutely empty. The situation is so serious, so we understand this initiative, we understand in this sense the offer of Parliament. We understand this initiative with the intention of taking out the colors of the People's Party, of shame, because it's shameful what you've done. But we recommend caution with this type of proposal. We all know that the provision of these services is an obligation of the Government of Greece, it is its competence. But not only that, it's your commitment, but not only that, but it's your ethical and moral duty, of course irrevocable. In the province of Lugo there are many children, many children, who, despite their lack of resources, cannot afford the school dining room – the competence of the Government of Galicia –. And in his house the refrigerators are empty. It compromises your physical health, but it also compromises your emotional health. In the province of Lugo there are many families who suffer from energy poverty, they go cold in winter. And this compromises their physical health, and also increases their mortality. In the province of Lugo there are many families who are defeated, in the province of Lugo there are many problems attributable to the action of the Government of Galicia. It doesn't seem that the solution to these and many other problems should be assumed by the Deputy of Lugo. I insist, we understand this initiative, we understand it must serve to shame the government, and that's why we...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u211	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u212	...we're going to support her. But we know the People's Party won't support her. Because we also know that for the People's Party it would be much easier to assume its obligation and provide the service of hemodynamics for 24 hours than to allow the Deputy to take over the expense. But he won't give his arm to twist, he won't, because he's stuck in a political battle of which citizens are hostages. Junta's going to go slowly, to cash, in a deficit, and privatizing those compromised services, going to do it by booking a juicy business for private companies. The 2016 autonomous elections will arrive and will be presented as life-savings of civility, which will continue to be hostage to this electoral strategy. Mr. Castineira, here today – I wonder if he is going to do the intervention, I suspect not, because Mr. Santalices has already taken up his position as a Member –...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u213	Please finish, Mr. Vázquez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u214	I believe that the citizenry of light deserves an explanation from his face of this cowardly and regrettable attitude, a follower of a government that is seriously harming the health of the lucids. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u215	Thank you very much. Mr. Santalices, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u216	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning to all. I greet all the guests we have in our gallery today. And I'll start by saying that I don't think it's appropriate for us to support this proposal. I don't think it's appropriate because this proposal is trying to make a perverse political opportunism at the expense of patients. And that doesn't seem right to us. [[Murmurs.]] I claimed Ourense's hemodynamics and I didn't do it at the cost of photos with patients. I did it at the expense of my word and my defense in this Parliament. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I didn't even wear any T-shirts, though I respect them. [[Applause]] No, I didn't, I didn't. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Nor, as it was said here, does it seem to us that... I didn't interrupt anyone. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I don't think it's appropriate for the deputy to come, because the subject is not in funding. And, by the way, if we talk about the Members of Parliament, which speaks well: EUR 100,000 is not enough. Please give the data well: EUR 900,000 is what it takes to mount the hemodynamic units, because only one guard costs 200,000. But that's not the problem. [[Murmurs.]] The protection of health care is Sergas, and Sergas is what needs to respond to health care. The deputy who dedicates himself to what he has to do, to home help services and so on. That's what the Lugo Deputy has to do, which, by the way, is not doing. Let him dedicate himself to it. Ladies and gentlemen, the hemodynamics of Lugo exist because Mr Feijóo's government has implemented it. You decide to install it. Mr. Touriño didn't even see her. And when this Member made his proposals on the hemodynamics of Lugo and Ourense, which I will read next, because what happened happened. In particular, in a motion debated here in 2006 this Member proposed: Point one, that in the hospital complexes of Ourense and Lugo are installed the technology necessary for the attention of radiotherapy oncology, thus avoiding the displacements. Second, to contemplate the construction of the new Lugo Hospital the implantation in itself of a hemodynamic unit. Third, proceed to the installation of a hemodynamic unit at the Ourense Hospital Complex. Three points. Do you know what you voted for? On the contrary. That's what you have to say, you voted against it. [[Murmurs.]] And I'm also surprised that, after pressure, the Ourense hemodynamic unit had been mounted and the Ourense hemodynamic unit had been mounted with programmed activity. And the Members of Ourense voted in favour of it. And it was implemented by a socialist advisor, a hemodynamic unit running from 8 to 3, programmed. So, ladies and gentlemen, what are we talking about here? I mean, because this has to be transferred in a positive way... I'm talking about what's right, what's interesting to hear from people, not from demagogues. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] On April 15th, all the heads of the Galician cardiology service, all of them, Lugo's, Ourense's, all of them. First time that happens. And everyone understands that it is fundamental and capital that was discussed here and that we approve here: the unique record of mortality and morbidity due to myocardial infarction. You can't shoot figures like the one you just shot here, Mrs. Burgo, from an area, from another area, from another area... that's not the case. You need to have a unique record in order to compare the data. And I'm telling you, as I said in that situation, that if the comparison of data offers greater mortality or morbidity in the Ourense and Lugo areas in the comparison that should be done evenly, with unique records from Galicia, do not doubt it, we have to extend the operating time of the hemodynamic units. Professional criteria, professionals are the ones who have to decide on this issue. Let us not disrupt the debate. And it was planned for 2015. In 2015 it was when this unique record that we put on the table was raised. In the last debate that was here at best in that last turbulence, we didn't understand this message that we were launching. And there's a data that has to be compared, maybe it didn't get understood. If you don't understand, I want to make it clear today, I want to make it clear today. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u217	It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u218	2015 is used to compare the data from the single log, and the single log collects morbidity and mortality. And there's a fundamental fact that we have to study. How is the prognosis and mortality in patients with anxioplasty over 120 minutes? If the difference between Lugo and Coruña is great, they don't doubt it, you have to implant the unit running 24 hours. Also in Ourense, we don't forget.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u219	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u220	We have to compare all areas, that's the debate, that's the question. Professional criteria, not political demagogy, not using the sick as if they were doing.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u221	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u222	Lugo's hemodynamics unit is implanted thanks to President Feijóo's betting on it. That's the real reality. Nothing else, Madam President. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u223	Thank you very much. Parliamentary group which is the author of the non-legislation proposal. You have the floor to Mrs. Burgo López.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u224	Thank you very much, Madam President. It is noted, by the applause of the People's Party, the People's Group, that they were in a very difficult situation and that they thought they were doing well. But they didn't go well, gentlemen of the People's Party. Because the lights know perfectly well what's going on. First of all, I would like to thank the opposition groups who will support this GNP. I want to tell the middle lady of the Joint Group that I agree with what you say, but that we are not going to support her because that's something that she has to decide independently for the Deputy in negotiations with the Joint Group, whether the Board wants to negotiate and accept that offer of money, budget, to put on hemodynamics for 24 hours. By the way, EUR 100,000, yes, which says it costs the head of the HULA Cardiology Service, publicly reflected in newspapers and the media. Mr. Santalices, I think it's very good that you make all the records you want. But you know what's going on? That while you record the lights die, you know? Because the data is already there, because the comparison data between areas is there. Because mortality is the immediate mortality. And what's very serious is one-year mortality, which is multiplyed by five. The data is. The criteria are statistical and the statistics are in the INE and cardiologists, because I give data that cardiologists give. Look, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, no one will understand that you're still clinging to not putting on hemodynamics for 24 hours. Of course, the lights won't understand. And we're going to continue fighting for something that's fair, we're going to continue fighting for the lumens to have exactly the same rights as the rest of the Greeks. We're going to keep fighting the neighbors, I don't doubt them, and, of course, the Socialist Party, and I'm sure that the rest of us, too, will continue fighting, Mr. Santalices. Because you no longer have any reason or reason, you know it perfectly, to keep this from happening. And now, Mr. Santalices, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, not only don't want to put on hemodynamics, they're preventing it, because it's possible, because it won't cost them a hard one. And instead, stop him. Well, we need to know why I insist, what dark interests you're defending. I want, finally, nothing more, to make a petition, to make a personal request, as a party, but also as a person. I commend and ask the Members of the People's Party of Lugo and I ask the Member to be mayor of the city of Lugo...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u225	Finish, please, Mrs. Burgo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u226	...that they vote in favour of this, that they vote in favour of the lumens, not of the death of the lumens. They show that they're with the lights, that they're there to defend their interests, and not the interests of a government, which, of course, must be very dark interests so they don't contain themselves here.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u227	Thank you very much, Mrs Burgo. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u228	Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u229	Next proposal. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo and D. Francisco Jesús Jorquera Caselas, on the declaration by the Galician Union of 2016 as the Year of the Brotherhood of Speech, and the establishment of a programme of activities to disseminate their work
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u230	No amendments have been tabled to this non-law proposal. You have the floor, for your formulation, Mrs. Pontón Mondelo, of the Galician Nationalist Block.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u231	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good afternoon. Today the Galego Nationalist Block defends an initiative in which what we literally ask for is that next year 2016 is officially declared the Year of the Brotherhood of Speech and that, in congruence, the Union establishes a programme of activities which makes it possible to disseminate to all the people of Greece the knowledge of the very important work that this organization has done clearly to achieve a more cult, freer, fairer and more committed to itself, and also, as it does not, that this statement means that it provides the necessary funds to all the bodies responsible for carrying out this program. We are therefore faced with an initiative that wants to remember and remember those who have raised the struggle and the flag of Galician defense and who have fought against the eraser of our memory and also against ignorance. We also collect with this proposal the feeling not only of many people, but also of many entities that are working in the cultural field. I would like to recall that it was precisely in the presentation of an initiative also against the deletion of our history, as is the Historical Archive of Nationalism, driven by the Foundation Alexandre Bóveda, Bautista Álvarez, Galicia Always, Losada Dieguez, Manuel María, Moncho Reboiras, Vicente Risco, along with the magazine Murguía and the Museum of the Galician People, where the need to walk towards the recognition of 2016 as the Year of the Brotherhood of Speech has already been mentioned. An initiative that also collects the feeling and the position of the Council of Culture itself, or other initiatives that also fight against dememorism, such as Ora Gaga, which has sent us this text that we are discussing today. Because, as your lords know, 2016 is the centenary of the Foundation of the Brotherhood of Speech, an act that took place on May 16th in the place that the Galician Academy had in the city of Coruña, and that was precisely the impulse of some personalities of the time as Antón Vilar Ponte, who promoted this kind of initiative. An initiative that at the time took and hosted around 20 people, including Ramón Vilar Ponte himself, Micaela Chao – the only woman who attended this event and who is often also deleted from the history of the Brotherhood – and other personalities such as Manuel Lugrís, Uxio Carré, Luís Porteiro or Florencio Vilar. They tell the chronicles that this very important event in our collective history began with the brief words of Antón Vilar Ponte and with a speech by Lugrís Freire and that later discussed the first statutes of this new entity that was born with the name "Friends of Gallega", although it soon became popularized with the name "Brotherships of Speech", and that they had already declared at that time that their fundamental objective was to promote the awakening, affection and love of Galician children towards their own country. It was born, therefore, of the effort of the Greek intellectualry at that time, which was very concerned about the collapse of our country, which also collected the tradition of the 19th century – because things are not born in isolation – of the entire Rejudicement and of our precursors of the 19th century, of Murgiía, of Pondal, of Rosalía and of Curros and which, ultimately, were trying to articulate in Galicia a movement of defence and a movement of reaction to centralism. I would therefore like to read today a brief text by Ramón Vilar Ponte where they were already launching what were the reasons and the necessity for the existence of this new organization. It says this text: "Before the year seventeen the feeling of galeguity was almost completely faded on our land. Our language, our lyric, the things of our history were studied and treated by some, very few, Greek as archaeological facts. A cold erudition spoke of race characteristics in an objective way; so if Galicia were a dead, distant planet. There were inventories made of the priest without any emotion, except for the very counties of the country. The four provinces in which centralism broke out lived the administrative life of Hespañol who were torn apart from each other, without feeling already the slightest longing for the old drive of Galicia. And the inhabitants of the same -- I write population and non-residents, because the residents assume the concept of intimate adherence to the customs of the native ground -- exchanged in simple inhabitants of a territory, who had stopped being a country with a soul, in a suicide struggle with their own being, they had Madri for their only meridian, intellectual, moral and artistic. The Castelian colonization region has now infused in most of our countrymen the shameful feeling of self-inferiority itself, which still costs us to discard some." This is a text that already lets you know what concerns people at that time, intellectuals, who pushed this organization that quickly spread throughout the country, which was clearly also pursued during the dictatorship of Primo de Rivera, but, in any case, that did a fundamental work to the Second Republic in the recovery of language, culture and defense of Galicia as a political subject. In fact, behind the Brotherhood are not only a political idea in the defence of Galicia as a nation but also facts of our fundamental history and without those who would not understand the present that we have today. They are responsible for the foundation of Our Earth, which is founded, precisely on November 14, written entirely in Greek, which assumed a very important step forward – by the way, that we are still in need of the Greek media – today. They are also responsible for symbolic milestones of great importance to our country; in fact, July 25 is the Galician Homeland Day, the Galician Day, because it was thus baptized by impulse of these Brothers in the second nationalist assembly in 1920, and they carried out a very important cultural work, especially in the dissemination and modernization of a Welsh theatre, in Galician, which was a very important element of popularization of ideas, of the defence of Galician, but also of the dignity of the language itself, and where an important renewal process was carried out, and they were also disseminated or given great importance to all literary work and all the work and essay or consolidation of a Greek and Greek-language journalism. We are therefore faced with a very relevant milestone in our history, and we believe that in the Greek Parliament, also due to the work that these people have done and that these entities have done over these years, today we should honor their memory. Because, as we say on our initiative, this entity has brought about a decisive milestone in the development of Galician consciousness and in the defense of its language, culture and identity, which has been a clearly democratic and vanguardist movement, which still demonstrates to us how the peoples and the struggle of the people for their existence, for the equal treatment of languages, for the equal treatment of all people regardless of their condition, remains an imperative necessity of our times, and because we believe, as Castelao said, "that Galicia will only deserve respect when she abandons her meekness, knowing what it was, what it was no longer and what it would be with independent life." Today we pay tribute to the women and men who in the early 20th century were continuing to defend Galicia, and we believe that this Parliament would honour not only its memory but itself by supporting this statement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u232	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Intervention of parliamentary groups. The Joint Parliamentary Group has the floor to Mrs. Iglesias Sueiro.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u233	Thank you, President. How can we not support this initiative? At the beginning of the 19th century the recovery of the Greek language was ascending and achieved an important degree of development that was essentially the work of a cultural elite. But the social situation in Greek continued to deteriorate due to the decline of monolingual speakers because of the exclusive literacy in Spanish and the total lack of the national language in the Administration and in the Church. The Greek society continued to be characterized by the concentration of economic power in minority sectors, a feudal agricultural system and a growing emigration that gradually emptied the country – very similar to the whole year we are living 2015–2014, and the previous ones, and I hope not the next ones –. In 1916 the first Brotherhood was created in the city of Coruña, promoted, among others, by Antón Villar Ponte, for the purpose of defending and using the national language as a vehicle language in all areas of society. Very soon these organizations extended to many cities of Galicia, Cuba and Argentina, promoting remarkable language studies, demanding the presence of language in teaching and administration and collaborating in the development of dictionaries and grammars. But one of his great achievements was that in 1920 the magazine We, which gives the name to the most important literary generation of the Greek culture, and of which are part Castelao, Cuevillas, Vicente Risco and Otero Pedrayo, among others. The program of these homeless people consisted of removing the Greek culture from folklorism and the unilateral influence of the Castelian culture. For the first time, Greek culture is universal when it comes to direct contact with European aesthetic ideas and science. The Second Republic is the political framework in which the Statute of Self-Government is approved led to the Spanish Courts by the deputy of the Galician Party Daniel Rodríguez Castelao, who did not see its approval because it was truncated due to the military coup d'états against a democratically elected government. It's the first time the language acquires official language recognition. This is a date to be taken into account, a fact which I consider to be very important. But unfortunately, as I said before, the Civil War, the coup d'état, trumps the approval of the Statute of autonomy and we see ourselves subject to what Celso Emilio Ferreiro would call "The Long Stone Night." Repression also ended with the activities of the Brotherhood, and they were absorbed by political groups and cultural organizations. So the year 2016, which is the centenary of the creation of the first Brotherhood, is rightly the commemoration of this efemeride and the evaluation and dissemination of the role of the Brotherhood of Speech in favor of universalization and dignity of culture and national language. Thank you very much. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u234	Thank you very much, Mrs. Churches. For the Parliamentary Group of the Left Gaga Alternative, Mr. Ron has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u235	Good morning to all and to all. From Alternative Galga de Left we will support this initiative because we are talking about a fact of relief, of a milestone, which brings together all the essential characteristics that must have a tribute, a reminder, a year; ethical exemplaryness, and above all to know where we want to go. What we want is that this ransom, this process of recalling a cultural fact in its breadth, with the unquestionable social and political implications, serves as a recognition for future generations, so that this heritage will serve as a foundation to project us towards the future, because in that past, of course, is what we are today. We're talking about a complicated, difficult process, a path that took precisely from 1916 to 1936, through the proclamation of the Republic in 1931, and in what we see as four or five fundamental axes. The first one is that a group of people are right to begin the process of launching Galicia as a nation in a federal setting, and they even spoke, within that political program of involving even Portugal in that federality. The second point, the Greek as the language of that nation, as an oral language, as a language of use, spoken and used at all times in all spaces. Thirdly, we must emphasize that the Brotherhood of Speech has put in place substantial elements of what we call democracy as the axis of politics; and, for example, we can talk about equality of women's rights. And, above all, because in them, in the Brotherhood of Speech, there is what is today precisely an autonomous government, which is the autonomous government of the Council of Galicia. So, we understand that this initiative is done, because with them, with the Brotherhood of Speech, not only are these four axes but it has logically produced a literary, artistic and cultural renewal, and, of course, to dive into all the aspects that these people touched because we would be logically surprised and amazed. And so it is logically seen by society, so it is seen by the Royal Galaga Academy, so it is seen by the Galician Council of Culture, which will dedicate to them, for example, from 2016 to 2018, two years. Because, logically, in those two years, since 1916, it's when the Brotherhood of Speech is launched, when local assemblies begin to extend until soon 28 local assemblies, when November 14, 1916, Our Earth, when December 28, 1916, Quantities of the Earth are created, etc. Because logically we have enough cultural, heritage, literary elements to study. And we cannot forget that in that process that was the dictatorship with king, that was the dictatorship of Primo de Rivera, because these intellectuals, these people, have logically also faced censorship, the intellectual repression that this dictatorship applied to Galicia. Because there was nothing they wanted to play – political, political notes, news notes, literature and folklore – that was not mutilated by the censorship of the dictatorship of Primo de Rivera. Therefore, in this context of attack on the movements of national affirmations of the different nations that formed and formed the State, which would soon reach this proclamation of the Republic, since logically it is necessary to remember, but above all to learn from the lights and also...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u236	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u237	... logically from the shadows not to fall into them in the future. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u238	Thank you very much, Mr. Ron. Socialist Group. Mrs. Burgo Lopez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u239	Thank you very much, Madam President. Very good days again, gentlemen. Of course, the Socialist Group will support this non-law proposition of the Nationalist Block of Wales, of course. It seems to us a very appropriate, very timely proposal, because we also consider that, of course, the centenary of the foundation of the Brotherhood of Speech cannot go unnoticed in this country. It can't be done, and we also find it fundamental and very timely that 2016 is the year of commemoration. And we look like it because, at last, we all know that the Brotherhood of Speech is one of the most important cultural and political movements in our history and that must be commemorated. It's been said here for all of us, the most important data from the foundation of the Brotherhood of Speech in the Coruña in 1916 by the Villar Ponte brothers. And in that same year I wanted to point out that from the very beginning he had an extraordinary spread in all towns and cities – Ferrol, Santiago, Betanzos, Vilalba, Monforte –, which proves the prompt involvement of the ideas of the Brotherhood of Speech with Galicia's cultural fabric and political fabric; therefore, he comes to fill an intellectual need at that time. And he had a very important expansion -- I think it has to be highlighted -- because after 1936, what's going to happen in this country, it's important to describe that projection that he had towards America, towards Latin America, with fundamental features in Bos Aires and Havana. Because that's also what gives the possibility of survival of these concerns at a time when, as we know, here in this country we couldn't talk about any of this. I also want to point out that, of course, there is a fundamental part of the fact that they immediately had written broadcasters. This importance of the Greek cult, in writing, with its own press, as Our Earth has already in 1916, and in 1920 the foundation of the magazine We, which names this whole generation, the Generation Us. But also the Home collection or the foundation of the Galician Seminary of Studies. Already in the first issue of Our Earth in November 1916, Villar Ponte outlined the main ideas of the movement – he said – and I quote: "The keen encouragement of our language and the study of our economic problems." Two lines will follow from the first moment. And it opens here – as we all know – a crucial period for the claiming of the Greek language, a decisive step towards dignity and modernization, but above all also to defend Greek, a language that was a differential fact and that served not only for the poetic prose but for all records, an elitization of the Greek language. A language that has now become a cultured language, and we know how important that is. Of course, in this intellectualization of Welsh, as we all know, the greatest exponent can be Castile, but the whole Generation We formed the basis of modern Greek culture and its literature. What we do not understand – and I hope that if we vote in favour and then we can understand it – is like the Galician Union, which is the institution that legally has the obligation to defend and encourage our culture and our language has nothing prepared, said nothing until now, of the commemoration of the foundation of the Brotherhood of Speech, which had not said anything at all. The Galician Council of Culture has said so, has already made public that between 2016 and 2018...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u240	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u241	...will have a great tribute to the Brotherhood of Speech, also in connection with the Brotherhood of American Emigration. The Board said nothing, and I can't believe that he does absolutely nothing about a movement that leads in his bosom to figures like Anton Villar Ponte...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u242	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u243	...Vicente Risco, Otero Pedrayo, Cuevillas, Castelao, Ramón Cabanillas... so I hope they vote in favour of this initiative. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u244	Thank you, Mrs. Burgo. People's Group. You have the word of Mr. Agustín Baamonde.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u245	Well, thank you very much, Madam President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the concept of brotherhood that is obviously incorporated into Galicia's collective memory. Still remains the memory of that other brotherhood which, with the cry of God, Brother Gallaecia stood up in arms against the oppressive nobility. And now, on this initiative, if we are asked to recognize another brotherhood, that of speech, which is also incorporated into that collective memory by its work in favor of Galician language and culture as well as its identity. Obviously, we do not escape that at the bottom of this initiative the idea of the Brotherhood as a precursor movement and also an initiator of political nationalism. Here's the evolution of at least one part of them. And we are also aware of those words of Fernández del Riego when he said that many of the members of the Brotherhood considered speech as "an instrument of struggle necessary to achieve their own identity, a cultural identity and a legally authentic culture." But, despite that, we respect political plurality, especially when it is expressed with loyalty and nobility, as the Brotherhood of Speech did, we understand that the Brotherhood is worthy of respect and also of the recognition of all Greeks for their irrevocable contribution, indeed, to the defense of the Greek language and culture, to the defense of Galician identity as a political subject within a general context of regeneration of the country. And we defend it primarily for one reason: it is likely that in the collective imaginary there will remain, above all, the immense names of the sordid individualities who have stepped up the movement and who have already been named here, or their most outstanding collective actions: We, Our Earth, the Seminary of Galician Studies. But it is also true, as many authors point out – for example, Monteagudo, Villares, Sanchez, the Council of Culture itself – that surely the most essential and enduring feature of the Brotherhood of Speech was their way of working, collective and organized work, the integral effort in the broad social sectors, the ability to become present in the country as a whole by presenting and promoting common projects. The Brothers spoke fundamentally quickly and energetically because they were able to recognize Galicia's plural reality and, consequently, they took forward a project to defend language and culture based essentially on the criterion of not excluding anyone and on the criterion of not making taxes of any kind. Precisely, on the subject of this, let me take this into account: in the face of sectarian behaviors of ideological bias, of exclusive and exclusive claim, it is evident that this diversity of the Brotherhood of Speech, far from constituting a weakness, has contributed decisively to the transcendence of its mission. And he made a decisive contribution to ensuring that the influence of Galicianism penetrated virtually all areas of society. This inclusive and plural spirit is what made the Brotherhood of Speech a movement not only capable of recuperating the past but also of certainly pointing towards the future. As Mr Ron well said, there are many of the purposes gathered by the Brotherhood in his Lugo as a program, which are now incorporated into Galician reality: autonomy status, language co-feficiality, skills in education, etc. And I end by expressing a clear idea: that this lucidity that the Brotherhood of Speech had to join around what was common, that lucidity to know what the Greek society needed, to know how to read it, instead of imposing what it had to do, also serves as a reference for the defense of Greek. And for that reason, as we all believe that the best tribute that can be paid to that generation that has led to this formidable process is that of the union of all political and social forces in the defense of language, we will definitely vote on this initiative. I am finished with a brief consideration: we believe that honor should be given to those who honor the history of Galicia, and that is why we vote affirmatively. We also believe that we should strictly use this type of recognition, it's not going to be that, by excess of...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u246	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u247	...iconoplasty, we end up looking – as the great Juan Soto would say – seminarians in procession praying to saints of scale. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u248	Thank you very much, Mr. Baamonde. Group author of the non-law proposal. You have the floor to Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u249	Thank you very much, Madam President. I am glad that today we can vote all groups affirmatively through a text that is the only text that seeks to be officially declared the year 2016 as the Year of the Brotherhood of Speech. And it seems to us that it is very important that we respect history and try not to denaturalize or rewrite history or what each of the different entities or organizations meant. It is clear that the Brotherhood of Speech program was not the current status of autonomy of Galicia; in fact, I believe that many of its points would not subscribe to them today by the People's Party, which is promoting a process of recentralization, which is promoting a process of marginalization of the Greek language and which is clearly going in another direction. We're not talking about it anymore today, and I've made a lot of sense to do it in my first intervention. I know the People's Party can't resist this kind of thing. In any case we, nationalists, do see ourselves reflected, of course, in the work done by the Brotherhood of Speech and in its full autonomy programme for Galicia, of municipal autonomy, of Galician entry into the League of Nations, of seeking the bases of possible federalism with Portugal, of that Galicia has a full parliamentary legislative power elected directly by the people, that provincial deputies are suppressed – for example, would today be a very vigilant initiative, right?, that I think many of its lords would not be willing to assume –. I believe that those who have my physical left – but, of course, not political – are not on these kinds of issues. In any case, for us, the relevant thing is that this Parliament today recognizes the work that these people, men and women in Galicia have done in their time, and we also continue to say that the best tribute we can make to them is that these ideas become reality. Because it's, of course, what the Galician Nationalist Block is working on.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u250	Thank you very much, Mrs. Pontón. So we started with the vote on non-law proposals. Voting of non-legislative proposals We shut the doors. We begin with the vote on the proposal by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mrs Sestayo Doce, to which no amendments have been tabled. We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of Da Beatriz Sestayo Doce and two other Members, on the demand to be made by the Government of Greece to the Central Government in connection with the proposed reform of civil registers. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 34; votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. This proposal is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u251	Why do you say it's a motion? We are voting non-law proposals, Mr. Puy, starting with the first of the non-law proposals. [[Mr. Puy Fraga pronounces words that are not perceived.]] The motions were voted yesterday. Well, I guess anyone can be wrong, right? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] We then vote on the non-law proposal from the Joint Group, at the initiative of Mrs Iglesias Sueiro, which I believe does not accept the amendment of the Socialist Group; we therefore vote on the proposal. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. Together, at the initiative of Da Carmen Iglesias Sueiro and Da María Consuelo Martínez García, on the performances to be carried out by the Government of Greece in connection with the project of overthrow of the Youth House building, located in Santiago de Compostela's Matadoiro Square. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 16; against, 41; abstentions, 18. The result of the vote is negative. This proposal is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u252	We voted on the proposal of the Galician People's Parliamentary Group, at the initiative of Mr Farína Sobrino, who does not accept the amendment of the Joint Group, nor of the Galician Nationalist Block, and came to a transaction which was communicated to me with the amendment of the Socialist Group, which I am going to read because it is about adding to the resolution text the following question: "And that this project is carried out in collaboration with the chess federations and other representative associations." So we would vote on the initial text with this plugin as a result of the transaction with the socialist amendment. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. People of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr Hippolito Farínas Sobrino and seven other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia to enable, from the point of view of the autonomy of educational centres, the progressive implementation of chess in a cross-sectional and specific nature in primary education curricula and ESO. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 59; abstentions, 16. The voting is positive. This proposal is therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u253	We then voted on the proposal from the Galego Nationalist Bloc Parliamentary Group, on the initiative of Mrs Prado Cores, who said that he accepted the socialist amendment and did not accept the amendment of the Popular Group. We therefore voted on the proposal with the amendment incorporated by the Socialist Group. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da María Montserrat Prado Cores, on the allocation to the district of Salnés by the Government of Galicia of a permanent service throughout the year and the 24 hours of the day of, at least, a medical or vitally advanced ambulance. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 34; votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. This proposal is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u254	We voted on the proposal from the Parliamentary Group of the Gaga de Left alternative, on the initiative of Mr Beiras Torrado, who said that he accepted the amendment of the Socialist Group. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Alternative Galga de Left, at the initiative of D. Xosé Manuel Beiras Torrado and D. Antón Sánchez García, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in relation to the claims made against the companies Galaico-Asturian electric bars, S.A. and BEGASA, by the alleged fraudulent manipulation of electric counters. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 34; votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. This proposal is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u255	We are voting on the proposal from the Galician People's Parliamentary Group, at the initiative of Mr Tellado, which I believe does not accept the amendments to the Block and Alternative tabled. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. People of Galicia, on the position of the Galician Parliament in relation to the content of the European Parliament Resolution of 12 March 2015, concerning the situation in Venezuela, and respect for human rights in that country. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 59; votes against, 16. The voting is positive. This proposal is therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u256	We voted for the Parliamentary Group's proposal... silence, please. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I pray silence; if not, we do not hear what we vote after. [[Murmurs.]] Proposal by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, on the initiative of Mrs Burgo, who said that she did not accept the amendment of the Joint Group Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the performance that must be carried out by the Government of Galicia in connection with the offer of the Provincial Deputation of Place of Financing for the implementation of the hemodynamic service 24 hours of the University Hospital Lucus Augusti, de Lugo The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 34; votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. This proposal is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u257	We voted in number 8 on the proposal from the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, at the initiative of Mrs Pontón Mondelo, to which no amendments have been tabled. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo and D. Francisco Jesús Jorquera Caselas, on the declaration by the Galician Union of 2016 as the Year of the Brotherhood of Speech, and the establishment of a program of activities to disseminate their work. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 75. The voting is positive. This proposal is therefore adopted unanimously, not by law. Institutional declaration
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u258	Before I continue with the development of the agenda, the groups made me come up with an institutional statement, which, if it seems to them, I will read at the moment: "In 2015, on the occasion of the 40th anniversary of the assignment by Spain of the administration of Western Sahara, the Galician Parliament wishes to reaffirm its commitment to the future in freedom of the people of Sahara, assuming and renewing the important agreements reached at the last Conference of Parliamentary Intergroups Peace and Freedom in Western Sahara, which took place in Pamplona on 21 February. The Galician Parliament, given the imminent meeting of the United Nations Security Council these days, in particular on 30 April, which meets to deal with the Saharan conflict, urges the Government of Spain to give priority, as a member of the United Nations Security Council, to matters relating to the fulfilment of the Western Sahara Peace Plan, in order to obtain, without further delay, a just and definitive solution, which will bring to practice the right of self-determination of the Saharan people by holding the referendum. We consider it essential that, in view of the grave situation in Western Sahara, the United Nations Mission for the Referendum in Western Sahara –Minurso – should obtain the power to monitor and safeguard the human rights of the Saharan population in Western Sahara. We urge public institutions to step up solidarity and humanitarian support for both the refugee population in Tinduf camps and the Saharawi people in Western Sahara, and we renew Parliament's commitment to the attention and follow-up to the Saharan conflict. We invite the media, solidarity people and civil society to spread the reality of the Saharawi people, and we thank the efforts of the professionals who work in the fields of university, judicial and solidarity to achieve a future in freedom. Santiago de Compostela, or April 29, 2015." [[Approved by consent.]] [[Applause]] We continue with the development of the agenda, with the question mark. Da Eva Solla Fernández's interview with G.P. of the Alternative Gaga de Left, on the beds closed during the summer of 2014 in the hospitals of Sergas and the coverage of staff vacations
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u259	Eva Solla, of the Parliamentary Group of the Left-wing Galician Alternative, has the floor to make an inquiry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u260	Thank you, President. Today we bring this questioning and asking – or asking – about the closure of beds in the Greek hospitals and about the coverage of holidays in the Galician Health Service during 2014. I know it's a very interesting subject. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] We bring it with the intention of obviously talking about closing beds and covering vacations, already proposed by the Government by this 2015. [[Murmurs.]] But, Mrs. Mosquera, if you prefer to stick to the text and answer the 2014 text, I will be delighted – among other things, because, when we ask before and after the closing of the summer beds in 2014, you haven't answered any of these questions; therefore, it remains vigilant, still, that question. Its opacity and usual data cover are a constant. Since our entry into Parliament, you have refused to give up, first, the singular agreement of Povervisa – the previous one and then the current one – and voted against it. They refused to answer each year about non-structural waiting lists – a staff member not included in those lists that you give as officers. They refused to give each year the bed data that will be closed at each hospital – we need to know some data from the press. They have refused, since we started asking for them, to give the data on the number of staff vacations that are covered in summer and Christmas. They refused to give the budget data available for hepatitis C medication, which happened the other day in the Health Committee. They refused to give the data of transfers to private centers and concentrated from public centers, we asked – as you will know – several times, every time there is a collapse in the emergencies. The Galician Parliament's regulation says that Members have the right to receive "information and documentation for the development of their tasks". Article 10 of the Statute of Self-Government is the function of Parliament to "control the executive action of the Galician Union"; Article 17: "The Council of Galicia is politically accountable to Parliament in solidarity". Reality has already been described to her in her last appearance. You will continue to refuse to comply with the law, to give the data in this House, but since the People's Party arrived in the Government you have reduced by 6% the workers and workers in public health – 2,000 less professionals –. The strangulation of a continuous health system collapsed by its policies – 450 beds less than last year; you continued to argue that the bed resource was no longer so important. You must have little courage, I've told you, to say that, when there are eternal collapses in hospital services, also because of that lack of beds. I wonder how you can say that when you keep moving sick people to concerted and private centers, even though you are continually refusing to give the transfer data. And if, during the last collapses, you even had to suspend the scheduled surgical activity – i.e. operations – in some centers because there were not enough beds. And before that, and also keeping the waiting lists that you are not able to shorten with your private friends, you still understand that during the summer it is necessary – according to you – to close beds. In view of this, and despite the fact that each summer we also suffer these crashes in public-network hospitals, because they continue to err in closing beds: 588 beds in 2010, exceeded in 670 in 2011, exceeded until 787 in 2012, exceeded to 900 in 2013, exceeded until 1,095 in 2014. When you are unable to comply with those 60 maximum days of surgical attention that you yourself have marked in your own law, which you – even in solitude – have adopted in this very House. He's surreal! They're not even able to comply with the 180 days of maximum attention from that previous legislation, either the current or the previous one. And it's no wonder the policy of public policy that you practice: 12% less health budget since you arrived -- I told you at the audience too -- and that, of what there is, 50%, half, you're going to pay for private companies. I mean, half of the public budget is privatized. That's why they cut off from material and resources, so they also cut off from human resources, because the budget is going to be paid to private companies, to multinationals, to concerted centres, to pharmaceuticals, to venture capital funds, to public health system looters. And you send the medical staff in exchange for unemployment. You said in your last appearance something that if it is true – I take absolutely note of everything –. You said, "If you don't hire, don't replace." Although, of course, it's a half-hearted truth because you don't want to hire, and that's why you don't replace most of the staff, you prefer to close your beds, close your primary care consultations, close your specialized care consultations and even reduce your surgical activity. And part of the posts – which have no choice but to cover because they are essential, because if most of the essential services of the health centres did not work – cover us by forcing that staff to move other services to another place where it is necessary to cover a square. Or even prevent them from enjoying their days off: during the breakouts of Christmas, in some agencies, their managers, their managers, they recognized before the media that they had interrupted staff vacations to ask them to join the emergency services. That is, instead of hiring potential staff to cover those absences, they forced the staff to re-enter and, therefore, to encourage unemployment, to violate the rights of workers and health workers. What do you have to say to this? I suppose nothing, I suppose nothing, because you've been evaluating this budget cut, this bed cut, this personal cut, the constant privatization of public health. And what are you going to say, if you've already proclaimed yourself a public and private adviser. We understand that, above all, private. What will you say if you continue your perpetual collaboration with SEDISA? With that lobby of managers and managers who defend the privatization of health, who participate like you in those activities that organize that lobby of pressure that is, of course, working to get more and more into every business that has good within public health. And the high offices of the board, what are you going to say? These high charges, which, by the way, do not stop to let you – or do not stop you from dropping them – in the face of this amazing management that you are carrying out. These and these are also participants and many members of SEDISA, including Sergas' newly appointed health care director. I mean, that man who has to take responsibility for public health care is a firm advocate of privatization – and he is also an extreme that he publicly expresses in the media, with which he is firmly and clearly evident. I told you once, I don't know if you're going to fulfill your obligations today – which has Galicia's autonomy statute itself – and answer it, but I understand you won't; it will continue in the tone or, in any case, justify bed closures by that privatizing policy that you carry out. And the reality -- I told you here in this House, I think it was in 2013 -- is that you're the liquidators of public health, you're privatizing quickly. When you're not here they'll leave a hard inheritance to re-nationalize, difficult. They've come to bring everything profitable to the hands of private companies; whatever is not profitable, of course, they won't want to privatize him. Today we ask you again to carry out your duties, Mrs Mosquera, and answer here because, if not, you will become the advisor to whom they most often have asked you to resign to the Welsh House. Nothing else for now.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u261	Thank you. The Health Counsellor has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u262	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, gentlemen. As you know, the Galego Health Service plans every year – and yes, I say every year – the summer season, the number of beds needed for that period in public hospitals in Galicia. This is not a peculiarity of our system, but it's something that is done, as I said, every year and in all health services. In 2014, more than 86% of the total beds in public hospital centers were operational throughout the year, throughout all summer months. One of the indicators that is taken into account when making this schedule is, of course, the occupation index. The employment rate in 2014 of 77,7 % – compared to 77,5 % of the year 2013–. As you can see, an important mattress of beds available in all centers of the Galego Health Service, in all hospitals of the Galego Health Service. In September – in particular, so you asked me – the occupation index was 78.4%; in addition to that – part of the mattress I referred to before – it is also far from the optimal index that is collected throughout the entire health planning literature of 85% – the best that gives the health literature, as I say, is 85%. With this, ladies and gentlemen, what we do is to fulfil our objective and our duty to manage public funds efficiently; funds, on the other hand, that the Greek citizenship puts into our hands so that we manage them rigorously and efficiently – otherwise it would be a difficultly justifiable defeat of these funds –. Once again, I have to insist on something that has often been heard in this House: the decision on the scope of this programming is taken into account in view of the primary responsibility of the Greek public health to ensure, at all times, the safety and the care quality of patients. Moreover, as we have shown in many moments of the past few years, when beds that were not operational were needed, they were put into operation within a very short period of time. I mean, beds can be activated at any time because they're perfectly available for this operation. Even so, this programming allows us, as I say, to efficiently manage the regulatory vacations of our professionals. Summer, as in other areas, is the period most demanded by health personnel for their holidays. This, of course, conditions the need to replace the workers. This substitution is not possible, especially in certain medical specialties, in certain very specialized faculties, which implies that there would be incomplete equipment left if we replaced 100% of the rest of the equipment, and assistance equipment that could not work properly otherwise. In any case, the Galego Health Service performs this act by following, as it cannot be otherwise, its policy of strict, efficient management and rational use of our physical and human resources, maintaining all the clinical activity that is possible and guaranteeing those processes, of course, that do not allow delay. Since the greatest measure for planning is based on hospital units, hospital units that have to have an obvious impact on patients, it would not be easy – nor would it be efficient – to have empty beds released throughout the hospital. The logic is to plan on the basis of hospital units, and that's what we do every year best and every year in a more efficient way. Also, in the summer season, occupation rates are usually diminished. This also happens because, throughout the year, we have more respiratory infections, more pathology that requires hospitalization. This, ladies and gentlemen, is a clear fact, i.e., in summer months we have rates of occupation year by year lower than in other stages of the year and therefore we also take advantage of those maintenance works in hospitals that could not be done when the occupation rates are higher. And this has to be done again by full hospital units, not by beds and isolated rooms. And even if you don't like it, I have to keep saying that the bed resource is no longer, in public hospitals, an index of effectiveness or effectiveness. We are working more and more to have more hospitalization at home, to have more hospitals every day, to have more and more outpatient surgery – which, on the other hand, are benefits that are highly valued by citizenship – and this enables us, without any doubt, to have higher rates of occupation and not have to depend so much on bed resources. I know you don't like it, but this is how it works in all health services. Every time hospitals are measured, not by the bed resource, but by the technological resources and activities they have, not by the bed resource, but by the hospital activity. And also, even with these resources acting well, every day we have a lower average stay, fortunately, because we were the autonomous community with the highest average stay within a country that has the highest stay in all of Europe. We're correcting it and every time the average stay is decreasing and it's approaching the optimal indices that, as I told you, are the ones that we used to measure ourselves towards greater hospital efficiency. [[Murmurs.]] As far as staff management is concerned, I have to tell you that the medical and nursing staff board remains operational during the summer period, which is not an option for professionals to enjoy their regulatory vacations or, if necessary, when the higher volume of application is concentrated. Last year, they asked for summer vacations, all staff, 18.43% of the average staff; in June they asked for 4.89%, in July 24,28%, and in August they asked for their regular vacations, 38.93% of the staff. And it is your right to ask for these regulatory holidays, and we have to manage the resources so that you can enjoy these vacations – as it cannot be otherwise –. And for that, we have the substitutions, substitutions that are, of course, formalized taking into account the regulations adopted by the Sectoral Negotiation Bureau unanimously by all trade union formations and published in the Official Journal of Galicia on May 9, 2011. And this is an ordinary recruitment list and several special lists: one, which is Pull, which is for contracts under 4 days and then the so-called lists of special areas for those of special awareness or qualification, such as surgeries, critics, hospital emergencies or transplants. These are the lists that are being used, which are public and which are published on the website of the Galician Health Service for regulatory contracts. And, more importantly, there's a tracking commission in each of the integrated management structures in which trade unions are also involved and which follow up on time all the contracts that take place. With which there is little to say about transparency and security for workers. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, the reorganization of hospitalisation resources I believe it is an obligation of any manager, it is an obligation of the Council of Health and the Galician Health Service and, of course, we cannot renounce this obligation, as I say, to manage resources, both physical resources and human resources, in a clear way. And we'll keep working because we think this is what we have to do. When you mention that half of the budget is dedicated to private, of course it does not take into account that we are paying the pharmacy – the prescriptions of the pharmacy –, of course, we are paying pharmacists if they do not give us the drugs – of course we are not yet able to manufacture the drugs –, the light, the water, the gas, the cleaning and all the sanitary products. If you take this into account when you calculate 50%, I have to tell you that 64% of the budget of the Galician Health Service is dedicated to chapter I. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u263	Thank you very much. Groups that want to intervene? Joint Group. You have the floor, Mrs. Motherly Churches.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u264	Thank you, President. Good morning, Counselor. In April 2014 IGC warns that closing more than 1,200 daily hospital beds for four months would cause care problems and increase the suffering of the population. To this day, he proposes this interpellation which has been completed and which is inevitable. Why? Inevitable facts of last year, inevitable, and why? Because according to this New Tribune article, it demonstrates and certifies: "The Government of Nuñez Feijóo has transferred Galician public health management to US investment funds and multinationals." He wrote: "The "American Health Service" of Galicia. Probably because of the recent cessation of the manager of the hospital in Vigo, Mario González, who, under pressure from the citizen mobilization and the demands of his professionals, was committed to rescuing the services of the public private management company Galaria S.A., Radiotherapy, Nuclear Medicine/PET and MRI and integrals in the new hospital in Vigo. Secondly, the prior commitment of the board has its origin in this transfer and overthrow of health to those investment funds and multinational Yankees, who are actually managing and equipping the public health system in Greece. According to the Galician Board of Auditors, Galicia is one of the autonomous communities with greater use and abuse of TACs. That makes us suspect that it is because the radiological protection of Sergas patients takes place through the US multinational General Electric, a company that owns most of the TAC equipment and which, in addition, audits itself. In 2009 former senior positions of Junta and Caixanova create the Netaccesse venture capital fund, followed by Feijóo gives you the prior quote phone and control of public contracts through – it's all an intruder – of the VORTAL Connecting Business electronic platform. This platform consists of large technology and human resources management companies that are specialized in the presence control and productivity of workers. Asemade, VORTAL is involved in Microsoft and Telefónica, companies highly benefited from the privatization of Sergas and currently manage teleassistion, electronic recipe and electronic clinical history. The most recent decision of the board was the acquisition of... –I loan it, if you like –... was the acquisition of ten linear accelerators for the Greek hospitals for 20 million euros. The graced company is another American multinational: Varian Medical Systems. The first accelerator will be installed in the HULA thanks to pressure from the population and professionals, but the other public finance accelerators will be installed in two private management centres: the Galician Oncologic Centre and Galaria S.A., in Vigo, and to the taste of Varian, the multinational. In this way, the new Vigo hospital will be deprived of essential high-tech services, as it has already happened with the central laboratory assigned by the Union to the bottom of high-risk capital, again, CVC-Capio with a cost of 38% below the average after the resolution of a disputeable legality contest where several companies were linked to each other. The UTE – Temporary Business Union – of the new Vigo hospital is formed by Actoa and Bankia, and all public hospitals and health services that Bankia was managing have already passed by the U.S. Health Insurance Unit Centene Corporation, which will probably manage the new Vigo hospital when it comes into operation. The pharmaceutical company – which you used to talk about pharmaceuticals – Zeltia is associated with the American multinational Johnson & Johnson, its star medicine, Yondelis, is included in the List Prescribe Harmful Medicines. Also the research biomedical institutes of the public hospitals of Sergas are co-gested by Johnson & Johnson/Janssen. Little by little, the mismanagement of the Government and the council facilitated the generalization of conflicts of interest and the failure to comply with the law of incompatibilities: presidents of the Advisory Council of the Health Council, the Foundation for Genetic Medicine of Galicia or the Spanish Association against Cancer are linked to the pharmaceutical industry. We are the voice that cries out in the desert, Mrs. Solla, this kidnapped government obeys the voice of its master and has no interest in restorating hospital beds or returning public health to its rightful owner. Nor, of course, to give answers that you don't or don't want to give. "Conseller resigns," so the public health workers received Mrs. Mosquera in her... when she went to accompany the new manager. And so I also want to finish my appearance – my intervention, excuse me –: Counselor, resignation. Thank you very much. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u265	Thank you, Mrs Iglesias. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. You have the floor to Mrs. Prado Cores.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u266	Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Counselor. The truth is, you don't let it down because in your persistence to keep repeating the same arguments, although they're more than proven that they're not true, because look... today the truth is that you said that you have the goal of managing public resources efficiently, but they also have the goal of giving quality public health in this country, I'm telling you to see if you can fit one thing into the other. I'm saying that because it would be good if I could do one thing with the other. And it also left me very calm because you said here today that the beds can be activated at any time, it left me quiet because they don't take them home, leave them in hospitals, closed, but leave them in the hospital; with which, I'm actually a little quieter. The truth is, what has already made me jump over an alarm that has already made me jump regularly is to say that logic is planning based on entire hospital units, not loose beds. Of course, this is a novelty because you're saying that in a hospital where there's, for example, a urology plant if you have to do some kind of activity or not personally hire it, because it shuts it down completely. So I, the fruit of this statement of yours, would ask you to confirm or deny me, for example, the rumors you have at this moment, the suspicions you have at this time in Lugo, in the HULA, where there is a fight that you have planned to close for three months the palliative and hieracy unit, which they have already closed in 2014, in the summer of 2014. I remind you that this unit is fully performance throughout the year, with which this maximum of its planning has to be based on whole units, I suppose it confirms that the unit of palliatives and hieracy of Lugo will be closed, which will close the unit of urology, which I also remind you is the only plant, there is only one urology plant, i.e. it's empty shut down and left without urology service. I suppose Lugo's patients can no longer get sick of this pathology throughout the summer, just as they can not have any heart problems beyond 3:00 p.m. I guess this is the message you want to convey today, too, right? And they will also shut down an entire plant of internal medicine, gynecology. I'd like you to confirm or deny these suspicions you have at the HULA in Lugo. And the truth is, you keep insisting, indeed, that the bed resource is less and less important. Of course, more and less important is bed resource and more and more important is family resource to take care of those patients you send home with high rushes, who send home with probes, who send home even with pathways. The bed resource is less and less necessary, but more necessary is the resource of the family, especially the resource of women; the resource that women have to leave their jobs to go home and care for the elderly and the sick, that is also the message that you have moved here today. I would also ask you, Counselor, to take responsibility for your decisions and not to accuse and hold the unions accountable for your decisions. The trade unions in 2011 signed a contract that you are systematically failing and that you are making contracts for hours, for days, that you are turning health personnel into genuine slaves, those on the recruitment lists, that you have self-responsibility and that you do not intend to blame the unions for what is unique and solely their responsibility, Counsellor. Look, you used ten minutes here today and you didn't say what the schedule would be for this summer. You're wondering what you're planning to do here, why don't you tell me what the schedule is going to be for this summer, Mrs. Mosquera? I remind you that in 2014 you gave that information in April; today is April 29th, you have one April day, why don't you give that information, Mrs Mosquera?, will it be because there are municipal elections on May 24th, and you're going to wait until May 25th to report on what is the planning for the summer?, will the People's Party be able to have the staff and have the population in this uncertainty until May 25th, 2015? At the BNG we hope it doesn't look like undoing. Maybe it doesn't talk about programming because in 2010 you closed 588 beds; in 2011, 670; in 2012, 787; in 2013 they already jumped and closed 1,105; in 2014 they already passed to 1,200 and, at best, the forecast they have for this year, in view of what we can find out about their justification for closing entire hospitalisation units, is that it's going to be such an alarm that they don't dare do it in full campaign and electoral pre-campaign, just like that's the question. And I insist, will you be able to have the population in that uncertainty of not knowing what the surgical programming will be for this summer – that I want to remind you, for those who don't know, what for the board last four months – will it take? A massive closure of beds for four months, which you then came here to say that they were going to open in September and then it turns out that in September they didn't open up, and that then in October they didn't open up and then they took advantage of each year to open them up and some of them were definitely closed down, or that then many of those beds are not accessible to the computer system they're still in hospitals, but they can't be dealt with, Counsellor. Maybe that's why you don't give that information. Maybe that's the way it is. Look, you know that closing beds causes existential problems, it causes the paralysis of surgical activity, this leads to increased waiting lists, this leads to the saturation of the emergency service, a pressure on hospital centers and the staff themselves that is already becoming unbearable, this leads to high premature, this leads to average hospitalization stays below what would be desirable. I know you're warm and warm at home, increasing hospitalization at home, it solves it; warm, blanket, family members take their ways, do the cures... yes, don't say no, Counsellor, you know that's what's going on, because in primary care with less personal care of that hospital in the home, you can't take care of it, they do what they can. To those professionals, you always come out here saying they are fantastic – and we say they are –, I insist that you systematically treat them with care pressure and a pressure to see what conditions you have in our country that is being inhuman. And what did we meet up with? So, rather than prioritising the health of the Greeks and the Greeks, your health care needs, you continue to prioritize the cuts, which are already added to the cut-off of the cut. What's the maximum? If there is no activity, there is no expenditure; with which, you meet targets. Is it more efficient? No, he spends less, but he gives much worse quality care; he spends less, but with less he's not giving the same quality care, he knows perfectly well, Mrs Mosquera, less he's giving less. Of course, what's the point? The objective is clear, why the People's Party with you in mind that, of course, you work for private companies from which they come, to facilitate business, to facilitate Galicia's collection of multinationals from the sector...? That's what you're here for, to mediate these companies and to do the dirty work of the People's Party and the Feijo Nuñez who for that has you who, in truth, enthusiastically performs their duties. That's what I have to admit to him, his job of favoring private business.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u267	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u268	Finished, Madam President. Actually, why are you doing all this? Because if there's emergency saturation, if there's less assistance, if there's a delay in surgical interventions, what does people do? Because they don't want to die. So you, aim accomplished. With which, Mrs. Mosquera, we would like you to have the courage to say how many beds you're going to close this summer. When he's gonna tell the professionals when they go on vacation, if they're not gonna go... what's going on in Vigo? What's going on in Vigo? You announced they'd make the transfer in July, won't you give vacations to the staff in July in Vigo?, how will you?, is this mega-georger they just put on going to solve the problems? What's going to happen in Vigo, Counselor? These are questions we would like you to answer in your reply. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u269	Socialist Group. Mrs. Acuña do Campo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u270	Thank you, President. Good morning again, gentlemen. Good morning, Counselor, neither dismissed nor terminated. Look, your management in front of the public health system in Galicia every day is worse. Do you know why it's worse every day? Because the mistakes that have been made all these years are going to be added and potentiated, something that happens also with the terrible consequences caused by this massive closure of beds that you are making. Your management consists of: reduce drug spending? Very easy, I implant the coop, which pay users. Reduce, as you now told us, the percentage of income? Very easily, I take off my bed, you can't get in, I'll lower that percentage. Look, about a year ago all health unions met to denounce the historic closure of beds, which were about 1,200. But if that was very serious, it is still more so than since it arrived Feijóo many of those beds, Mrs. Mosquera, are kept closed all year long and while you derive the patients from the private because that's really the goal of your management: to damage the public so that they can increase the private, thus bringing Mr. Feijóo's plan into practice. I was told earlier by other honourable Members who preceded me in the use of the word for lack of transparency. You really always hide your data, says they're on that web page of the council that, I don't know, must be a bottomless box where nothing can be found. Look, last year the IGC Health was making an approximation of the number of closed beds, which have already been reflected here. In 2014, in the last year, they spoke of 1,200, but Mrs. Solla on her initiative spoke of 1,095, which has too much transparency. What is very clear, Mrs Mosquera, is not the numbers but the consequences, and whether it's 1,200 or 1,095, the hospital beds closed in Sergas every day and for four months, have caused serious consequences. And the consequences are there: chaos and massive collapse, generalized and maintained in time in every one of our country's emergency services. Because we're clear at this point that the massive closures of kept and generalized beds cause equally massive, maintained and generalized collapses. You were talking to us here about planning to close beds according to a demand... I don't know, a demand you know. Look, I'm telling you to plan to close the beds depending on the collapses because maybe we can fix something. The collapses that you, with the defamation that characterizes it, tried first to deny, after justifying the flu, after the lack of interest of the population in vaccinating the flu. But the flu has passed, Mrs. Mosquera, and the collapses persist and, as much as the PP denies it, people know and suffer. But, look, the consequences of that massive closure are also seen on the waiting lists, those that you say are now not interested in anyone, now that all Galicia is concerned about priorities. Look, these are pamphlets, Mrs. Mosquera, people are very worried about waiting, even waiting for you to see your head doctor because, with that wonderful management that you're doing, it's normal for you to have a waiting list to go to the first level of care. As is normal with you, so are incomes from high precipitation and that's not important for the bed resource. Ask the professionals, Mrs. Mosquera, how every day you look very quick to try to enter patients who have hours and days taken by emergency services, and that doesn't matter the resource bed. I'm not questioning the professionalism of most people working in the public health system here because I really appreciate their effort and dedication, because that's why the system is still working. I'm referring to and questioning from here the professionalism of these chiefs that they only care about is to get along with the agency that named them, which there are, too, Mrs. Mosquera. Without forgetting that these massive closures of beds also have consequences on the economy and unemployment: if you close, you don't hire; if you don't hire, the professionals and the professionals have to pack and go abroad. You can activate those beds that say you don't take home, you can activate them, but tell me, counselor, how do you activate the professionals who are in Germany?, how do you activate them? Look, no doubt, the massive closing of beds is a cut-off measure, saving instead of healing. And it's also a PP measure: to privatize, that's what you're looking for with that measure. That's why today I want to ask you, Counselor, neither resign nor quit, how much did you save with the closure of 2010? And how much do you plan to save with the 2015 closure? Tell us what they spent saving. But, above all, tell us if you have counted the pain generated, Counsellor, in the patients and in the patients for that cut, for those closures, because we can only then evaluate whether that measure is efficient or not. The only thing we have clear is that all of this is causing a major deterioration in the public health system and is benefiting the private sector, and that, after the adoption of the Health Insurance Act, it will benefit even more because these closures increase the delay, add to the waiting lists – those that you do not publish and we do not know – both for surgical interventions and for consultation. So then, when that delay is fired, you will be protected by your law to derive everyone from the consultation and to operate in private. Of course, with people, Mrs. Mosquera, resources, public resources are also curious. So today you should answer clearly how many beds have you kept closed all year long and how many are you going to close this summer? But, above all, you will have to talk to us here with transparency and honesty about the consequences of these summer closures. Don't you think, if it was really an efficient management, would you take advantage of the summer to retrieve the unabated waiting lists from public resources and thus not have to lead anyone to private? That would be to manage the public well and, of course, that's not your interest. You'd rather use the audience for your sake and let me remind you again than your family. Manage for private and therefore I'm sure that one more year will close beds, close plants and close – as you told us here – whole services. And not only the surgical services, Mrs Mosquera, but also the services of palliatives where unfortunately there is work in summer and winter, with catarrh and without it. Look, Mrs. Mosquera, your salary would have to pay you private and not only Povervisa – who also – but all that business input you're giving to our health system. From public companies such as Galaria – which, by the way, even questions the Board of Auditors – to companies such as the UTE of the PP hospital in Vigo – small and private –. By the way, mrs. Mosquera, you've got in Vigo, huh? So messed up that he ran away from Vigo's manager, so messed up that you had to send his trusted man there, the only general director left him, Mrs Mosque, because they've all gone... yes, yes, yes, yes, all of them; that Mr Rubial, who now sent you to Vigo, because you're pretty sure you're going to obey him.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u271	Go finish, please, Mrs. Acuña.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u272	Or I suppose it might be to reward you for your work in the Bioethics Commission. Of course, if you've been able to censor the Commission's conclusions, perhaps you're also able to censor and shut down all those protests you're having, which are doing Vigo's professionals because if you're realizing that you're trying to put them in a hospital without laboratory and without radiology. Tell us who you are, Mrs Mosquera, behind all this business. Tell us what you or the People's Party are going to give that UTE of Vigo's new hospital and tell us, too, who's this time the winner with Mr. Feijóo, tell us here with transparency. Look, and talking about using the public for the benefit of the private, I want to take advantage – and I'm done already – of asking you something that was collecting a media last few days. Tell us how you're using...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u273	Thank you very much, Mrs. Acuña. [[Madam Acuña do Campo speaks words that are not perceived.]] Thank you very much, it's over. [[Madam Acuña do Campo speaks words that are not perceived.]] Mrs. Hold on, it's over, please. [[Madam Acuña do Campo speaks words that are not perceived.]] Yes, but you know that in the interrogations... [[Madam Acuña do Campo speaks words that are not perceived.]] You don't have the floor. [[Madam Acuña do Campo speaks words that are not perceived.]] Ma'am! [[Madam Acuña do Campo speaks words that are not perceived.]] Ma'am! A second call to order. [[Applause]] Mr. Santalices, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u274	No, but stop my time.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u275	Time has been blocked.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u276	Stop the time because this is going on.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u277	Now, now.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u278	Thank you. No, it was to correct a disorder, it wasn't that [...]. Thank you, Madam President. Last April 24th there was a good news, a great news: the Metropolitan Public Hospital Alvaro Cunqueiro de Vigo was handed over. A big new one. [[Applause]] This is already a reality. [[Applause]] As these interpellations were as they were, because it was an interpellation that dates from 2014 – when you have another presentation from the year 2015 on the questions of hospital beds and here we have talked about everything – we could say after this good news – to give you a bit of humor to this! – what Brazilians said: "The World Cup is ours"; we will transform it into something else: the biggest health infrastructure is ours, it is the Galego Health Service. [[Murmurs.]] We're proud. [[Applause]] I define this as, coincidentally with Mrs. Acuña, the hospital PP: public hospital and pointer, fortunately, public and pointer. [[Murmurs.]] A public hospital for all you want. What surprises me is that light part of this left is so against this hospital. It's a surprising thing, no one can understand it. [[Murmurs.]] Left light, yes, for there is the left and left light; for me it is light, this is the left light. I am surprised that this left light is so against this infrastructure, because there have been so many pitfalls that since the 24th day this work has been delivered, you should be satisfied because, if we're talking about hospital beds, Counsellor, the incorporation of the new public and metropolitan hospital Álvaro Cunqueiro... by the way, I'm going to stop at Álvaro Cunqueiro because they sent me a huge picture where you see a large sign "Alvaro Cunqueiro", which is what the hospital is called. [[Murmurs]] Therefore, I would ask all the gentlemen that, as this is already official and has been approved by this Parliament, from this day on they are called Public Hospital Álvaro Cunqueiro, whose name is the hospital, has a name. [[Applause]] Well, this hospital, talking about closing hospital beds, incorporates 1,465, so it did that data. You're asking what's going to happen this summer, because we've incorporated 1,465 beds into the public system, what do you think? It seems to me a wonderful, extraordinary news. You come here to talk about closing beds and we tell you that we incorporate 1,465 beds. Then here he derived everything in private, who goes to private... look, we're not going to get involved in the defense of the public, the defense of the private, because oh! If we get into it, if we get into it, if we get into it, get out! [[Murmurs.]] Professors, you know this! And they take the irony, they take the irony, you know, you know, you take the irony. So don't play me on this thing that has its turbulence. Public defense always, but we're going to be a little cautious. Therefore, Counsellor, now that the hospital is ours, Galician Health Service, I think it is now time for you to support certain proposals. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I know it hurts there, but now it goes, they still have time to rectify, they still have time. [[Murmurs.]] And one of the proposals now on the table -- because you guys in sanitation didn't want to collaborate -- in the other hits they didn't want to collaborate -- that what they wanted is to spare the hospital for as much as it costs them -- now there's a new matter in which they still have the chance to help, and it's transport. There's a hand to help. In transport, there are a lot of people involved, not only the workers but also the family members and the sick ones who come. This hospital is a reference point for the entire southern part of Galicia. And I'm going to give a very important data: in Vigo there are 98,000 ores and Ourense has as reference that hospital, and they have to move and they have to look for the way out, unfortunately for a health problem, and they have to come to that hospital. They convince the beloved leader that it is good to give help to the people who have to travel, facilitate transportation, facilitate transportation to the professionals, don't put the last stop. The Cunqueiro Alvaro is a reality You, who is always...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u279	Mr. Losada, you have a call to order.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u280	...about... you, you. [[Mr. Losada Álvarez pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Both of you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u281	I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Mr. Santalices, excuse me for a moment. Excuse me a moment, Mr. Santalices.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u282	This gentleman always gets nervous about this matter.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u283	Excuse me a moment. It was in case Mr. Losada didn't hear you have a call to order. Continue, please. Well, I think it's all right. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And Mr. Gallego too. Go on, Mr. Santalices.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u284	But the important thing is... No, I'm sorry... the important thing, Madam President, is that you make transport easier above the discussion. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] No, no, if you facilitate transport. [[Murmurs.]] Here I go, I go up in defense, I go up... but why are you so nervous, Abel? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Calm down a bit, man! Calm down a little, man, for God's sake! Take it easy! Calm down a little, man, for God's sake! [[Applause]] We're talking...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u285	Silence! Mr. Losada, you have no word.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u286	Please, Mr. Losada, if I know this makes you so nervous, I'll stop talking about Álvaro Cunqueriro Hospital. You want me to stop talking? You want me to stop talking?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u287	And no dialogue, Mr. Santalices.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u288	Well, then I'll talk about the Ourense hospital. I'm going to talk about Ourense Hospital. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I'm talking about beds, I'm talking about beds. Now go to the hospital in Ourense.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u289	Ma'am!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u290	You've always put traps at Ourense hospital. For the hospital in Ourense that Mr. Touriño so promised with 140 million euros, that he would do the master plan, nothing at all. But now the hospital in Ourense is building. They're going to increase beds, they're going to increase emergencies, Mr. Touriño went there to candy and dish with a former mayor, 140 million euros nothing, we're not going to talk here about other things that came out in the debate this morning. The reality: the beds will be increased, the hospital in Ourense will be much more comfortable; those are the realities. Look, about the funding. The hospital in Ourense is made thanks to the effort made by the Council with a socialist minister and through the innovation funds it is possible to do this work, that's called working in coordination. Vigo's hospital manages in the only way possible. Look, Mr. Gallego, that you're an understanding in the matter, I'll give you something. Sweden, which is a clearly antidemocratic country, has unanimously achieved in its Parliament that the Karolinska hospital had been built under the model PFI Unanimity of Parliament. This would be impossible here, that would be impossible!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u291	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u292	Home, France... Home, I didn't get to study France, because I got to study Sweden, which is the Karolinska hospital [...] [[Murmurs]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] By the way, you, Mrs. Acuña, who is today especially... – this goes through cracks, first is Mr. Losada and now, Mrs. Acuña –, now you are especially active, be careful because we all have history and you come here and say that everyone is against Galaria. If Galaria you created it! You have created Gallery, Mr. Cayetano Rodríguez Escudero has created Gallery and now you come here to dynamize Gallery. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And, Mrs Iglesias, with respect to you, the call center – for there is for all –, Mrs Iglesias, helped you with the bipartite to the New Box No, don't say it was the PP, watch out! No, that's adjudicated through Galaria, those who created Galaria were those lords. So, well, here's the thing. But come here to say that Galaria is a... man, yes, it was created... so I think they're making enough effort. I know you're upset with the tech partner, but are we going to leave the hospitals without high-tech equipment? Thanks to the tech partner, you can implant, Mr. Castineira, the...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u293	It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u294	... radiotherapy and preventing Lugo's patients from disloding. That's what you're not in favor of. So much discussion we had in the previous GNP and now you don't approve of what has really been put on the table, which is to avoid these displacements. That's why hemodynamics is going, but what are we talking about? Mr. Touriño also announced this, he couldn't do it, the advisor got 98 million euros to deploy the new technology. We do not speak – because everything has been mixed here – of pharmaceutical spending; of pharmaceutical spending we should all be proud because it allows, among other things, a benefit. You talked about the tree here, the tree exists all your life, the only thing we've done is to prevent those who have no resources, the long-term unemployed, now they pay nothing and they pay 40% before. That's what you don't talk about. It was thought they were pollinating that the prioritized drug catalogue, which was as it really revolutionized...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u295	Thank you very much, Mr. Santalices. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u296	...the concept of pharmaceutical benefit, you dropped it. That's how they behave.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u297	Thank you very much, Mr. Santalices. Mrs. Solla Fernández's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u298	First of all, I want to express my stupor and outrage because this House had become a place for advertising advertising in full electoral campaign. I'm sorry, I'm intervening; when you talk, you'll be in this gallery. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u299	Quiet, please. He's right.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u300	The interpellation was about a particular subject and the spokesperson of the People's Party did not interpelte the advisor nor stood on my interpellation, spoke of what he really wanted. I'm amazed, you can do what you want in this House. Well...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u301	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u302	These are the advocates of democracy, who do not respect Parliament's regulations and do not even answer the issues brought to this House. Anyway. Mrs. Mosquera, how sad! You're not even able to answer a question, an interpellation, from 2014; not even a year ago, you're not able to answer. I'm sorry you manage our health. Too bad because you're just a screen, an essential contributor to public heritage policy in our health care. You said that opening hospitals during the summer – complete – was a blow. Do you hear yourself when you talk? Is it a waste to reduce the waiting lists during the summer months in the public? Is it a waste to treat people normally during the summer? Is it a waste not forcing people to wait in the emergency corridors during the summer? Is it a waste to cover staff vacations? I said barbarity! I hope he retracts, I don't know if he hears sometimes when he talks or if he brings it in writing and doesn't reflect. You're talking about public health as if it were a company. You carry liberalism in your veins, you take liberalism in your veins! And it's allowed to talk about overthrow as if public health was something that had to give some sort of benefit. It's a right, to see if you find out: it's a right, it's not a private company. If you want to manage the private company, you go to the private company, sites won't be missing. You said, moreover, once here in this House, when you referred to the workers of the privatized maintenance service of the Hospital do Mexeiroiro, that, of course, the first were the workers and the public workers – by the way, those who have not been late since the company changed –. Of course, but you didn't give the holiday coverage data, so that the first audiences wouldn't listen to them, either. You forgot to say you only let them take, in the end, fifteen days of summer vacations, because here it seems that the professionals are to blame for taking vacations in the summer. Oh, what privileges! You forget that labor rights have been won with sweat, struggle and death that you still remain unrecognizable and that unfortunately they remain without recognizing their contribution to democracy. Look, you don't know what's going on in our health care, because there's a lot of professionals who don't even let them take summer vacations. I had the few possibilities I had, covering or reducing the day, of taking or enjoying vacations – because the rest of the time, of course, or paying – often they didn't let them catch them in the summer months, forced themselves to catch them in October, in November... and I'm no exception, it's not a norm for communist nurses. How can you dare say that the occupation rate is 77%? First you should clarify how that occupation is accounted for. I ask you in the reply to explain to me the statistical method that they use to calculate that occupation of beds. But to see, Mrs Mosquera, you think about me: if you have beds, why are there beatings continually due to lack of beds? Think about it and think about it: if you have beds, how is it that there are transfers to the private? That's weird! It's a rare thing. Mrs. Mosquera, you don't believe her in your own government, and even Mr. Feijóo came out first and defended her when you censored the report of the Bioethics Commission. They did not, of course, respond in the Health Committee as they justified that censorship in that report. You tell the manager of Sergas, another who doesn't answer either...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u303	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u304	...when he comes to the commission. By the way, from your commitments, zero. Thirteen redundancies in Povervisa that remain dismissed and you have not yet been able to enforce the company's current legality. You don't deserve to manage our public health. You will beat the record of resignation requests. Another year, therefore, of closures and another year, hence of unemployment for health care personnel. Therefore, you may already note one more request for resignation.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u305	Thank you very much. You have the floor to close the debate, the health adviser, Mrs. Rocío Mosquera.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u306	Thank you, Madam President. For the truth is, yes, to mix and mix things, the truth is that we have to come to Parliament, because more mix things cannot be talked about, we talk about what we're talking about, whatever the question is. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] But well, I'll try to answer. Let's see, responsible management – and I say it and I will always repeat it –, responsible management of the public forces resources to be used more efficiently. This is how, and really, no public servant should, in any case, be allowed to do a rigorous and efficient management of public resources. Of course, the mission of the Galician Health Service, Mrs. Prado, is the quality and safety of patients, I have no doubt. That's the first obligation and, of course, the first duty any public manager has, too, but by making good use of public resources. One thing is not incompatible with another, it cannot and must not be incompatible with the other. I beg you, Mrs Prado, to close up complete units such as palliatives or internal medicine. What I said, and I repeat again, is that rigorous management forces you to shut down or have inoperative units when you have to do works or when you have to do certain things. But that doesn't mean, of course, that they're going to close or close, as you say, because, first, the word close is wrong; i.e., they stop using certain units. But you can do it, and I know it bothers you, I know it bothers you, and we've shown you more than once in the last few years, you can get operational from one moment to another the beds that are in the hospitals, as it can't be otherwise. In his interrogation, he was talking about bad public health management policies. Well, recently I brought here data from the Sergas Strategy, from the evaluation of the Sergas Strategy and, of course, I think they are very significant of the improvements achieved and the results. And when we talk about results and indicators, we talk about something that's real and it's demonstrable, we're not talking about opinions, we're talking about realities. Of course, what makes me a little bit surprised is that you doubt that home hospitalization is a significant improvement in the system; last year we made 5,716 home hospitalization incomes with 97,499 stays. This, which is absolutely well valued by all citizens who have been hospitalized at home, who have the highest quality of care in home hospitalization, which guarantees security and quality, which meant 25,496 optional visits and 52,871 nursing visits, which you put in doubt, is that it really makes me quite concerned. Patients who obviously did not need a hospital bed and would need a hospital bed, who avoided morbidity in this kind of patient, which is quality and safety. Well, okay, you criticize home hospitalization. What are we gonna do to him! The largest outpatient surgery that also decreases the need for bed resource. We did last year, they did the professionals of the Galego Health Service over 100,000 interventions in outpatient surgery. 53% of Sergas' surgery is already outpatient and neither is the bed resource needed, and it is, of course, greatly valued by all citizens who don't have to be admitted to a hospital. This really does not diminish the quality or safety of patients for anything. And, of course, to question that the quality and safety of patients for the major outpatient surgery is worsening, which is what you are in the middle of the last century. I have to say that. We're monitoring COPDs, monitoring diabetes, precisely to avoid re-entry, to prevent older people from having to go to hospital because an income in older people is a safe decompensation of their pathology. What you have to do – yes, gentlemen – is treat them as much as possible at home. [[Murmurs.]] And this is the case, I know they don't like it, but what are we going to do with it? And, of course, we have to keep in mind that the professionals, and if I agree – probably with the little that I agree with Mrs Acuña – that we have magnificent professionals who are working and are improving the quality of care every day at their jobs, most of course, in primary care and hospital care.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u307	Thank you very much, Counselor. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Applause]] We suspended the session until 4:30 p.m. this afternoon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u308	Let's resume the session with point five, of interpellations. There are all the spokespersons, who have to be, right? Good. Mr Pablo García García and two other members of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the policy developed by the Union of Galicia in relation to the forest sector
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u309	Mr. Pablo García's word is used to formulate the interpellation.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u310	Thank you, President. I'll be fine, since we're on prime time. Good afternoon, Counselor. Today we bring here the problems of the forest sector – even if it is at this hour –; a sector, indeed strategic for Galicia, as he said today and repeated several times the President of the Union, fulfilling that internal rule that follows the registrable to talk about what does not touch him and what is not asked of him; that is, when we ask him about the naval or automotive sector, he talks about milk, and today, as he spoke about milk, he wanted to speak at all costs of the forest sector. So it's a pity that right now... in any case, I suppose you'll move it, because, in fact, you were right, that the forest sector is another strategic sector as well. I give the figures of importance, therefore, which represents this sector, which is always done here in economic terms, in terms of employment, in industrial fabric, in terms of vertebration; they give us all valid, and that's more, I'm convinced that you're going to dedicate part of the intervention, as you usually do. I also give you all the investments added over the six years of government, which I am convinced you will, so that you can sell the headline with a grandloquent figure without any kind of comparative rigor or analysis, so that tomorrow we can see the big figure reflected in some newspaper with no idea how many zeros of total investment in the top of the six years of investment in that sector. Finally, nothing new, and also, as is done in absolutely every sector...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u311	Quiet, please. Quiet, please! Go on, Mr. Garcia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u312	...attributing the volume of these investments – I repeat – without any comparative analysis, and, yes, I hope that it will be done with some rigor more than as your president did and that it will not confuse the number of cows with the volume of liters of milk and that sort of thing, so as not to deceive people. So, finally, I give you all those figures that you're going to give, even though some sure as hell might be soft. I, Counsellor, today bring this initiative here to explain to us – or to explain above all to the sector, to tell you – the assessment that makes this government of something that has happened to this sector; a fact, Counsellor, unprecedented. You know how hard it is and what it costs in this country to put five or more people together, and I don't want to tell you whether those five or more are representatives of collectives; then, it's very complicated, not to say impossible, and still above all if these collectives are economically challenged, that is, if they have some economic interests and others have other economic interests, that in many cases they are opposed. Well, that's just getting it, Counselor, you; it's a record, it's a historical record, I think there's no precedent in that sense. Well, you got it, you got it all, absolutely everything from the forest sector, from the owners, the producers, the transformer sector, the financiers sector, the stock market, the industry, the big industry, the small industry, you've agreed that you've been having an erratic, inefficient forest policy for years, and beyond any sectoral and professional criteria. He told them publicly in November and on April 11, as it was collected in the media and in the communication itself that it was issued, they came to say: "Communicating and breaking the dialogue with the Union" – legally – "because of the lack of solutions for the sector". And I also define it very well: "They accuse the Executive of" – I also read textually from the note, I don't read the papers – "they pay constant attention, passivity and lack of solutions" – I also read textually and read in Spanish, because I was in Spanish." "The time has come for the indoctrination meetings of the Rural Media Council, which only uses the channels of dialogue to inform about the policy of fire extinction but not to develop active policies for the prevention or productive planning of the Galician mountain." Is that him, Counselor? How many times have we talked about this group and other groups of these things? How many times have we said it? How many times has everyone said it? How many times – and I'm sure it will be published again in some newspapers too – as with milk, will it be done without making any criticism but to expose the problem repeatedly, year after year and systematically, without any demands of any kind of responsibility? But we'll see that again. It is therefore not something – when we said this, when everyone was saying this, when now the sector itself, the whole sector, says this – that can happen I understand that I am unaware. Counsellor, when you're going to realize that you're the one who's going in the direction forbidden by the highway, that you're the one who's going in contradiction? Stop calling the police at once and tell them there's a lot of cars coming in the opposite direction. You're the one who's wrong. I know, you're now stoned to death with that phrase that you've always been, you're and you'll be, like this whole government, accompanying this sector and defending it where you need it, just like absolutely all the problems, with the rest of the sectors, with the practicality of all the sectors in this country you're affected by, but the case is that what you say you don't agree with the representatives, the rest of the industry representatives, which better than what they say is that in the best case you're not doing anything at all. In October 2014 – I repeat – the whole sector sends you a letter with different points, which then gives rise to a meeting with them, in which they outline and detail what are those problems that they consider to be unresolved, and in addition to their own writing they say that they are still known, that they are still analysed and that the Council is still aware of that. They're telling you about the PDR. Is it just how the PDR was developed – which we have said here too –?: they say they didn't count on them in that elaboration. We've also told you here, you've also told you all the rest of the association, sector, organization, cooperatives absolutely of all that tissue that should be the protagonist of this development of the RDP and they weren't. And besides he didn't count on them, he didn't pick up this PDR absolutely none of the demands or any of the commitments that had been acquired, in theory, with them. We are talking about the review of the Galician Forest Plan; that plan in which there was unanimity in Parliament many years ago, of what we should start to do in order to do the work and that you systematically, with your policies, beat year after year. We are talking about the forestry taxation of the association figures, Counsellor, of the sophor; we are asking you, as we have asked you here and as we have asked you in committee. So they're not astronauts, they're not talking about anything other than what we've always been talking about here: how many sophomores, after six years, have you working? Don't you think it's time, at least, to take a swing, if that's the right figure? It seems to you that it is, but I return to the highway; it seems to you alone, because what is clear is that these figures are not being put in place. They tell you about the different regulations that prevent the practice of any forest activity in many municipalities in Galicia; they tell you about forest health and the subject of nematode and they tell you about the touchstone, because this is where you have the problem, the problem – in addition to everything else – fundamental, and logically, of what doesn't come out. They tell you about your firefighting policy, and, of course, you don't give your account. And you, if you want to spend – and now you want to spend – because you already put it on the RDP as well; so you want to systematize what you've been doing in recent years – 16 million euros a year in city hall agreements, as I said here, to pay Mr Rueda his civil protection...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u313	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u314	...that he has no money, and 10 more to rent helicopters – and you say that, in fact, that is politics – logically, money has to be restricted in the other support measures to the sector. That's where you have the problem, that's where you really have the problem; the rest of you can fix it, too, but the rest of you can fix it; that's where it's hard to fix. That's why, Counsellor, first question: What sector do you plan to make politics with? If the whole sector is telling you something and you don't have a conversation right now with them or meetings with them, it's more, it publicly breaks relationships with you, with the advisor and with the Government, how will you do forest policy from now on? And secondly, did you plan to change some kind of policy or at least to reflect that as we say – we don't listen to the reds all these who are here – and all the associations in the sector that, in fact, their fire policy is erratic...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u315	Thank you very much, Mr. García.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u316	Is there any chance that you'll change it now that...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u317	Thank you very much, Mr. García. [[Mr. García García pronounces words that are not perceived.]] [[Applause]] The councilor of the Middle Rural and Sea, Mrs. Rosa Quintana Carballo, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u318	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr García, first of all, I would like to stress the commitment to support a sector, the forest, which has a social and economic dimension vital to rural life in Galicia, and we want to do so because we understand that this area of activity and the companies and professionals in the sector go far beyond and are above some of their representatives. We believe, in addition, that the figures that the Germans possess make him confident of the support we have given, we give and we will give while this government has the responsibility to carry forward its task, and this one will not stop for the interests of a few. That is why I also believe that all public representatives should have the same commitment and responsibility. I say this because I think this initiative is going back to the line you've got us used to: taking advantage of an old document to pick up a topical issue, completely leaving aside the issues that this plasma initiative and asking other questions that have nothing to do with the initials. And this, which seems to be a minor issue, if it is important when you are not properly accused of not answering your questions yet, and that cannot be considered since the seriousness this Parliament deserves and from whom it comes to the reasons for its government's work. But this will not distract us from our commitment, and that is why we always want to carry forward our support for the forest sector and a policy for the mountain that comes, given the figures, positive results. Besides, we don't know what part of the mountain support is negative, because we've always been beside the two branches of forest activity, the productive and the transformer and commercial, promoting more accurate and up-to-date regulation and bringing up to 170 million euros – nothing more or less than 28 billion of the old pesetas – since 2009. But all this forestry policy must have two premises: the ownership of the mountain and the need to diversify its uses; I say this because some seem to forget that 98% of the mountain is private and the existence of other different uses of wood production, which, without reaching the socio-economic volume, are important and above all very much future and potential. To take into account both assumptions that some seem to always forget, we keep in mind the opinions and the approaches that have been made since the Forest Council and the Madeira Bureau, where there are many more associations and entities linked to the mountain, which have manifested their inconformity and some seem to have forgotten. That's why I think we must roundly deny the criticisms, and above all one, that of none, and from the date of their initiative and until today we have held more than a dozen meetings and meetings with entities and associations linked to the mountain, and among them five, in which I was Confessor. But I think that, among all the issues that these criticisms can bring, there's a positive one: that you could discover the importance of the mountain beyond the fires. Therefore, welcome to the interest in the Greek mount. I also say this because they seem to forget that the mountain also existed in the period 2005-2009, if it seems that you know about your problems today. I say this because you are quoting questions, such as the processing of cutting permits or the existence of pests, when both matters existed before, without you taking any steps to advance your attention. In the case of cuts, we have to say that forest activity, like any other economic activity, is subject to sectoral rules of application and others that meet different territorial, environmental or social aspects – heritage, protection of landfills or aquifers, among other things –. Of these permits, only one, the one concerning the cut-off authorization, depends on the competence framework of the Rural and Sea Council. And it is worth noting that the Union works as a unique carrier, processing all the requests when it comes to the approval of the mountain management instrument, which simplifies the procedures. With regard to the problem of pests such as nematode, it is a pity that you discover it now and not in December, when you voted against raising 72% of the funds to combat pests and forest diseases for this year. But even knowing that all of this seems to arise now in your interest, I'm going to try to answer your questions, starting with the one that questions which are the reasons to avoid the political decisions made by the Council of Galicia the approaches they are making from the representative organizations of the forest sector. In this sense, I have to say that in the development of the most recent forestry standards – Galician Mountain Law, the Order of Uses and the Mountain Management and Management Decree – the Council has been in contact with the organizations of the sector, who have made several allegations and have finally all been taken into account. In relation to what measures will the Galician Union take to address the difficulties that industry professionals face in developing their activity normally, we must say that, within the framework of autonomous competences, we intend to work on redefining and improving those aspects of forest policy that have not already been achieved by the course of time or by changes in activity. To this end, we intend to continue to take into account the views of the sector, starting with the revision of the Galician Forest Plan, where a working group has already been formed to propose the guidelines for the revision of the new Forest Plan. In addition, regular meetings are held with representatives of the sectors concerned in order to analyse and improve the problems that arise in their professional activity and where the Council has an impact, such as the processing of forest management files or tree cutting authorisations, of which more than 100,000 are processed annually. And finally, in relation to which representative entities are in consultation with the Galician Council with regard to policies affecting the rural environment, it must be said that the organizations of the sector are represented in the Forest Council and in the Madeira Bureau, as set out in Articles 12 and 100 of the Mountain Law; and overall they bring 46 votes to both forums. In this sense, these vowels come from areas linked to the mountain in its production aspect, such as the woodworking industry, livestock, mycoholic exploitation or hunting; with the academic and also with the scientist, like universities, the schools of mountain engineers; or even with the social, like consumers and ecologist groups. For then, and as I say, in that forum, those who have to do with the mountain and their use and enjoyment are represented. And I think that justice should be taken into account your opinion and importance before portrayals that do not match. In addition – and before starting any criticism – I think we should finish by fincapé – for those who seem obvious – that in the Administration developing the different initiatives takes their time because it is necessary to carry out a series of procedures, and a series of safeguards and legal-administrative guarantees must be given to the administrators. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u319	Thank you very much. Intervention of parliamentary groups? Joint Group, Mrs. Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u320	Good afternoon to all and to all. Counselor, I don't know what the sector thinks, but if the support it lends to you is what you've been giving it to her in recent years, I'd say, don't you support me to sink, just let me act, because it's really in a bad and dramatic situation and it's still like this, and I understand that it takes time to change things, but it seems to privatize health, for example, it doesn't take so much time. When they want, time is rather elastic, it runs, and, when they're interested, it's very slow. And here I think there was a question of interest that went very slow, because having contacts and sitting with the organizations of the sector doesn't mean dialogue; dialogue requires an active listening and requires the intention of reaching agreements, which is not seen in the Council. So I'd ask you to really sit down and not just contact her. The discontent in the forest sector is palpable and it's not today, it's true, it's a discontent that has been coming for a long time, but, however, when we see the budgets of the Union, we see that it's not supporting the sector, as it normally does not support any of the important sectors for our country, beyond the propaganda itself. You simply use the budgets to issue more debt, which continues to accumulate and increase more debt; you owe to pay more debt, that's your policy. The forest sector is not alien to this reality and has already expressed it, to the point that most of the sector has come to announce the rupture of relations with the Rural Council. According to Professor Picos Martín, of the University of Vigo, in a study published in January this year on the forest sector, the branches of activity that integrate this productive complex are decreasing from the start of the crisis at an average rate of -7.9%, compared to -1.2% of the total economy. According to Professor Picos Martín, we are talking about a sector where the joint invoicing of the wood processing industry in Galicia exceeds 1,600 million euros annually. The wood sector in Galicia consists of 3,000 companies; 27% belong to the first transformation and 63% to the second transformation of wood. The main chain of wood transformation is – according to the IGE – in 2013 around 2% of the Greek economy, if we speak of added value; while, in terms of employment, this weight is 2.3% of the total, and of industrial employment, of 12.3%. Direct employment increases to 20,000 workers and indirect workers to 50,000; 6.6% of the working population in Galicia works in the sector. In addition, in 52 out of 315 Greek municipalities, the forest-based industry represents more than 30% of industrial establishments and more than 50% of industrial employment in interior municipalities such as Alfoz, Coles, Piñor, Pontevedra, Quintela de Leirado or Sarreaus. Next to the development of the rural economy, the sector contributes to the sustainability of some of the coastal municipalities through port activity. Wood trade and its products are mainly carried out by 11 of the 18 Greek ports. By autonomous communities, Galicia leads exports of wood products, overcoming Catalonia or Valencia. But if we analyze the exploitation data of the sector in the Spanish State you can see how Galicia is the community that leads the exports of wood, followed by Valencia. But if we look at and analyze the furniture exports, they are led by Catalonia and Valencia, the long distance from Galicia. We have talked about it more than once and we have claimed it in this Parliament more than once: that it is necessary to close the productive processes in our country because they really generate added value and quality employment. This data does not include the export of pasta, which would increase the export of Welsh, but always those commodities of raw materials with lower added value. And this despite the fact that 600,000 hectares have been unproductive in Galicia for 12 years. Galicia has just over two million hectares of forest surface, of which 70% produce wood, while 600,000 hectares are unproductive. As for the attention that Joina pays to the sector, it comes to say that from the scarce budget forecasts the degree of execution in productive investment on the mountain is at 40% of the forecast. And that's enough to know that we're talking about a sector of enormous economic relevance and employment, not to mention the environmental positive effects of rational exploitation of the mountain on the rural environment. The People's Party and the Union often say that they offer dialogue, but that the opposition refuses to dialogue, that the opposition only knows how to mount bronca, that the opposition doesn't want to dialogue and less reach agreements. But you look at where, the forest sector, the 3,000 companies that make up it, they don't know how to dialogue or agree to anything with the Union, because the sure fault will never be the Council or the Union. That's the model of the People's Party dialogue. We knew they were practicing it with the opposition, we knew they were doing it with the unions, too, but obviously they're doing it with everyone. It must be their way of dialogue: order, command and tide the partridge as long as we can; and, if possible, the tide of partridge reaches us to the elections, to see if we cast a vote by deceiving our voters. As for the interpellation, in general lines, it coincides with the authors' concerns. A government that has to know how to listen must be for something more than the propaganda and business of its members and of its party, which is what you are basically for; a government must meet reasonable claims from the social and economic sectors; a government has to facilitate things and not back up to do what it does. In this we agree with the authors of the inquiry, also with the need to reduce all possible bureaucratic obstacles; excessive obstacles and it is true that they are not from now on, they do not come from this government, but what one cannot refer to six years ago to justify that in six years nothing has been done, because surely – I am convinced – if others had been ruling over these six years, it would have been very early. But you hide behind the Bipartite and want to justify your inaction in three years and little more of the Bipartite's government and give no more of yourself, you can't keep taking that because the inheritance you are now enjoying is your own inheritance. I'm sure the carpenters are also right about the bureaucracy they have to endure to have a cut-off permit. It is not reasonable – as the interpellation says – that they have to process fifteen permits with their corresponding rates depending on the municipality. A quick solution to so many bureaucratic obstacles should be possible without diminishing the protection of the spaces or species to be protected, and ensuring that municipal roads are not harmed either. We'll see if this interrogation goes this way. I will agree with everything about changing policy against forest fires, too, in the sense of preventing and defending public service rather than promoting the private business of extinguishing fires. And how am I not going to agree that the Government's dialogue, listen to and agree with the sector, how should it be a general rule for any government that wants to be called that? So we are going to support the motion very likely because anything is better than the inaction of the Council and its contempt for such a fundamental sector that it is not supported. We believe it is essential to promote a responsible forestry that enables wood to be obtained in quantity and quality, supporting sustainable forest management and not just wood for ENCE; to enhance the joint management of forest property; to clarify, simplify and expedite administrative procedures relating to forest activity; and essentially to promote, and not with foreign capital – as it said this morning in the debate – but with Greek companies, which close production and that wood serves for something more than simply to export raw material, but also to start manufacturing quality furniture, furniture with design. That design and those professionals that you say we need...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u321	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u322	...this 4.0 industry that you haven't just seen in the forest sector and it's time for you to see it for the sake of our country and for the sake of our country. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u323	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. For the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs. Paz Franco.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u324	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Mrs. Middle Rural Counsellor, I was hoping that ever since the morning you would have had the enthusiasm with which Mr. Núñez Feijóo's words, both concerning the dairy sector and the dairy sector, as well as the good figures in the forest sector, would be applauded. But I see no, that didn't happen to him, but the fever seems to have increased – it's true that the fever always rises in the afternoon. I, if I may, in connection with this matter, wanted to start by begging you. Look, last night, at five o'clock in the afternoon, the Co-operative Cuva de Vales, which produces more than a million liters a day of milk, received a fax from Food Logistics telling you that from May 1 you won't be able to pick up milk, and you don't have anyone to pick up your milk. So I strongly ask you, as soon as you get out of here, to get in touch with that cooperative, to get in touch with the industries and look for a solution. And the same thing I'm saying to the three cooperatives, including Earth Tea, to which Celta Milk will also stop taking the milk from May 1st. Then go where Mr. Núñez Feijóo and tell him that the dairy sector is going like a shot. With regard to the forest sector – and we're going to talk specifically about wood production, we're not going to talk about other forest uses – you started by talking about commitment and support to the sector, and you said that the figures that represented the forest sector, of which Mr Feijóo also spoke this morning, were doing him credit for all that support, of all that commitment from the Government of Galician Union, to subsequently emphasize that, given the figures, the results are positive. I, let me tell you, that I am not leaving my stupor, because I have been looking at the results, data from IGE, INE and Confederare España and Confedera Galicia, and then, the data are the following, as regards the forest model we have: of all the wood produced in the Spanish State, Galicia produces 50% of wood in rolls, 8 % of furniture – that's already indicating what type of forest industry we have – and represents 13 % of the billing and employment, although we represent more than 50 % of the wood cuts that are made throughout the Spanish state – I believe that this is also defining more or less the type of productive orientation and model of wood production that we have in this country – and represents 10 % of the companies in the state, despite the fact that we cut – I insist – more than 50% of wood. That defines a model. But then there's some very curious data, Counselor. We're going to compare 2006 with 2011, because we're taking the first data in these statistical studies and the last one. The first transformation represented in 2006, of the total turnover of the wood sector in Galicia, 32 % – the first transformation – now represents 25%; and, the second transformation represented 68% and now represents 75 %; and the final billing came down almost at more than 600 million euros from now on. So I don't know how you can keep data positive. The invoicing of the first transformation in the last year of what there is definitive official data – which is 2013 – was 1,300 million euros; in 2007 it was nearly 1,700 million euros; but in the second transformation – and here there are many economists and they will surely understand why I insist so much on it – which is the one that generates added value and the one that generates employment and specifically refers to carpentry and furniture billing, the last known billing 2013 is 369 million euros; in 2006 it was 742; in 2007, 774; in 2008, 686; and in 2009, 535. And coming down, and so on, until 2013, the worst data in the whole historical series. So I don't know how you can make these statements, Counselor. Mr. President spoke in the morning that he represented 3% of the Greek economy. That was true at some point; today, of course, it is no longer so, it represents 2% of the economy, if we speak of added value. In terms of employment, it represents 2.3 %, which tells us that, if we develop this sector properly, it would have job creation potential, because it is indeed an intensive branch in job creation. But, of course, we have a forest sector here, as I said earlier and as evidenced by the data, clearly oriented towards a productive model that consists essentially – because that first transformation of what we were talking about basically refers to that – in shredding and paper pulp. The president of the board also said this morning an improper boldness of a president of the board – you applaud him excited, too – that we should say: that in Galicia we were producing paper. I'm hallucinating in colors! In Galicia we produced paper pulp, but there is only one company in Galicia, which is here in Santiago, and which has nothing to do with Ence, which produces paper, and then there are other, few, companies that turn into cardboard. But, look, to make it clear for sure, in the Galician Union's option, which is only for the paper folder, it became clear this morning by the mouth of the President of Galician Union that you have to put black on white what it represents in economic terms for this country. And it represents exactly the paper folder you lost -- not only telling what Ence represents, but also that transformer here in Compostela -- not more than 200 jobs from 2010 to 2012. Loss of ratio/value added gross/ output every year and, above all, decreases the capacity to give added value. That's the productive wager of the Galician Union in connection with its forest policy. However, Counsellor, which clearly shows that it has more capacity to generate jobs, as is the second transformation, you have completely abandoned it, to the point that from 2008 to 2012 more than 3,000 jobs have been lost in that sector of production. That, of course, draws an overview of forest model management in our country that leads us to the fact that a four-year-old sector actually represented 3% of our domestic product and which represented one of the largest sectors within the industry with a capacity to generate jobs is becoming increasingly insignificant. You, Counselor, are still wrong about the same politics. Look, it's not just that we tell you since the opposition, it's not just that you tell them Confessor, it's not just that they tell them studies of people who know as much about the forest sector as Juan Picos – that, by the way, I can match him in a lot of things, but many others of course not – that they're systematically telling them, based on rigorous studies, that you're absolutely wrong in politics and that the sector goes at least, and you persist in these policies. Look, you're being blamed for all areas in the sector that haven't been able to do anything about forest micro-exploitations...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u325	It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u326	...that we have in this country. You have dismantled the uxfor and, in four years – which I say, in five years practically – have not been able to create a single forest-building society. You have not been able to increase the forest certification of our mountains to believe the quality and conditions in which this wood is produced. You continue to persist in a forest model that leaves the wood producers only to the mercy of the monopoly of Ence, and it has been seen in recent months as a function of the interests of both the pastry farmers and others, lowered the price that the producers received to the point of even threatening to stop selling wood. You, Counselor, should be made to look at your forest policy, not because the Galician Nationalist Block tells you so, but because...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u327	Thank you very much, Mrs. Paz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u328	I gave you all the data in the sector. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u329	Thank you very much. Parliamentary Group of the Left Galician Alternative. You have the word of Mr. Antón Sánchez García.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u330	The beginning so unannounced at 4:30 this afternoon session reminded me of an intervention by a well-known Tertullian, speaking of an intervention in the afternoon of the Galician Parliament, who said, "It is necessary to choose between the departure day and the Marques de Cáceres; both things cannot be." Well, this, too... yeah, yeah, I say it for everyone. "What it stings, garlic eats." [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] It was for everyone, man! [[Laughter]] It was a joke, don't take offense, that nothing happens... I'm also late sometimes, there's no problem: dawn, Marques de Cáceres... I literally reproduced the words of that well-known Tertullian. If you take offense at that band and don't take offense at it, I don't know why it will be... you have to put control out of this House. [[Applause]] Well, Counselor, you said it took a long time to develop politics. Since 1992, when the Greek Forest Plan is approved, do you consider it sufficient time to develop any of the issues set out in the Galician Forest Plan? Because since the year 1992, as I know, he has only ruled a different government than the People's Party three and a half years. It's 23 years old. Twenty years have you been able to develop the Galician Forest Plan and will begin to modify the Galician Forest Plan, to make a new one, without fulfilling the previous one. If you want, I'll read you parts of the Galician Forest Plan so you can see what I was saying and what you didn't do. There was also a saying of the year 1987 that spoke of climate diversity, physiographic and edifice. "His geographic position makes it originally in Galicia a great ecological diversity in which the mix and cross-sectional character of floral domains are the most genuine natural conditions, so any attempt to vary the almost monospecific character of the forest cover currently produced by forest policy carried out until today must walk in the same sense as the trends of adaptation of vegetation to the habitat frame that can be defined in the natural space of Galicia. Therefore, policies must be geared towards taking advantage of this biodiversity within the empowerment of long-term quality species. This is not the model to which you walked afterwards." He was also talking about county advisory services. He was talking about progressively reducing firefighting costs and increasing prevention costs. He was also talking about increasing the surface and quality of expired species. He also spoke of the property structure, which was in 1992 – and it is still today – a handicap to develop crops and to make production profitable. He was talking about a series of challenges that are not overcome today – and it's been twenty-three years. The challenge of developing a quality model that had generated added value, as we said here – the data I am not going to repeat – is more than obvious, that data cannot be denied. It cannot be denied that with that data what we have is a model of low value added wood production, which creates little employment, although, of course, in a country with two million hectares of the three million people that have that country, it has a number, in absolute terms of jobs, high. But compared to the surface we have, it's not a job generator. Neither did the overcoming of challenges such as the structure of the property. That's where you're never self-criticizing. You complain about the criticism of the opposition, but you don't do this self-criticism or this. Come up here and tell me what this country has been up to in the improvement of the structure of the property of the hills of Galicia. Make a balance of what I assumed was the approval of the People's Party's Sulphur. How many sophomores are constituted six years after the arrival of the Government? How many, two? How many acres? How much per cent of the forest surface has some kind of structure similar to the sulphur? Why not make a self-critical balance to find solutions to this problem? Or can you come here and say that you are fully satisfied with the evolution of the property structure of Mount Galicia? Then, turn it off and let's go. Is this a critique? But they were telling him before! If it's not us, it's the boss of the wood, the confectioner, who said it, but like this: disloyality, cowardice, disability, neglect... We don't say it, but they do. You're not a minimum of self-criticism. They've only made short-term policies, and not only have they moved in the right direction, but they've gone back, and they assume the monoculture model for paper pulp, they assume as if it were an advanced, modern model... It's not. The challenge of increasing the area of cultivation is no longer the challenge of this country; what needs to be improved is the quality of wood, diversification, conservation of biodiversity, conservation of water resources under good conditions, etc. Have they increased, Counselor, the expiring species? Did you get the challenge of having better quality in the plantations of expiring species? No, if not, come here and disown me. Has that challenge been met by spending less and less on fire-extinguishing and progressively replacing management and prevention policies? We don't think so. And not only that, is that economist, I think it was, who cited it also talked about that at least they needed to have clear and disaggregated the data to know exactly what it was spending on extinguishing fires and what it was on preventing. They didn't have them, he said. I know you're an expert. You also spoke, to show the effort of this government to the forest sector, of 170 million euros since 2009. How much does that sound to you? Do you think it's a lot of 170 million euros in 2 million hectares? Do I know how much? 80 euros per hectare. Man!, what was enough was the 17,000 euros per hectare cleared out of the municipal quadrilles, which were the ones that came out if you checked out. Among the 20 million euros spent on the municipal squares and the surface they cleared was 17,000 euros a hectare, which is indeed room scrap. But 170 million euros of money coming from Europe in 2 million hectares isn't much effort, is it? It's not much effort, we're asking for something else. You didn't develop the Forest Plan in the development of the forest districts, which was also a central element of the Galician Forest Plan. Because, of course, for any policy of improving the structure of the property, of improving the quality of the wood, it is necessary to have in each region, in every place, personal dynamizer, local knowledge, knowledge of the people, with confidence in the owners, in order to be able to carry forward the sulphur, the uxfor or any forest policy. They didn't either. Forest districts are not fulfilling that function. Man, you tell me that 98% of the mountain is private! And it turns out that now the Galician Union only makes policies for the public? And then general plans don't order what's private? And that I don't understand that argument that, because it's private, the Galician Union can't do better management and training policy. I don't understand; if you can, explain to me later, when you get up here, that's private. But, look, there are communities of neighboring mountains in common...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u331	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u332	...that they are neither private nor public, but that they could manage large surfaces of land and they don't have that handicap to have the split surface. And then you also failed. In their relationship with the communities of neighboring mountains in common, they did not come to have any harmonic policies, without conflicts, and which meant a development of these communities of neighboring mountains in common. They're still having problems. So, in the face of these unsurpassed challenges, all we ask is a little bit of self-criticism, if they want to change the situation. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u333	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. Popular Group, Mr. Balsairo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u334	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen. Madam Counsellor, in fact, in the People's Group we can agree on a number of aspects that we hear here, especially in the aspects that you have exposed and in Galicia, the green Galicia, the forest sector is a strategic sector from an economic point of view and also from a labour point of view, but above all because of the role that mountains and logging have for our rural communities. And, therefore, Counselor – as you have said – we have an obligation to promote the generation of wealth from our mountains. And this is more than indispensable in a country where we count on a forest surface that exceeds 2 million hectares and where there are at least 672,000 forest owners among the 3 million Greeks, according to the estimate. But it is also true that, despite the catastrophic vision that some have drawn in their speeches in the rostrum of this Parliament, to which we have already been accustomed, nobody like this government has done so much to revitalize the forest sector. It is true, Counselor, that opposition groups are very much given to talking about pending subjects and proposing few or no alternative models, but it is true that reality is quite different, and we see it reviewing what was said here in this gallery. As you know, here's an erratic policy, an inefficient policy, and that you were on the road in the opposite direction or in the forbidden direction. But it's true that you're still on the highway, because between 2005 and 2009 it wasn't kept in the corridors; even in the corridors they kept talking about the forest sector. And they criticized here, in addition, the forest model of the People's Party... I know they like speech, I'm very glad that they like it, so they applaud. [[Applause]] It's only bad that there's some more to applaud the Galician Nationalist Block, because when you intervened, Mrs. Paz, you didn't even have a group that applauded you. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] They criticise the forest model of the People's Party and say that the mountain must be ordered, but it had to arrive a popular government to be approved, Counsellor, in Galicia the first Law of the Mountains of Galicia, specifically in 2012. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] They were talking about promoting a more sustainable use of the mountains, but it also had to be a government, this People's Party government, and not another, which approved the 2014 Forest Management and Management Decree. And now they say they're worried, Counsellor, about agitating proceedings and local orders, but it was this government too and not another government that introduced rules with administrative facilities and with commercial, economic and fiscal benefits for its owners. And they criticize over and over again – which is a canteen we're already used to, which we already know from memory – the work of the professionals on the device counterfires; but it has resulted in the best figures in the historical series in decades as to the number of fires and burnt surfaces. [[Murmurs.]] I know you don't like this. But let's go!, Counsellor, that the conclusion is very simple: that criticisms are not supported and that they draw an image of our mountains which does not correspond to Galicia's reality. And of course, yes, of course, like not, that there will be things that we may be able to improve; in fact, there are things that are getting better. Of course you do, why not? We have not eluded the debate, ladies and gentlemen, which can even be healthy and can even be positive, if the debate has been formulated constructively, to which you have little custom. But, attention, uh, this group and this government want to talk about the future; we want to talk about the future. They don't ask us to go back to the past. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I know Mrs. Paz told us about the year 2006. We don't want to go back, in forest policy or fire policy, to the year 2006. We don't want to go back to when there was no Mountain Law, we don't want to go back to when there were no modern regulations to order the forest masses – which now there is – we don't want to go back to when the good practices were not published in the Dog at the forest level and we don't want to go back to when Galicia was burning from the point-to-point point-to-point with a government overpassed to what bothered him – that bothered him – to put out the army's fire. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And, opposition gentlemen, and, Mr. Garcia... Home!, at least, you should have – at least, at least – the same respect we had when you went up to the gallery, because I can tell you that I didn't like what you said either, nor do I usually like what you say, but at least I know how to listen, and to understand them, and you too to understand, the first thing you have to do is listen, because if you don't, at the end, you won't understand. [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]] Mr. Garcia, I think the Counsellor was particularly brilliant in her intervention. I say it was brilliant because you talked about everything... I say it was very brilliant because to understand you the exposure of your inquiry in the gallery of Parliament... which was very brilliant in your intervention. [[Laughter]] And we cannot make a personal problem, Mr. Garcia, and we cannot assimilate a particular criticism – which we welcome, Mr. García, with all due respect – with an amendment to the entire forest policy of this government. Look, you in all the speech were unable to provide data that supported for nothing the criticisms you make in the interpellation, which are much more than what you did in the gallery; because you spoke much more about the milk sector – you see what the forest sector, Counsellor, is interested in – than you spoke about the forest sector. And of course, the Union... No, you also talked about the milk sector. [[Murmurs.]] No, no, it was Mrs. Peace and you. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And you referred to the president of the board, who in the morning had answered about the dairy sector. If you don't know what you're talking about in Parliament's gallery, it'll be a problem for you. Home! at least you are quite fragile in memory, because very little has gone up to Parliament's gallery and talked about the dairy sector. Now, if you haven't found out, then I'm starting to worry more. And of course, Junta has a forest model, of course, yes, as you're not going to have a forest model? Of course we have progress. Does it seem to you that the development of the Mountain Law, which is perhaps the most ambitious project in recent decades, is not a step forward? Don't you think that's a step forward? That, in addition, ensures a diverse and sustainable use of our mountains. Don't you think it's an advance? In addition, the rules themselves already provide for administrative facilities and commercial tax benefits for owners. Isn't that a step forward for you or a step forward for the Socialist Group? Even, as you know, Junta is pushing for the new Forest Plan, which seems to be the only opposition groups who haven't found out, those who haven't noticed, that the plan is under review. Of course we have to adapt it, and how will we not have to adapt it? How won't you have to adapt it after twenty years? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] It needs to be adapted to reality. I'd just miss it! And what better way to do it, within the framework of the Forest Council, than to plan the future than in agreement with all professionals – and I say to everyone, not only with the part that interests the Socialist Party or with the part that interests the opposition alone and exclusively; I say to everyone –? Counsellor, follow this path because whoever spoke to you had the honor – it is an honour to be a Member of Parliament in Galicia; it is an honour, and to be a Member of Parliament more than a legislature because it is also an honour – to be a Member during the years 2005 to 2009, when Galicia cried and did not know what to do in forest policy and fire policy. [[Murmurs.]] And the same ones who went up to the gallery of this Parliament in some groups...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u335	It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u336	...to defend that policy – which burned Galicia by one end and by the other – remain the spokesmen of these groups. As you will understand, do everything, Counselor, whatever it may be so that it will not happen again. I know that as long as this government is and as long as you're in front of that council, that won't happen again. I know, I'm sure. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u337	Thank you very much, Mr. Balsairo. Mr. García García's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u338	Thank you, President. Mr. Sánchez, I really didn't understand the initial comment you made so far, with this last intervention; I didn't understand what you were referring to. [[Laughter]] Counselor, you didn't let me down, actually, you followed the script, we'll get to know each other. I was saying that I was going to give the global figure, that I was going to put all the figures out of what I had invested, and I was going to say that the sector was still very important, and that's all I've said I'd take it off. And it didn't surprise me either in the second part, I just didn't want to put it forward, which is, just like they do in the milk and in all sectors – I'm talking about the milk. No, no, the problem is that the representatives of the sector are not worth it, the problem is the representatives. My initiative is clear. I didn't come here to discuss forest policy on this occasion, I've already come and I've shown it; and we've had many occasions where we've manifested our position with regard to forest policy. It's more, we'll make a motion later next week, where we'll explain, if possible, our forest policy. What we were dealing with today was simple, was that the forest sector tells you it's hurting it. There's a letter and a letter, where there are absolutely all the associations in the forest sector, all of them, that tell you they're doing it wrong, all of them. Afterwards there was a meeting with them, where they are all, all of them on the Forest Council, and they told him they were hurting him. After it happened? He says: You take advantage of an old initiative... Man, what happened from my initiative to now? Here it is collected: "The masonry break with the Union in the face of the lack of solutions in the sector." "The woodworkers break dialogue with the Union because of their lack of solutions to drive the sector." This is what happened from my initiative to this day, and since that, there are no meetings, Counselor, there are no meetings. You can't call the meeting I'm sending out to the secretary general where some industry to see why he said I don't know what. And, if you like, we're deep in who each one is inside the associations. And, if you want, we're deep in what sector he said he didn't agree with that and why, and the consequences we'll have, and we'll analyze it here later, because here we all know each other absolutely, as you well know. Therefore, Counsellor, the spirit of this intervention was that, and do not explain here – for Mr. Balsairo's disappointment – what our forestry policy is because we have done so many times. It was a fact I think unprecedented that, once again, the whole sector tells you it's wrong and you don't even take note. And they're telling you to pay attention! the wood industry, all except a small part of a section, of a province, that is actually hurting you, and that is doing it mostly in two or three things, apart from all these, that then we'll talk about if we're running out of time. I see it so clearly. And about that he didn't answer. Counsellor, you're being questioned about your fire prevention policy with regard to spending on municipal brigades, which is at the expense of investments in plantations and in the care of our mountains. More wing than Mr. Balsairo said, and that I have already manifested here, of the regulation. Look, Counselor, regulation. These are the municipalities that still have municipal ordinances today. Mr. Balsairo, what has established his mountain law. After the Mountain Law, this is still the map, Counselor. After the Mountain Law, Mr. Balsairo, this is the map. What did he do? Moreover, there are municipalities that are still processing it. So what are you talking about, Counselor?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u339	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u340	What are you talking about? I want to circumscribe this initiative in this area. The whole sector tells him you're having an erratic policy. Is there any possibility – not because I tell you, that I give you a discount – that you think about and change your course? Don't you? Let's go back to the previous one. It's all the cars coming in front of the bad guys, are you the good guys? You and Mr. Balsairo. Or what are they? Are they red? The wood industry, which, as we all know each other, we all know where they are, who they are, who they are, names, surnames, affiliation of the political party, say that you are doing it disastrously wrong, and what are they, the Socialist Party, or the AGE, or the BNG? Do they want to campaign against you? What's the reason? It's just that he's really doing it wrong. And you didn't disassemble or counteract any of the arguments they say you're doing it wrong. That's the problem.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u341	Thank you very much, Mr. García.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u342	Not so much that you're doing it wrong...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u343	Thank you very much. Time's up. [[Applause]] Mrs. Middle Rural and Sea Counsellor has the floor to close the debate, Mrs. Rosa Quintana.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u344	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Garcia, I don't think at any time I said that I didn't accept criticism and I don't accept that I have a wrong policy. No, I don't come here to do theatre, I come here to say what I'm doing and to admit mistakes, I don't have much trouble recognising when I'm wrong, and, if so, if so, I say it and I keep going, because I think the only thing that's not wrong is what doesn't do anything. But look, I'll tell you something. The forest plan, when it was done, the big problem I had at that time for writing was the problem of fires. It seems that today the problem of fires is not so much what it has to do with forest policy, and in that sense, although the Forest Plan is in force, as you well know, until 2032, I had no problem in gathering the Forest Council on 2 December 2013 and telling the Forest Council, and all those who are part of this forest council, that we could address the review of the Forest Plan, which was the idea that all of them have to make a new forest plan and that I would take on what came out of that forest council and bring it to Parliament and to the Council of Galicia in order to achieve a forest plan that was the Galician Forest Plan, which had been agreed among all the actors in the sector and all the political representatives. I proposed to create those working groups, and I had to propose again in 2014. And in November 2014 I took back to the Forest Council, which please proposed to me the working groups to create this new review, which is what they want to do with the Forest Plan. And there they are working. What I am not able to understand, honestly, is that after presenting the possibility of making a new Forest Plan, what model we want for Galicia, you tell us, who are the representatives, when the working groups start working, suddenly some representative of the sector says in the media, without more or less, that they break relationships with the Union. They were asked in writing to confirm that they broke their relationship with the Union and that they stopped being part of the working groups, and they haven't answered yet. Now, of course, you come here at the base of a press headline who comes out one day by a representative of the sector. The next day, other representatives of the sector go out saying other things, and that's out of the question, because Junta is the one who's wrong. I may be wrong, of course! And of course we can have a wrong forest policy, it could be! But look, the data says something else. Data say that among the last two forest inventories, the number of feet increased by 30%; the volume of cortex by 45%; the masses of leafy trees increased by 42%; and 41% in cortex volume. In the last two national forest inventories the forest mass increased by 33%, and the forest mass of the natives by 55%. So I don't mean to say that we're right, I'm giving the data and the increase that's been produced. And when I say the investments that have been made on the mountain, Mr. Sánchez, were 172 million euros, 28 billion pesetas, at one time – which is falling – where 98% of the property is private, where investments also have to be made by the owners of those plots that we have in our mountains. But more importantly, I have to say that there was a very special effort here, because in order to give the aid to the pemes companies, to the timber companies, we had to put free own funds, because in the operational programme that was in force, we couldn't help with the European Union's structural funds, and then we had to put our own funds free at a time of economic weakness. I will not escape, if I had much more money, surely we would have invested much more, of course!, that I would not take them to my house. But look, I think what you can't come here is to mix reality, mix locks, mix things, and what I have to say is that, of course, we will continue to bet on the development of the forest sector, to put into value all the values of our mountain, not only wood, but all that can be produced in its mountain. On that line we're going to continue working with all the representatives of the sector, who want to be part of the working groups. Obviously, I'm not going to force anyone to be anywhere I don't want to be. I've never done it and I'll never do it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u345	Thank you very much, Counselor. Da María Teresca Da Paz Franco and D. Francisco Jesús Jorquera Caselas, from G.P. of the Galician Nationalist Block on the Taxation of Pensions of Returned Emigrants
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u346	You have the word of Mrs. Paz to formulate her interpellation
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u347	Thank you, Madam President. Counselor, don't forget that little one of the millions and so many liters of milk that they're going to stop collecting last morning. Or else, let Mr. Núñez Feijóo fix it, which is so good with the dairy sector. Good afternoon, Counselor. Let's talk again about the situation of return emigrants in relation to the taxation of their pensions. It is indeed a matter which has already been addressed in this plenary on different occasions, from different aspects and depending on the evolution that has taken place in this matter. We began by denouncing a persecution from which migrants and return emigrants were being subjected in connection with taxation for pensions received in foreign countries, who were being treated as tax offenders, not like Mr. Mouse and not like the People's Party, which may have box B and it turns out that this is not a crime. I'm a little stupid lately. We continue to demand the relevant legal amendment to end this unfair treatment, not only because they were treated as fiscal offenders, but also because they had their pensions. And all this was also motivating him to move, even if it was very minimal, the position of the People's Party and the position of the Government of Spain. As I say, we began with statements by Members of this Parliament, the Government and the Government of the State, reaffirming in their position that they were tax frauds and that therefore they had to apply the full weight of the law to them. We have followed that, finally, the pressure that almost two years ago came about by hundreds, thousands of older people, in many ill cases and with many difficulties, through their mobilisations, in August 2014 Mr. Montoro had to announce that, within that package called fiscal reform that he had referred to the Congress of Deputies, there was also a reform in relation to the pension of returned emigrants. To begin with, on behalf of the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, which is called Law 35/2006 reform, which affects the taxation of returned migrants, which has been done with the approval of Law 26/2014, is at least pretentious. I believe that, at the very most, the performance of that prestige of tax policy called Mr. Montoro can be called monumental carpet. And I'm going to explain why we're in front of a monumental carpet. I think there was a miscalculation on the part of the People's Party and the Government of the State, because they thought that the Greeks and the Greeks would leave us...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u348	Please be quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u349	...seduce because they announced that, during the six months prior to the municipal elections, some amounts would be returned, of course not everything they would have to return, to returned migrants. And what they did with that attempt to buy mobilizations, to buy platforms, to buy returned emigrants, was to create even greater chaos and a genuine billiard from the point of view of law. What was specifically approved in Law 26/2014, in its unique additional provision, was what they call a regularization of tax debts. The Mouse also was regularization, now it's a fiscal amnesty. But well, this isn't an amnesty tax because they have to pay the same price. A regularization consisting of the following: between January 1, 2015 and June 30 2015, returned migrants who after 2008, and as a result of the requirements of the Tax Agency, had to pay not only the taxes corresponding to those exercises, but the interest, penalties and charges imposed by the Tax Agency, they could request the refund of the money paid in those three concepts. Those who haven't done that regularization yet, would have that same deadline, that same six months, to make the supplementary declarations in their case – or not complementary, if they haven't done them at any time – corresponding to the exercises that are not yet prescribed; that is, since the exercise of the IRPF of the year 2010. What the Government of the State has not done – despite the fact that since the first time, before the adoption of this legislative framework by the Congress of Members, through initiatives in this Parliament in plenary and in the Commission, of questions, impulse initiatives, which sometimes we are already monothematic, as well as by the presentation of amendments in the Congress of Members by our parliamentary group – was to make this, instead of being a propaganda and absolutely shocking standard, a rule that would clarify the different aspects that have to do with the taxation of returned migrants and that today are still generating huge problems. To begin with, the situation of people who have a disability, a disability, recognized in the country of origin, which here would be equivalent to an absolute disability, does not have that recognition and therefore cannot exercise the right that the law recognizes all citizens of this country to which, if you have an absolute disability pension, you do not have to pay. And those people still have to be taxed, and they're subject to this regime that in six months, or they do that regularization, or from June 1st they become tax evasions again and therefore they become persecuted again by the Tax Agency. There are other situations that also have numerous – more and more – judicial judgments of all kinds of courts, including the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia, some very recent. And I think that the members of that court, as they're fed up with that despite the reiterating of their legal arguments, the tax administration continues without understanding, they've already put it in an unusual language for the judicial resolution, that is, something that understands anyone. They have come to put almost literally: look, gentlemen of the Tax Agency, when the agreement of the Spanish State with Germany, in its Article 19, says that public pensions do not tax in the Spanish State, public refers to all those who, regardless of who is the intermediary who satisfies the payment of that pension, provide public resources. In other words, this affects – in view of which is Germany’s pension system – practically all returned migrants. And not the interpretation by the Tax Agency that public pensions are only those of the people who had a public job; that is, they were officials or worked for a public body or agency. That is what the High Court of Justice expressly says. So, by virtue of those judgments, what the Tax Agency had to do was give them back, too, on their own initiative, to all those people who have already paid for that money, the money they paid improperly and of course leave them alone and don't continue to torture them that they have to keep making the income statements and keep paying those taxes. Because if not, the only alternative for these people is to have to fight against the Tax Administration. There are other unique situations that have to do with which – I assure you, Counselor – depending...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u350	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u351	...from which office of the Tax Agency you are going to ask or try to make the statement of income, with the same situation, the information that is moved in relation to which you can be deducted, with what kind of expenses, for example, you are discounted in Holland in relation to pension funds or health coverage, etc., if you can or will not deduce here, there are tax management offices that say that none and offices of the Tax Agency that say that everyone, therefore, this creates a genuine defence for returned migrants. We, Counsellor, what we ask you – which is the first time I can debate with you on this matter – are taking this situation seriously because there are thousands of Greeks and Greeks affected by this, people, besides, with few resources of all kinds to understand, to be able to understand, and to be able to deal with this situation with the Tax Agency, and therefore it must be you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u352	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u353	...who supplant those inefficiencies.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u354	Thank you very much, Mrs. Paz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u355	Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u356	Mr. Valeriano Martínez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u357	Thank you very much, Madam President. Once again – and as I also transmitted in the previous Plenary – I want to show my support and that of the Greek Government to the whole group of returned migrants. With regard to IRPF, as you know, the Law on the Financing of Autonomous Communities assigns the title of the regulatory competences of management, settlement, collection, inspection and review to the State, without any delegation to the Welsh Tax Administration, and establishes for Galicia the partial transfer of this income tax of physical persons produced in our autonomous community. IRPF is a tax that taxes the income of natural persons and includes all the returns that the taxpayer receives, regardless of where they live or have produced. Even so, in this case we must take into account the agreements signed with different states in order to avoid double international taxation which lay down the rules for taxation of certain incomes, including pensions. So, within the problem of the pensions of returned migrants, we find ourselves with a unique group that are the returned migrants from Germany, which have specific characteristics because of the existence of a 1967 Hispanic-German agreement to avoid double taxation and which was in force until 2012. On the pensions of returned emigrants in Germany, the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia ruled on several occasions, diminating the exemption from taxing the pensions they received from Germany until 2013. They are judgments affecting a particular group of returnees – only those in Germany, not the whole – and they affect only pensions received before 2013, because in that year the double taxation agreement with Germany has been amended. I have to clarify that the judgments of the High Court of Justice of Galicia do not create jurisprudence, as if they do, for example, the judgments of the Supreme Court, so the State Agency of Tax Administration does not have to comply with them; that is, it is not obliged to follow the criteria of the high court of Greece, it is only obliged to comply with the binding consultations of the Directorate-General of Taxation of the Ministry of Finance and Public Administration. Thus, the State carries out the tax settlement taking into account the consultations of the Directorate-General for Taxation, as stated above, of the Ministry of Finance, which in this case runs counter to the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia. The Board, from the very first moment, has said that it shares the criteria of the judgments of the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia. The German Government has on several occasions shown its position in favour of the State Tax Agency taking into account the judgments in the practice of liquidations corresponding to the exercises prior to 2013. I mean, that exemption from taxing all the returnees in Germany who are in the same situation, regardless of whether it's a public or private pension. From the analysis of the judgments of the Supreme Court of Justice in Galicia, it is indeed stated that pensions received in Germany, with the agreement in force before 2012, do not pay. This Government fully shares the argument raised by the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia, and believes that the lack of clarity in the German convention fully justifies the non-taxation of these pensions. And so we have stated, claiming the need for the State Tax Agency to change its approach and follow the doctrine of our High Court of Justice, so that the Board transferred to the State, through a letter on 4 March 2014, which, as far as possible, the Tax Administration had made its position of the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia. In this letter, we asked the State specifically, in relation to those affected by the German Convention in force before 2013, the following questions: that the taxpayer was not sanctioned for having been found in a reasonable interpretation of the rule; and that the position maintained by our High Court of Justice should be adopted, so that the sanctions imposed were revoked, that new liquidations derived from the application of this agreement were not practised, and that the amounts settled and entered by the taxpayers by this concept should be returned. But, Your Honor, this is the German agreement in force before 2012 and it affects pensions received by returned migrants in this situation, not all returned migrants. As you well know – and so did you in part in your intervention – the Board worked for this whole collective, taking into account the demands of immigrants who received their pension from countries with agreements to avoid double international taxation subscribed by Spain, but also those who received them from other countries. Let us not forget that part of these migrants had fulfilled their tax obligations, and what was achieved with the regularization period opened last January was to put in the same situation the returned migrants who had already fulfilled their obligations, according to the State Tax Agency – 68% in particular in 2008 – and those who, still without deliberation, have not done so. The Board also showed its willingness to collaborate with the State Tax Agency to facilitate this collective's compliance with its tax obligations. Thus, in compliance with the commitment made to this Parliament, since last December, on the website of the State Tax Agency, there is a specific link in which those affected can obtain the petition for forgiveness. All returned migrants involved in this process can request, from the first of January, the refund of the amounts paid in respect of fines, interests and charges. Furthermore, the Galician Union, through its tax agency, has assigned specific staff to its five delegations and central services in Santiago for the submission of requests for information. The Galicia Tax Agency, in addition, has enabled an information telephone to address all returned ones with doubts about the process they must follow, and on its website it has specific information for this collective. Also at the end of January, Galician Union signed a protocol for collaboration with the State Tax Agency. Within the framework of this agreement, the Board comes to 26 employees of our Tax Agency, with an estimated cost of €300,000, of a total of 40 workers for the State Tax Agency in Galicia to help this collective. I can tell you that the number of contributors attended so far in the Foreign Pension Service 2010-2013, in the Galician delegation, is 7,336, of which 4,408 were attended by staff of the state agency and 2,928 by staff of the Galician Tax Agency. All these data and measures, Your Honor, come to corroborate our always active commitment to this collective. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u358	Thank you, Counselor. Action by the parliamentary groups to set positions. [[Pause.]] Joint Group. Mrs. Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u359	Good afternoon to all and to all. Good afternoon, Counselor. The truth is, I don't know if I can drink some water because you just got me excited. How sensitive! It's just that, really, if I miss the tears of this government's commitment to returned migrants, how they value the problem I have posed, and the uprooting of emigration, for all those people, today old people, who are, of course, advancing death to their policies because they do nothing but go away with disgust. It seems a lie to the lack of sensitivity to a collective who has experienced very harsh situations in countries where they didn't know the language, working in jobs they didn't want anyone and going through real misery to send some peseta here; pesetas used by the Spanish State to survive. And you pay them is to give them a bitter old age, suck them and suck them up to the last hard part of their miseries pensions. It's the support they expect from you, it's the support they've given them. And come here and tell us that the fines will be returned to them. After judgements, fights, you had to wait. And he's still here saying they're not obliged to comply with the judgments. But please, it sounds like a threat, or a gift. If we wanted to... we can continue... I wonder where their humanity remains, their commitment to the people, their commitment to those people who helped to lift this country in very difficult times, who come back here and the only one who finds them are Government beatings instead of support to have, at least, since they didn't have a youth or a maturity, in their country, quiet, enjoying their family and their surroundings, at last they could enjoy an old age, but that won't allow you. You're the only one who does it is a real cop of these people who had to emigrate in very harsh conditions, abandoning families and affections, and making a lot of work the money they planned to save for a quiet old age. The People's Party looked elsewhere until he had no choice but to take some attitude to the rulings that were building up. It's a good thing I'm talking about Germany. It's not a matter of countries, it's a matter of rights. It's a matter of the Spanish State's own right and it's a matter of the Spanish State and the Spanish Government's own sensitivity. However, it's clear that now if he's going to act, and he's going to act in a very fair way. It will be treated as all the corrupt immigrants on the Falciani list, for example, by allowing them, like those of the fiscal amnesty, to make a supplementary statement. Returned emigrants treat themselves like corrupt ones; and you also boast that this is a great democratic advance, that you surrender and treat migrants in a very good way. We're in the election year, and therefore you couldn't go on in such a situation, with these unfair situations; unfair sanctions that, in addition, are totally rejected by the courts, which, in addition to, they carry the administration's back because there is real abuse – and you know – in this theft that makes return emigrants. So they now open up a regularization period, because what you understand, and the law they best practice, is the law of the funnel: the wide part for me and the narrow part for you. The broad part for the great fortunes, for the great inheritances, for the abusive taxes, and the funnel, the narrow part, for all others: for the people, for the workers, for the pensioners, for the peasants and the peasants. And it is done by the state farm with taxes, by bleeding those who live from their work, the working people, self-employed and pemmes, and amnesty of tax offenders in exchange for 10 per cent, or simply looking elsewhere as with the Falcian list. This is the labelling and justice of the People's Party, Mr. Núñez Feijóo and Mr. Rajoy. In the People's Party when they can, which has often been, they don't even pay the VAT. They pay the reform of the headquarters in black, they pay in black most of the election campaigns; that is, it's disgusting. And it's more disgusting when they come here to claim the others who pay their taxes. It's just that you have to have a value...! Really, you must have a monumental value! Don't pay taxes, pay the money base, pay the campaigns in black money, and come here to forgive the return emigrants. Indeed, that sometimes comes to parliamentary courtesy, because if not, we could say here a few things about their performance. Because it's true you can't say a lot of things here. I've defined how the People's Party works, but I can't say it here. What I do know is that she's ominous, the law of silence, if they're done with it. There's no more silence. They are increasingly voices, both from the judiciary and from society, which denounce their lack of morals and ethics in the government of this country. You have to be very bad and have very little social empathy to treat how return emigrants treat. You have to be bad and you have a great pursuit of collection, an unlimited urge against the workers. The Spanish-German Convention of 5 December 1966, when referring to public pensions, says that they are pensions and remuneration paid by or from the funds of the contracting State, a land or one of the autonomous bodies, authorities and administrations, exempting them from taxation in the Spanish State, and you say that this refers only to pensions for whom it has been employed. Pensions are public. The pensions in the Spanish State charge a worker who worked in the private company are public pensions. You distort everything depending on how it suits you. One private pension is for me to pay if I make a private pension plan. But if I get a pension through any country for my quote, it's obviously a public pension, regardless of who I worked for, as they're acknowledging the judgments. But with all this, you've charged, you've drowned, you've beaten the returned migrants, and now they've come to wash their faces in front of the elections and because they're obliged by the judgments of the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia. The minister is very understanding with the migrants, you have to thank him, because he treats them as well as his tax criminals friends. Mr. Rajoy and Mr. Núñez Feijóo are no better than their friends Martial Golden, Pachi Lucas or Rodrigo Rat. Both of them are citizens' executioners, and both of them steal the future and life from youth. If there's snow or the sun shines in the creek, it's the least. I will end by announcing, from now on, that I will support the motion that the interpelents present at the next plenary in defense of the rights of returned migrants and against the policies of wear of the ministry and the board of Galicia itself. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u360	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. Parliamentary Group of the Left Galician Alternative. Mr. Fajardo Recoso has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u361	Good afternoon, everyone. The truth is, I don't go out of my wonder every time I hear some member of the government and talk about what you've done to help a collective. And of course, the councillor of Fairy appears here to say what he has done since his responsibility to help this collective, and that this is a summary of two actions...! A letter in March. That letter is the letter most widely used in this gallery by the Government to justify the inaction that exists in recent times. A letter in March. And the next thing they did was put information on the website. You know what they put on the website? Four buttons. Three of them need digital certificate, which if someone like me, who worked as a computer, made web pages, and that I'm a little busy, it's hard to access that information, imagine for a returned pensioner that you have to access that information you put on the website! If a person has no digital certificate or has no electronic DNI, he is no longer allowed to access that part of the information. The other one they put on was a little button that put on: info to download the request document. You know what that is? A link to the BOE. A link to the BOE of 28th of 11th of 2014. That's all the explanation you put in, a link to an official bulletin. Don't take our hair off! Really, don't take our hair off! Do you think that is a proactive attitude to facilitate the situation of the returned pensioners? No, no, no, no. This is the clear and obvious demonstration of how the People's Party has priorities, and politics is a matter of priorities. You've decided to make life easier for those who have accounts abroad. They decided fiscal amnesties to those who cheat millions of euros. By the way, a former vice president of the government with you, who even had accounts in Gibraltar. That Gibraltar that you occasionally use to slip the bulk, and it turns out that the peaks responsible for the People's Party had accounts in Gibraltar. That is its measure: on the one hand, to help the big fraudsters, to have on the table the possibility that they will be paid seats in black, or to have it almost all – except one – their treasurers charged with monetary matters. That's the reality of the People's Party. But in addition – I insist – politics is a matter of priorities. Do you know how many of the Fairy inspectors you have dedicated yourself to the great tax fraud of big fortunes and big business? 10% of the tax inspectors. 10% for tax fraud, which accounts for 70% of the fraud, which is that of the great fortunes. So it's clear who you're after. You pursue the citizen of the common, the families, but do not pursue those who are actually the great frauds of the country. Those who have large amounts, not only in tax havens, but in that financial engineering that prevents many cases in this country from paying taxes that they have the most. In this country, the IRPF is precisely designed to pay taxes only two types of people: workers and workers, pensioners, and people who receive some kind of State benefit. That's the impossive reality of this country. Besides, you have made an inaccuracy here that, of course, as the head of the country's Fairy to me. He said the IRPF was the one where all the rents were taxed. Man, unfortunately it's not like that. You know as I do that there are incomes that don't tax on the IRPF. By the way, you know there's a special tax deal for those of us in this House that prevents an important part of what we earn tax on the IRPF. So that statement you said here is not true. It is certainly sad for the Government to make claims that they are not even real. I'm asking you to have a proactive attitude, to defend those who need it most. It's no coincidence, the People's Party and the Government decided at a time that they had to enter and went to the weakest, the pensioners, and now they continue with that extortion work. Because, if you could well return those interest, those interests, and those charges charged to those pensioners on their own, because they have the information, what if they did was to send 650,000 letters these days – until June – to tell them what to regulate. And letters that in their text and literature contain a language, at least extorting, which makes people afraid and do, perhaps, things that they wouldn't do in other conditions. So I ask that diligence for those who, for example, charge surpluses, for those who, for example, cover envelopes in b, or for those who are accustomed to advise in a strange way the great multinational builders and then forget to put that in their declarations of goods, income and so on. I ask for the same diligence and agility. What a chance you're after the child and you're not able to chase the big cheater! So we could talk about what happens when you send tax inspections to the weddings, it's not going to be a big tax fraud in a wedding, and they don't send them to the parties that are irregularly funded as the People's Party is. He's accusing 1.8 million of fraud in this situation. But what are we going to think of a long-standing party, and even acquitted the International Monetary Fund to a person who today is clear that he can be a fraud? Although it's not less true than the last ones in charge of the International Monetary Fund are not very good people. One is accused of sexual offences, another is accused of fraud, and another is charged with the evasion of capital. So, at the very body that controls the world economy, it turns out there were three guys, or three people, three people, that they all have some kind of crime behind their backs. That clearly indicates who governs this world and who governs this country. People accustomed to, with a hard neck, being able to steal from the majority of society. So we're in this interrogation, what we're telling you is that it can't be the Government of Greece a simple manager who uses a website to put four buttons supposedly to help the returned pensioners, and it's unable to tell the central government that what he has to do is social justice, and that, therefore, they are taxing just like the rest of pensioners and that, in any case, they have enough information to publicly attack those responsible other parties who are supposed to have some bill that comes from the Government of Venezuela, and so clearly they have information to, of course, return that money. Just like you should, as soon as possible, put on the table all the information you have on the Falciani list and explain how you might have denied that commission of inquiry in the State Parliament to investigate those more than 700 people who are on the list of people who came to the amnesty and who are not well known where that money came from. But of course, all this in a party that in our country has a president accustomed to walking through the rivers with drug traffickers, of course, leaves very much in question what is his work as an inspector and who you want to pursue and who you don't. In this country, the worker, the small self-employed, the small entrepreneur, the person who doesn't reach the end of the month and has to do some work in order to feed his children, but he doesn't pursue the one who has several million euros in Gibraltar and can therefore finance these several million euros election campaigns of the great political organizations of this country. We will certainly support the proposal on the table, but we would ask you to explain to us, apart from those questions simply – let us say – what bureaucrats you have done, what you plan to do this government to improve the situation of these workers and pensioners. And I ask you, in addition, an additional question that should be on the table and that should be on the motion proposal brought by the appellants, although I'm no one to tell you what to bring on your motion, but I think someone should put on the table as if the problems caused by these people were resisted. I say the moral damage and damage, for example, the physicists who have these people, pensioners, in many larger cases, who receive a letter in their home saying that they have to pay thousands of euros that they don't have and that, if they don't, they can be barred. How is that damage offered to these people compensated? How do you compensate for those sleepless nights? How do those diseases or medications that they had to receive to overcome this stress condition be compensated? I believe that we must also make up for it, and that ministers of the Fairy must have absolutely little empathic with their citizenship, which provoke these situations, should have some responsibility. So, I hope you've got some information on this, or, in any case, tell us if you've even had the right to look at what that information on the website was like to admit that a 70-year-old pensioner is going to be very difficult to use that website for information.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u362	Socialist Parliamentary Group. Mrs. Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u363	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Counsellor, we have repeated debate over the past, but I shall try not to repeat at least some of the arguments, although it is worth remembering some questions. I believe that none of those whom we spoke – when less, of course, from the Socialist Parliamentary Group we are not going to do so – are asking the Government of Galicia to resolve this situation, but to worry about it and to deal with it, and that, in addition to writing to the Central Government, it is politically positioned, because we are talking about a political position. A political position that we have taken here in this Parliament, a few months ago, and from which there are still a number of premises that are not met, and what we ask the German Government is that it manages to fulfill this. For example, we would like to know what the German Government thinks about the behaviour of the State Tax Agency with these pensioners. At our trial, the behavior of the State Tax Agency with returned emigrant pensioners leaves much to be desired. First they were treated as criminals. They did a chase, a massive and planned inspection, to all the immigrant pensioners. Of course, they did this while, at the same time, they were doing an amnesty. Today we know who that fiscal amnesty was for. Even today, no one in the Tax Agency or the Government of Spain has made a public recognition to immigrant pensioners or apologized for what they did. So when we refer to a solution that we consider insufficient, because we understand that returns should be made on our own, both from interests and sanctions, a solution that is lacking in means will be agreed upon. And you know that you lack means, because, in fact, if we don't protest in this Parliament, the offices of the Foz and Monforte Tax Agency would not open and the immigration pensioners in Lugo would have to go to the city of Lugo to claim. You have to put yourself in a position to overcome this situation. By the way, we would also like you to speak to us today about that commitment you acquired, just over a month ago, to put means in the municipalities of Galicia to help in those areas where there are many people affected. What is this commitment and when will these offices be opened? Then there was an absolute lack of sensitivity, because when the Central Government recognized that it was kicking, that it was not going to charge them with their interests or sanctions, they continued – and the People's Group knows it because we've talked about it many times in this Parliament – by blinding them to returning emigrant pensioners, with the well-known inconveniences to these people. And now, when we refer this procedure to return to those who have already done taxation those sanctions and those interests, it is done in a way that causes a lot of confusion in people who have to ask for this and a lot of confusion in those who have not yet done any proceedings. Why? Well, for example, because the Tax Agency is notifying everyone and each of the immigrant pensioners, when an important part of them don't have to file the statement. Because, as you know, besides having two payers, there's another requirement, which is economic accountancy. In the case of the second payer, if the economic account is less than EUR 1,500, that person does not have to file the income statement. However, they're notifying you the same way, from the Tax Agency, this obligation, with which that person has to go to the office, he has to ask, sometimes they inform him in a way, in another way, and they're also causing these people to be confused. So it seems to us that the behaviour of the State Tax Agency leaves much to be desired, and we would like to see the Government of Galicia protest energetically. Besides sending letters, protesting and demanding a behavior of respect for immigrants, making excuses for what has been done and correcting what can be corrected still today. Then, with regard to the pensions of Germany, because he actually looks at the Central Government, he doesn't have to listen to the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia, but he can do something, and I'd like to see the Government of Galicia asking for that. The Central Government may file a cassation appeal before the Supreme Court to unify doctrine, to hear case law, and to ensure that pensioners returned from Germany do not have to make such statements. Isn't it true that the Central Government can do that? Well, I'd like to see the German Government asking for this question. And the central government can also look for ways to get those pensions that are received from abroad if it makes them a unification of payers, so to speak. If the General Social Security Treasury is the one who pays pensions, if the National Social Security Institute is the one who manages pensions, why is it not thought – if you do not want to make a specific tax reform – that you can modify international agreements and that between governments in countries, each other, if you pay pensions, so that returned immigrant pensioners get through a single payer? Because we'd solve the problem, wouldn't we? It's an imaginary solution, and there may be others, without having to make a fiscal reform. Well, what we'd like to see is that we'd like to see the Greek Government come up with solutions to help the returned immigrant pensioners. Beyond the fact that we recognize that, in fact, you don't have the competition, you can't stay out of competition just by putting some people in the State Tax Agency's offices, which did not make the Central Government, and writing some letters. This goes politically, here is a political commitment, this is the autonomous community in which the most returned immigrant pensioners are, the most affected is Galicia, so the Greek Government should be doing this and not be shielded from having no competence. Because you see, Counsellor, the behaviour of the Government of Spain in this situation is so regrettable that, when in January 2012 Vice President Soraya Sáenz of Santamaría solemnly declared in a council of ministers that: "The most unfair and the most unfair possible is that the one who, having the obligation to declare, does not declare, or does not declare what belongs to him." When I made this statement on these regularizations that were being made, for example, with the returned immigrant pensioners, that same government approved a tax amnesty for the big fraudsters from within two months. But not only that, but that in May 2012 the Central Government published in the Official State Bulletin an order that allowed money-laundering in cash without any penalty and without asking about its origin. And do you know who they put in front of the anti-fraud office in the central government as number two? A person who had to resign for the Gescartera scandal, Mrs. Pilar Valente, former director of the National Securities Market Commission, who had to resign in 2001 for his performance in the Gescartera scandal. And do you know – that we already know – why you served that fiscal amnesty – that you don't even want to hear about the People's Party – what did Mr. Rajoy's government do? Well, look, so as not to pick up practically anything. Of course, what was planned, the 2,500 million euros, not far away, not far away! And without making any fiscal amnesty, only with anti-fraud measures, the previous government, in just two legislates, raised 56,000 euros. Because you know how to fight tax fraud, Counselor? You know, and so do I. By providing means to those who have to investigate and pursue, and not by attempting to politically control those instruments that the State has to prevent and fight tax fraud. That's what to do, and don't come here pretending I don't know what things. Returned emigrant pensioners are not tax fraudrs, they are misinformed people, in many cases by the State Tax Agency, who were then persecuted as tax offenders. And the Greek Government has to stand by its side, and not only with letters or with a few people in the State Tax Agency's offices, but by standing in front of and reporting all those breaches and that inaccurate wrong behavior, which is lacking in respect of the Central Government. And I haven't seen you there yet. I hope that today, in its second intervention, it will be put on, and I also hope that, when we discuss the motion to be tabled by the author of this interpellation, the German Government will commit itself. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u364	Thank you, Mrs Gallego. People's Parliamentary Group. Mrs. Pouso.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u365	Good afternoon, gentlemen. Well, Counsellor, we've come here to hear the opposition groups that, indeed, if one of them said he was amazed at the actions of the People's Party, our group is still more astonished because, when from here on proposed amendments and reforms of laws to further aid, if possible, these anti-fraud actions, you all stand against. And we are most astonished that when the motions for resolutions of the Council of Auditors are being debated in this House, even those of the Nationalist Blocks of Galicia are going to become full-fledged with citizens. That's what concerns all that tax fraud and all that irregularities against these opposition groups! Ladies and gentlemen, we're sick of demagogy for you. Fatigue of the demagogy that the opposition groups spend. We were listening here to Mr Fajardo's intervention and Mrs Martínez's intervention. Mrs Martínez – who I think has gone away at this moment from the House – called us from everything; from ruins, from ruins, we were being held back. It turns out we're being robbed by those who stand in front of groups of citizens who encourage looting and raiding supermarkets. I'm asking you to trick us into ruining those of the People's Party! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Mr. Fajardo, I am glad that you are completely undeployed, because you think you are in this gallery in the Greek Parliament. And no, Mr. Fajardo, you're in the German Parliament and you're in the Spanish state! And the People's Party, Mr. Fajardo, is not Syriza, which makes these fiscal amnesties and presumes and you suck at the progressives. [[Applause]] And they come here to teach lessons? Of what? What do they come to teach? And already to focus on the issues, which you too have a lot of this about asking for public services and asking for better services to citizens, it turns out that they are then placed on unequal tax treatment in the face of equal economic situations. We must have boldness, ladies and gentlemen! You have to be bold to come here to make the speeches that you make. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Tell them...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u366	Silence! Don't get into the debate.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u367	The opposition gentlemen were hounded here that they stood in favour of the defense of returned emigrants. Look, I'm going to tell you that you don't have the exclusiveness in this matter. Even Members of our parliamentary group have met with return emigrants listening to their problems and working to find solutions to regulate these situations. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And look, if any solutions have been found. [[Murmurs.]] Mr. Fajardo, I know that later you don't listen and, of course, you don't know what the subject is about, and you're dedicated to making it unique and exclusively demagogy. It was a subject this very much debated in this House. A unanimous agreement was reached, ladies and gentlemen, in which these returned migrants were asked not to be treated as fraud, but rather to be given the possibility of regulating their tax situation without having to face penalties for interest or fines. Well, it was a Government of the People's Party, Mrs Gallego, who came to amend that Act of the Socialist Party – you continually forget in your speeches that it was a Government of the Socialist Party – the law of the IRPF; and it was a Government of the People's Party, or the Group, who made these legislative changes to address this problem. You've made a lot of progress and explained it to me by Mr. Counsellor, ladies and gentlemen, you've made a lot of progress and you're coming here saying we want to win votes. Look, I think the opposition groups should take that message that Mrs. Peace throws here and, when you go down the streets doing these assemblies, you should clearly tell the citizens what you're asking for in your initiatives. You are asking in your initiatives that those who are in the same situation – i.e. returnees who have not been taxed in time – do not pay the tax rate; i.e., you ask that, the same remuneration and the same personal situation, do not pay. You should, in those street assemblies, tell the citizens that -- taking advantage of the fact that they are, it's true, the elections there, it's not going to be useful for you to get some vote out there that some poor fool falls down. [[Applause]] The councilman explained – as he explained to us in the full past that we had here on April 15 – the actions that were carried out, and that insistent work done by the German Government to try to solve this problem; and it was solved. The deadline is open, technical staff has been put up sufficiently numerous to meet this whole group. Even with the own resources of this Autonomous Community, which has no competence in this matter, if you have attended – you have just said, Counsellor – more than 2,900 people with this problem, more than 2,900 people who will be able to recover that money they paid for sanctions, for interest of delay affected by these regularisations. And why are they returned to them? Because it was recognized that, in fact – as a unanimous agreement had been reached and as demanded from Parliament and the Government of Galicia – these groups were not fraudulent. Mrs. Gallego, Mr. Counsellor told you that, by data from the Tax Agency, 68% of return emigrants in 2008 had been taxed. And what did you do, what happened to that 32% that was missing, didn't you expect them to be required to comply with their tax obligations? No, no, no, no. It's just that the socialist gentlemen at that time had other more serious problems. It would run in 2009 and Mr. Solves, in 2009, was even publicly declaring to us that he was envious of Mr. Bermejo because he was already a former minister. They were there, gentlemen. Well, as a result of this, as a result of the abandonment of serious functions, the abandonment of functions, the consequences come later; and they come from the exchange of information signed with other countries, from providing information with other countries precisely to avoid all of these actions of tax fraud and avoidance of capital, those actions that are discovered now that justice is taking place and that you are finding yourself criticizing; that is, the fraudsters are being stopped – and in this case I am not referring to return emigrants, I am referring to others, you know perfectly who I am referring to –, stop, and act against these actions and you come here and put the cry in the sky. Mrs Martínez, from the Joint Group, accused us of the People's Party and the Government of the People's Party of fraud and policing. Look, I think the clearest example of fraud we have patented is your presence in this House after you turn to a political group for democratic elections. That's the biggest fraud you've ever made of Galician citizenship. And you say you don't care if there's snow, if there's sunshine, because when there's snow, you go ski a little bit, and when it's sunlight, you're going to swim a little bit more, see if it's that kind of smells a little bit of that brain. [[Applause]] Make it clear, Mr. Fajardo, that I already know that the performances of the Government of Greece – which you should be in tune because they are of the same political line – have a little undisturbed to you, of course; it will be that it is not the PP who do amnesty, but rather the more you do, the ones who call them the progressives, those who are in all those motions of tides and left and all that. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] For my part I have already finished, but I end by encouraging you, Counsellor, to continue your work, to continue to work, and to insist and claim, that you actually take the Tax Agency as a criterion, the criterion that emanates from those rulings of the High Court – which well explained here that they do not feel jurisprudence, but that it would be appropriate to have them taken into account to try to avoid, if interpretation in the end will be in the same line, causing problems or inconveniences to those affected –.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u368	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u369	And I'm telling you that the People's Party will not, in these cases, do demagoxy – no, it won't demagoxy – and that the People's Party will respect those constitutional principles which are established that, in the face of personal situations and equal pay, they will have exactly equal tax treatment. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u370	Thank you, Mrs. Pouso. Mrs. Paz's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u371	Mr. Sánchez, I think today [...] [[Applause]] I have to begin by saying that this plenary, for now, has been worth two things: one, to know that the great concern and commitment of the Galician Union in relation to the problem of returned migrants has been translated into a letter in September 2013 and, in another letter, March 4, 2014; and it also translates into a link on the Galician Tax Agency website to which as everyone and all we know the people over 70 are the maximum consumers of electronic administration in this country, both by knowledge and by means, as well as by infrastructure, considering that many of them live in rural areas. Look, Counselor, I wanted to ask you several questions. One: you say they put a phone and they put Galician board staff in tax agencies to inform people; I'd like to know exactly what they're told, I'm very curious to know... when you call a returned emigrant who says, "Look, I've been in Germany, I have to make the 2012 statement, yes or no?Ssh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh What do the officials tell you? Or when he calls an emigrant and says, "I was in Switzerland, I have a 100% disability, here people who have an absolute disability don't pay, do I have to pay, yes or no?Ssh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh What do they tell you in the Tax Agency? When he calls a returnr from Holland and says, "Look, I've been in Holland and I earn 31,000 euros a year, but I get 14,000 in Germany, and the Tax Agency official tells me that those 14,000 can't deduce them anywhere," what do the Galician board officials say?, what do you have to pay for another 8,000? That is, a person who earns 31,000 euros a year pays 14,000 in the Netherlands, 8,000 here, in total 22,000 euros. Listen, I don't think Rat, if he gets to pay for the 48 million euros he stole, he'd have to pay so much for IRPF; and that this is a scandal, Counsellor. Is that what the officials tell them? And you say you sent them a letter that I don't know who put a link on the website? Look, another very specific question: can we count on you as the representative of the... Ah!, Mrs Pouso Maneiro was surprised that the opposition groups want to change the law in Parliament, is that it's something, pof!, super-surprising, huh? I'm the flipper, huh? It's just that you never saw another one, want to change the law in a parliament... we're in revolution, yes, yes, you're right, that's Greece, of course! [[Applause]] Counsellor, can we count on you to ask the State to change the law? Can we, yes or no? An unfair law that treats migrants unfairly – I mean 35/2006–. Can we count on you to ask you to repeal the unique additional provision of Law 26/2014 which is a chapuza? Can we ask for it, Mrs. Maneiro? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Counsellor, can we count on the board of Galicia to sue the state? But something more than with a letter that... by the way, has the letter arrived on April 3, 2014? Did they tell you? Because, of course, my parents left for Switzerland in the year 58 and I think the letters took less time; but, well, now it looks like Mails since it was privatized works worse. Are you willing to defend with us, before the state, that the invalids of returned migrants are recognized? Although, indeed, we all know that the High Court of Justice does not feel jurisprudence, but when they are interested in you, they are already worth the judgment of the first instance to say that the judges give you the reason; so I believe that, with regard to Mrs Prado, no secret cars will feel jurisprudence – and it is good that we have spent it here for several full hours. If they were interested, and if they were really so committed to return emigrants, I don't think there was any problem with assuming the doctrine, not only the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia, but other higher courts of justice. So that's not an argument. We could put many examples here of rulings that do not feel doctrine and which, however, are assumed as guidelines for the performance of the administration. Are you willing to ask the Tributary Administration to return them on its own...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u372	Thank you, Mrs. Paz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u373	...to all those in Germany who paid by 2013 unduly...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u374	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u375	...or are we going to have to spend money fighting tax administration?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u376	Thank you, Mrs. Paz. Thank you, Mrs. Paz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u377	Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u378	Mrs. Peace, a question. I'd like to know if the phrase you used – "especially tasty", by Marqués de Cáceres – is addressed to Mrs. Pouso. It's just that I'd like you to keep track of that. [[Mrs. Paz Franco utters words that are not perceived.]] Aren't you addressed to Mrs. Pouso? Because if she's addressed to Mrs. Pouso, she's called to order and retreat, of course. Please, I want you to make sure of that. You can't afford that guy... [[Murmurs]] [[Mrs. Paz Franco utters words that are not perceived]] Make sure she's not going to her. Will you tell me what you're talking about, or will you tell me, or won't you? That expression is removed and has a call in order. Shuttle tower, Mr. Farmer's advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u379	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. In the different interventions both in...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u380	Don't cause any problems, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u381	In the different interventions of both the interpelent group and opposition groups there are several things in common that I would like to make clear again enough. Go ahead and see that, despite being a son of emigrants, Mrs. Martínez... because, when you talk about emigration, I live in my own flesh; when you talk about the German agreement, I live in my own flesh. Please note that, for example, from the year 62 until the year 99, that was my reality, with which I live and from which I am very proud, by the way; I have a lot to thank you for. But it's just that, even if I wasn't an emigrant's daughter, I would have to thank you very much, not only this person or counsellor who talks to you, but anyone of good who's sitting here in this Parliament, and especially those who're outside, who's the one we owe. [[Applause]] So that kind of lesson, the minimum. What is strange to me is also some intervention, as such a serious matter is taken in a shocking plan, with certain laughs and certain comments that do not come up with the case. Let me not focus – but also not do a biunevo dialectic with respect to the interpelent group – some part of his intervention, with the last intervention, because I think particularly that the subjects must be grounded, with such a complicated theme, with the utmost sensitivity. I think this shocking guy as he was exposed here doesn't, in my opinion, demonstrate that sensitivity. And when a political position is requested of this government, I believe that I have been sufficiently clear in my intervention, as with regard to the problem of the German convention and the rulings that have taken place, from the very first moment the position of this government has been clear and taxive. We fully agree with the pronouncement, although it does not feel jurisprudence, and so – in an insistent, insistent way, as a millstone – we will not tire of replication to try to get the State Tax Agency to change its approach to the pronouncement which is deduced from the judgments of the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia. Because, in essence, we are before that?, before the same as always: we are not before a fraudulent collective in any way; so we said from the beginning, so was all our action over the last few years and so it will continue to be – and so we will continue to accompany, through letters, through contacts, with pressures even of a non-formal nature, etc., with all the tools that any government can have –. Because, I repeat again, we're not faced with a fraud collective, that's a lot of what we've done so far. They do not minimize all the help that was provided, starting with the meetings when not even the various commissions – some with very significant names where a clear electoral intention, Mrs. Paz – is reflected. [[Murmurs.]] All we have to do is look at certain issues when, like a boomeran, they come back against, even some designations from some coordinators. When there were no such coordinators, or in a very incipient way, this government was already concerned about the issue, busy, and so we'll always go on because there are things left to do. But we value how much ahead of time, we do not despise the change as we have just made of the additional provision of the 2014 Law on the modification of the IRPF. It is an almost historical step that takes place; we take advantage of this historic step. And yet we recognize that there is still a deficit in some of the points and in some that are not so small, but that they can be quantitative, let's try it! If that's what we call the issue of permanent disabilities in other countries, let's do it! If we realize that, even with our pressures, we are not being sufficiently – in the colorary – attended and there are other imaginary ways to do so, let's do them, as we are going to do! Because what is clear is that this government will support, support and continue to support these kinds of collectives, but not for an election issue, a question of recognition, of conviction, as I spoke to them earlier. So it's a lot of the effort we've made. We're intrusive and it's a very short time term, as it can be two months; I think there's a lot to do but the results will be seen. And the results will show us each of those nine thousand and I peak people who are being cared for today, and who are not just...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u382	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u383	...is playing on the website – like some grace is done here–. By the way, it's curious that you criticize Joina on certain issues, such as the website with certain information, and then you shoot yourself talking here for ten minutes of non-appropriate questions. As Baltasar Gracián said, "Good, short, twice good." And we don't have to fill time and so on to say certain questions.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u384	Thank you, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u385	Therefore, the Board has been before, now and will agree with these collectives on an individual level. And much remains to be done, but so we will continue to do, whether or not – as I said before – and sometimes we don't recognize ourselves, what we're doing in an accelerated way.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u386	Thank you, Counselor. Point 7 of the agenda, corresponds to questions to the Government. Question by Da Paula Prado del Río and seven other Members of the G.P. Popular of Galicia, on the results of the institutional trip to Cuba of the Vice-President of the Galician Union and Councillor of the Presidency, Public Administrations and Justice together with the Secretary-General of Emigration
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u387	To put the question, you have the floor to Mrs. Prado. Give a voice to Mrs Prado's chair, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u388	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good afternoon, Mr. Vice-President. Just over fifteen days ago, you were returning from an institutional journey to the Republic of Cuba, a journey that the People's Parliamentary Group thought to be not only interesting but also timely because it was produced in a scenario where the United States and Cuba were beginning to lift the coldness of their relationships. The difference between opposition groups, from the Popular Parliamentary Group, we believe that official visits to the Welsh diaspora undoubtedly constitute an obligation for any German government, but should be carried out rationally, with clear objectives, unbounded by electoral appeals and strictly distinguishing the institutional actions of mere partisans. This, Mr Vice-President, of course, without incurring the mistakes of the past. And for that, the Government of the People's Party, with these clear criteria, was able to present, in 2011, an ethical code on the regulation of official trips abroad, something unpublished so far. A code that has been consolidated over the years, which forced the Government to appear periodically to report on its travels and which, for the last year, has shielded itself to the integral in a global text, the Institutional Ethical Code of the Galician Union. Indeed, we bear in mind the mistakes of the past: it is difficult to forget the red color of those socialist red flags in 2008 before Mr. Touriño's presence on that trip to Bos Aires. Or the problems that this two-party government had to take both sides of the government on an institutional journey. And perhaps, for that reason, Mr. Vice-President, your journey has caused criticism in the opposition; perhaps because you think, gentlemen, that we all act the same way without seeing beyond your demagogy. But the fact is that President Feijóo's government has always marked enormous differences in what travel abroad refers to, not confusing the party's travels with institutional travel. And in that sense, we're going to maintain coherence in what the value of trips abroad refers to. And I remember Mr. Feijóo's speech on 18 December 2007 on a trip from Mr. Touriño to Cuba where he positively appreciated it, because he understood that the trips abroad, if they were for the benefit of the Greeks and the Greeks, were absolutely positive. That, Vice-President, is unthinkable at present. There is nothing the Government can do that is positively appreciated by the opposition, nothing. But, of course, that's how it goes, because citizenship knows how to distinguish perfectly between demagogy and reality. And that's why they're still installed in permanent catastrophe even though they suffer an indentation of votes that, far from making them react, causes them to act like a hair without a head without giving out drums with constant performances and theaters and ever-higher declarations of tone and far away from people's feelings. That's why, Vice-President, we hope that the opposition will appreciate the importance of maintaining relations with the Republic of Cuba...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u389	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. [[Mr Prado del Río speaks words that are not perceived.]] Thank you, Mrs. Prado. [[Mr Prado del Río speaks words that are not perceived.]] [[Applause]] Response from the Vice-President and President's Adviser, Public Administrations and Justice.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u390	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. Prado, indeed, only fifteen days ago ended this journey, which was short but I think it is fruitful. And now I'm going to explain... fruity to those who want to see it as something objective, of course, who is not able to see it in any other way, probably go on without seeing the opportunity to go to a place where everyone, now, actually, wants to go and have an interest. And there's no more to the schedule that the Cuban government officials told us about next visit. I believe that from very important countries that are looking for the same thing that Galicia has been looking for there – part of our relationship with our diaspora – opportunities that are undoubtedly open from now on. So I would also like to thank you – and take this opportunity in this Parliament – not only for the work of the Spanish Embassy there, which has made many things easier for us, but also for the Cuban Government. And one sees that Galicia there has many open doors, probably for all the work that has been done for a long time and for many governments. And besides, it's logical because there are many Greeks there living, still of the first generation, and many descendants of the Greeks who have Galicia very present. And that was precisely our first goal: to be with our diaspora, to be with the Greeks and the Greeks who still live there and with their descendants; that it is true – and you have to go there to see it – they still live very closely everything Galicia requires, everything that entails the impact of Galicia and everything that implies the presence of Galicia in Cuba. So that was the first goal of that journey, I say, that all the governments of Greece since our autonomous community existed had special attention to the Greeks in Cuba and so we continue to do so. Since 2009, EUR 12 million has been devoted to aid to the Greeks and their descendants who live there, help that they need and of course help that will be maintained. And in return, what we saw was a special interest in keeping, I say, our presence there. I will no longer refer to all the cultural background of our identity: our anthem, our flag – our anthem sounded for the first time there, sung in Cuba, that is very present there. What we did there was to pay a little tribute to the Galego Center in Havana, remembering that and thanking us in addition – which I think is very important – that it was in Cuba – and we hope that they will take an example in other Greek communities around the world – where they realized that it was necessary to join in order to be stronger; thirty-eight Greek associations in Cuba formed a single partnership, they're renewing and that's the first message we want to give them. And see if we can, besides – and we talked to the Government of Cuba too – make the Galician Council of Communities abroad, celebrate it in Havana, celebrate it in our Galician Centre in Havana. And with that, no doubt, generating an important recognition in that emblematic center that the presence of the Greeks in Cuba is very plasmaable, and I think that at this moment we are all particularly interested in helping all of us to get all those opportunities that open up through a work and presence that takes a long time...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u391	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u392	...that it has to be consolidated and that the Union...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u393	Thank you, thank you, Vice President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u394	...have to help keep it growing. That was...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u395	Thank you, Vice President. Replica. Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u396	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, Mr. Vice-President, indeed, we must not forget that there are more than 40,000 Welsh people living in Cuba. And, therefore, the visit of the different Greek governments to the island is always important and well received by our countrymen. And, as you have just told us, as it is also intended to incorporate the new generations of Greeks and Galicians who are descendants of our countrymen, because it further increases that capacity of the Government of Greece to help and develop the 2014-2016 Emigration Plan. What surprises us is that the opposition usually criticizes the Government's travels abroad. We would ask you – the left we already know that it does not respect anything and everything is worth against the People's Party – to respect travel abroad; because, if indeed the previous governments, and even the Government of Mr. Touriño, have traveled to Cuba for something more than to take mojitos... And, as Mr. Touriño said in this House, these are important trips on both levels of support for our Welsh and Welsh people living abroad as well as in the business of support for the companies they are working there, or even to companies that want to internationalize their products, because the truth is that we expect the opposition to be a little more serious and support these trips outside the Welsh Government – and remove and put aside all those empty criticisms of content that they carry out nothing, because what we should do is always to unite efforts to defend all these interests. Because I want to remind the members of the opposition that there are Welsh and Welsh abroad, there are Greek companies that work abroad, there are companies outside that want to come to work and settle in Galicia, and that's why Government travel abroad is fundamental. And that's why, Mr. Vice President...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u397	Thank you, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u398	...we thank you for your work...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u399	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Thank you, Mrs. Prado. [[Mr Prado del Río speaks words that are not perceived.]] [[Applause]] Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Shut up. Mr. Vice-President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u400	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. Prado, in fact – I want to say – aside from the fact that the first objective is to be with our collective, with the Greeks and their descendants in Cuba, supporting our people and our presence, the second part of the journey was, not open because they were already open – the president of the board of Galicia and inner governments, I insist, of the board of Galicia, were already in Cuba –... because in 2013 the president of the board of directors of Cuba was welcomed by Raúl Castro, and there he made it very clear what our targets were from Galicia to Cuba. And what we went there was to point out, I insist, accompanied by the ambassador of Spain. It coincided – as you know – with the Summit of the Americas and therefore received the maximal seconds responsible for the ministries – the headlines were at that time in Panama –: the Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs, to which we told him that Galicia is there and that we believe that all the work done and our presence gives us a right, at least, to be heard preferably and to have at least the same opportunities, knowing all that is known about Galicia and can be done in Cuba for –I insist – all that is open from now on. That's what we wanted to pass on to the Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs, that Galicia has not just arrived, like many of the countries they want. France was to arrive the President of the French Republic two or three weeks later. We've been there a long time, so we know each other, and we want to remind them every day that they know how the Galicians and the Greeks are working there, and therefore how they can do the Greek companies. That's what we wanted to pass on to the Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs. We were also welcomed by the Deputy Minister of Culture. I think the flowing relationships between Cuba and Galicia are there, for everyone who wants to see you. One of the main reasons for the trip was to attend the "La Huella de España" festival, which sponsors such a well-known figure, and promotes in Cuba, like Alicia Alonso. And also the Spanish Embassy, the Spanish Ministry of Culture, in the center of Havana, we did an act that was the prolegos of many more than they did that week. I think it's very nice, with a lot of people's competition, and where many demonstrations were made of our folklore, our culture. I've already said it's a festival with a huge impact on Havana and all over Cuba. He was dedicated to Galicia and would also last for a while, and he had to be there; I think it was obliged to be there at his presentation. That's what we're talking to the Ministry of Culture about the possibility of exchange. Through culture, I believe that many bridges can continue to be held and, therefore, we are talking about reactivating the teaching of Greek in Cuba, I think it is important. And also to make exchanges with young Cuban girls and young gals so that they could come here and we could go there and keep those cultural ties that are so important. And finally, we were also welcomed by the Deputy Minister of Commerce. Now that Cuba is installing important economic areas, such as the Mariel area, where so many companies and so many countries, starting with what's closest, the most powerful, the United States, want to go there to take advantage of the opportunities, we believe there are lots of Spanish companies and very well-trained Welsh companies. And it's the ambassador of Spain and we're going to talk about the Greek companies that can, for the entire agricultural sector, for the entire food sector, for the entire building rehabilitation sector...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u401	Thank you. Thank you, Vice President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u402	..., for the whole logistics sector, have great opportunities. We left the memo there...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u403	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u404	...and we expect that memo to give the fruit.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u405	Thank you, Vice President. Question by D. Antón Sánchez García, from G.P. of the Alternative Galaga de Left, on the administrative record of the authorization of the merger of the Welsh savings boxes, approved by the Council of the Galician Union on 18 November 2010
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u406	Give Mr. Sánchez a voice, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u407	Good afternoon, Counselor. Year and a half after the end of the appearances, the People's Party, without explanation, keeps the commission of research on savings boxes in the paralysis and without ending or restarting the work. A parliamentary case research committee should be used to determine the political responsibilities of those responsible for controlling entities and did not exercise them or misexecuted them. In the savings boxes there were those who handled it wrong, there were those who stole it, there were those who had little or no ethical behaviors, and there were those who, complicit in all this defeat, allowed it; among them, the Bank of Spain, who had powers to watch, and the Town Council, who also had them. This commission should work to identify the direct or indirect perpetrators of the theft to the preferentialists and the documentary details for which the failed merger between the old Galician Box and New Box was authorized. We are therefore called attention that two years later we continue without access and without the complete dossier of the November 2010 Board Agreement signed by Marta Fernández Currás, which authorized the merger and which, according to her own written appearance, included reports of technicians from the Business Council, internal reports. And I read, they ask in the audience, "In several sections of his reply, there is mention of several internal reports made by the technicians of the Business Council. Since these reports have not been made available to the Commission, can you point out the reasons why you consider that the transfer has not been made?" Technical information – she responds – "was oral and written. The written reports were incorporated into the final report of November 2009, which, according to information known from the information sent by the Galician Board, work within the documentation of a reserved nature referred to the Research Commission." Counsellor, I believe that it is not included in the confidential information of the Research Committee. I checked it myself and none of the opposition members were able to find it. Besides, we've asked for it in writing on different occasions and it hasn't been delivered to us. We also did not find within the documentation the letter of commission carried out by the Galician Board for the Due Diligence of KPMG, where it set the criteria that were previously to be studied for the study of the merger of savings boxes. I don't know if for you these two issues aren't transcendental or important for debugging or determining political responsibilities, for us. And for us the concealment of this information, the non-facilitation of this information, because it is indicative that you intend to hide the truth in the Box Research Commission, just as they intend to shed the bulk of their responsibility in the issue of preference during their years of government. I hope you answer me and I hope you help me...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u408	Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u409	...to be able to access those technical reports. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u410	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. Answer from the Consecutor of Fairy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u411	Thank you, Mr. President. In recent years, the Spanish financial sector has experienced one of the most complex, complete and deep restructuring processes in the euro area. The concentration process was remarkable in the sector, with a drastic reduction in the number of operators and practice disappearance of savings boxes as we knew them, because of the eleven survivors of that time only two, the smaller ones, still maintain their original legal form. Galicia was not alien to this situation of change on the Spanish banking map and throughout this time, and the difference between others, the Union always had its position very clear: to defend Galicia's common interest, to bet on having a solvency financial entity, with its decision-making centre in Galicia. Unfortunately, during the period 2005-2008, the Greek savings banks had launched a geographical and risk-giving expansion, mainly in the real estate and construction sector, which had made none of the entities viable and could continue alone. Ladies and gentlemen, the merger was not the problem, the problem was in the balance sheets of the boxes, the inadequate supervision of the Banco de España and the inaction of the two-party government, who looked to the other side during these years. The merger of the boxes, however, was not a Galician board project, but it was the project of all the Greeks, viable and solvent, in favour of the Galician society, supported by reports from public administrations and independent audits. I remind you that you have counted on the favourable and majority vote of the Galician Parliament, that at its meeting on 9 November 2010 you have granted your compliance to the merger of the boxes by 61 votes in favour and no votes against. I remind you that you reported with the authorization of the Banco de España, which expressly considered the solvency, profitability, liquidity of the new entity, that the costs associated with the project were assumed by the new box and that the operation would generate synergies by reducing costs and economies of scale, thus increasing efficiency and profitability. I remind you that you also reported on the favourable resolution of the National Competition Market Commission, with the permission of the FROB, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and the European Commission. From the very first moment that Parliament has called for cooperation from the Galician Council to clarify the entire process of merging the boxes, the Union has collaborated by making all the information requested available to it. In October 2010, as defined in Article 54.1 of the Galicia Savings Box Act, and before the Board authorised the merger, the merger process of the entities, the statutes of the new entity, the draft merger writing, the individual merger balances of each entity, the resulting merger balance and the reports of the administrators of both entities were sent to Parliament. Even so, on the basis of the Committee of Inquiry, the Galician Bureau referred all the documents and data and reports which were in its possession and were requested by the Commission. In particular, on June 6, 2013, a relationship of more than one hundred and thirty documents was issued, including all the reports on the merger of the boxes, both those made in the entities.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u412	Thank you. Thank you, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u413	...like those that were done at the Council and those that were done by independent experts.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u414	He's got another shift later. Replica, Mr. Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u415	It's not true, Counselor, none of the opposition groups are found inside that documentation, and that's an index of a hundred pages where all the documentation is delivered. How can I check in front of you that there are no such reports from the farm technicians that Mrs. Fernández Currás speaks of? It doesn't exist, it's checked. That's a lie, they don't exist. We want to know if the merger agreement has caused that file to disappear or if it's been extradited like the files of Martial Dorado, we want to know, whether they're or not. Because Mrs. Fernández Currás's appearance is written and says, "The difference between what came during the previous government mandate, in which the control tasks of the Greek savings boxes were subcontracted to the AFI consultant, the reports were prepared by the departments with sectoral expertise in savings boxes." "With sectoral competences," because I also remind you, Counsellor, that the Galician Council had powers of surveillance, inspection and control of savings boxes in the bipartite, but also from the year 2009. From 2009 to 2011 it is when a fine is imposed on the Galician Savings Box by the broadcast of the preferences, irregularly. And you at that time also had surveillance work, according to the text recast of Galician Saving Box Law. And you looked the other way, you didn't monitor the proper marketing of the preferences. But you also don't tell me why, in addition to the complete file of the merger agreement, the central document, as much as the balance sheet had been bad before, the central document, there's not the letter of order to KPMG, where the criteria to study at Due Diligence were prefixed. Why did that information go missing, too, Counselor? I beg you if you keep insisting that the documentation is in there, because, as you like, if you want to go now, let's go whenever you want, and tell me where they are because I have...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u416	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. [[Mr. Sánchez García pronounces words that are not perceived.]] [[Applause]] Shut up, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u417	Thank you again, Mr. President. Your Honor, the Council of Galicia, as in many cases, as it is proving, I do not say that it is the only one, but it is the first interested in clarifying the responsibilities that everyone has had in this process over these years, and that the Commission of this research puts into the knowledge of all the failed Greeks there was in the management of the boxes, because there was a significant oversight deficit between the years 2005 and 2008, because since those who ruled the Council of Galicia in those years looked to the other side as if nothing had happened, because there was so much interest in certain areas where fusion was not consolidated, why a viable and running project is changing the rules of play. You are asking me about the merger agreement, which, I repeat again, before it was authorized to merge by the Galician Union in October 2010, the file was sent to the Galician Parliament, which passed it without a vote against. You ask me about a merger agreement published in the Official Journal of Galicia. You ask for reports on the merger of boxes when not only the reports, but all the documentation that has been requested is in the possession of the Research Commission since June 2013. Your Honor, you are asking about the lines of the reports that the technicians of the Business Council have made, and just to find out what their contents had to read, to read the files that are already in the Commission. Interested therefore in reading them. Finally, if you are so interested in the Commission, and want to know the facts and responsibilities that each person has in the process, you have all the documentation at your disposal. The government has already handed her over, the rest of it is to mess around. Your Honor... and to finish, I would like to reiterate to you that I believe the Director of Finance Policy has already said it in the same question you have asked him in committee, that it is time to look towards the future, that a certain path of recovery is being initiated, that what we really need to worry about right now is that financial entities are contributing. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] For what? To advance in the growth of that recovery. By what? Making credit flow both to families and, above all, to our small and medium-sized enterprises. I invite, please, with all humility, that this way of recovery we build it among all, contributing and valuing all the potentials that our people count for. No doubt, financial institutions also have a fundamental role to play, which is to achieve among all of them this journey that we have to do together. I wish you'd really be together. Thank you very much, Mr. Sanchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u418	Thank you, Counselor. Question from Da Consuelo Martínez García, from G.P. Mixed on the safety of the Vigo-A Coruña railway line
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u419	You have the floor to Mrs. Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u420	Thank you, President. Counselor, the high-speed Atlantic axis between Vigo and La Coruña will not count until 2017, according to ADIF forecasts, with the ERTMS control system, which was missing in the Alvia crash in English. High-speed lines in the state have different security equipment: ASFA, ERTMS and LZB. ASFA is used throughout the network, including the conventional, without warning the driver and automatically stops when speed is exceeded on a second ball. ERTMS and LZB only act at high speed. And the computer on ERTMS acts on the train by lowering speed, and on LZB the computer alerts the machine and, if it does not act, it acts on the computer itself by lowering the speed to the permitted one. After the fall of Angrois, Adif implanted in Angrois and in several other places in the state 349 new conventional ASFA ballasts. Ten of these balsams have been installed between Vigo and La Coruña. In October 2013, after the Angois accident, the then Secretary of State of Infrastructure and today Minister of Justice, Rafael Catalá, announced in Congress that the installation of the ERTMS would be advanced. His bidding, however, takes place one and a half years later and with the high-speed train running. Will it ever be a coincidence that it matches the electoral campaign again? The stretch of the Atlantic axis from La Coruña to Vigo will also have 37 tunnels, with a length of 59.2 kilometers, 38% of the journey. The longest is the tunnel of Madroa, between Roundola and Vigo, at 8,282 meters, followed by the tunnel of Meirama and the tunnel of Bregua. The fires in the Channel Tunnel in 1996 in the road tunnels of Mont Blanc in 1999, in the Tauern Tunnel in Austria in 1999 and in San Gotardo in Switzerland in 2001 revealed the need for the tunnels to have effective security systems available to enable their evacuation in case of fire. Following these fires, international regulations on tunnel safety installations have been updated, both as regards the facilities necessary for operation of tunnels under normal conditions and in the case of fire. The Adif Business Committee of Pontevedra and the CGT union warn of potential dangers on the platforms for commuters of the Arcade station, allowing direct trains to flow at 180 kilometres per hour. That's why I ask: is Galician Union guaranteed the safety of the Vigo-A Coruña railway line despite not having all the security measures until 2017? Do all high-speed Atlantic axis tunnels meet all international security measures? Do you consider Arcade Station safe? Are all the safe yellow stations for people who stay on the platforms? Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u421	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. The Environmental, Territorial and Infrastructure Adviser responds. Whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u422	Thank you, President. Madam, on 18 April the new railway Atlantic axis between Vigo and La Coruña came into operation. It is a new service which, of course, constitutes a vertebrate element throughout the territory of Galicia, is a turning point for improving the mobility of all citizens, shortening and improving travel times on all their routes and, for example, we can all travel in public transport Vigo-A Coruña in just over an hour. We're talking about the launch of a public rail transport that runs through the Atlantic corridor, the Atlantic coast, in a fast way, and also of a public transport that is safe, because that's how Adif has verified it with strict compliance with safety standards. The railway traffic signaling and management system between Vigo and La Coruña, as you know, operates today with the digital ASFA system, limiting the train speed to a maximum of 200 km/h. This is a system that checks that maximum speed is not exceeded at all, shows on one screen the actual speed as well as the last seen signal, and has three recognition pulsers that force the machine to confirm to the system if you saw the signal and the type of signal you saw. And in case you don't do it in a given time, your computer activates automatic braking and emergency braking. I have to tell you that the technicians are the ones who believe that the ASFA digital at speeds less than 200 kilometers/hour is safe, totally safe, as safe as any other system. So, Your Honor, that the Atlantic axis starts working with the digital ASFA system doesn't mean at all it's less safe. But it's not said by a counselor, it's given the approvals and certifications granted by internationally accredited bodies. Security, of course, is guaranteed, as it adjusts to the requirements determined by the technicians, according to the regulations in force. They're the technicians, the best able to decide which systems to implement. The ERTMS system is a rail traffic management system which the European Union has adopted with the ultimate aim of the Community rail network operating with the same operating system. Main advantages? For it is compatible and approved with the rest of Europe and it manages the largest number of trains. In any case, the commitment of the Ministry of Development is guaranteed and is clear, since last April 7 has negotiated the ERTMS system contract for the Traits Vigo-Santiago and Santiago-A Coruña, 68.7 million euros, which will be in service at the beginning of 2017. And when this happens, in 2017, the step we will take will be integration into the European rail network, because this is the main advantage of this ERTMS system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u423	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mrs. Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u424	Counsellor, I'm sure the technicians give a serious opinion, what I'm not sure is that the government will comply with what the technicians say, but the English accident wouldn't be explained. But, in addition, Renfe's security department has warned its drivers that they will be responsible for meeting speed constraints based on time books, road signs, having verified that they were removed at different points with permanent speed limitations the visual warning signals. As was the case in the Angrois plot, the drivers must check out the points that exceed and collate them with their timetable books to reduce the speed of the train where the minority is established, without any physical signal on the track warning them. Suppose this is an important change, they no longer sign in progress both the announcement and the announcement, the speed and the end of the announcement, as pointed out by the security and civil protection manager of Renfe. This same person recommends once the reference is in progress to start brakes or decreases in train speed. Renfe requires its professionals to make it difficult for them to refer to the points where the down of speed should be carried out to communicate it to command stations, travel management centres and inform the case in writing. A clear attempt to dodge responsibilities and bring them down on the machines. I don't know, and I'd like you to answer me, and not the technicians or Development, but Joine and you as advisor, if you know, if any of these changes in the high-speed ballads affect the Galician lines, if any of them have been cancelled and at what points, and if you believe in the security of the line itself with that ASFA system that will work as well as the platforms for travellers. And besides explaining how you can state that there is strict compliance with security standards when it's clear that the ERTMS security system is missing.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u425	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. Shut up, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u426	Thank you, President. With regard to the Renfe points that indicate and mark as unique points, these are recommendations from the railway operator to the drivers, they are safety reinforcement recommendations. But the same is true in maritime transport, air transport and road transport. It doesn't mean security is compromised. The same applies to rail transport, sea transport, road transport and air transport. I believe that in his intervention there is ignorance. The ERTMS system is neither a security system nor a braking system, it is an operating system, an operating system that promotes the European Union for strictly operational reasons. With regard to technicians, I recommend that you report. I, of course, have informed myself, of course, because she's not the advisor to whom the inspections are conducted. And, of course, on such a specific and serious subject to bring it to this House as security, I think you have to be well informed not to try to transfer anxiety to those we use public transport. I repeat to you that in the Atlantic from the first day of its operation, the railway line is safe, reliable, and strictly complies with strict security protocols and conforms to the technical requirements set by the regulations in force. In order to increase capacity, Adif – as you have said – has called for the contract of execution of the works to circulate under the supervision of the ERTMS system; a priority objective system – as I said – is to create a homogeneous European railway space, which favours and facilitates movement in the different states of the European Union. I don't know if you know that the ERTMS system in Galicia will be in 2017, but we're much more advanced than, for example, Germany. On the Stockholm-Napoles line the ERTMS system will not be up to 2030. I don't know if I knew, but in fact I'm telling you right now. And the truth and truth is that the Atlantic axis has been put into operation in a fast, safe, and short-lived way, agitating routes, a 21st century line; of course, it improves mobility, vertebration, social cohesion, equal opportunities, competitiveness in Galicia. And so it is found by the 35,000 users that we use in these first days of operation the railway Atlantic axis. I, therefore, can only congratulate the Ministry of Development, thank the Ministry of Development for its commitment to Galicia and for giving the Greeks a right that some have wanted to take away from them and that others have for more than 20 years. Therefore, a commitment that is quantified in amounts, EUR 3.700 million almost, that Minister Ana Pastor invested in the Greek railway.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u427	Thank you very much, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u428	Nothing else and thank you very much. [[Applause]] Question from Mr. Ricardo Vicente Docasar Docasar and two other Members of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the information of the Council of Culture, Education and Universitary order regarding the evaluation of the centres of education in Greece in relation to the implementation of basic vocational training
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u429	You have the word to ask your question, Mr. Docasar.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u430	All right, thank you, President. Counselor, good afternoon. It's been about seven months since the beginning of the 2014-2015 school course, more than enough time to balance the implementation of the basic FP in Galicia. As you well know, this Member who speaks to you has always considered that the implementation of the basic FP in Galicia was precipitated, chaotic and cheating. And now we also know that the zero cost has been made. You decided to put LOMCE into action just over a year ago, without counting practically anyone, and that's why we also said today that it was a law with a clear date of expiry, November 2015, and that commitment remains standing even if they don't like to hear it. Counsellor, I think I'd like to take a good look at the feelings of the education community in Galicia when I tell you that the basic FP implantation was not done properly, and now we also know that it was made low cost. The information was reaching the centers, the management teams, the students and the families late, ill and dragged. The lack of seriousness was absolute and the discomfort of the centers, the management teams and the professors who impart the basic FP is the most normal consequence. We must not forget that the basic FP came to replace existing PCPIs and that, by the way, they were working reasonably well. Nor was it a minor issue to say that PCPIs were being held in more than 300 educational centers and were being taught by more than 4,000 students, distributed through cities, villages and people in our country, and that now with the basic FP we are far from those figures. The groups of students then ranged between twenty and twelve and now walk by twenty. And you have to know better than anyone who wants to pay good attention to this type of student with twenty students per class is a real insanity. And I'm going to get to the point where I want to give special relevance today, Counselor, and what it has to do with financing this new mode of teaching. I insist: about seven months of school course are going on and we want to know today what funding and what teaching equipment the educational centers received to impart it, Mr Rodríguez. You will agree with me, Mr Counsellor, that implementing a new mode of teaching by doubling the number of students in class, without placing a single euro and doing so with the rush and improvisation that they have done so was a real disincentive. And I want to finish, Mr. Counsellor, by asking you to reply sincerely to the specific question we have raised today from the Socialist Parliamentary Group. The question is very simple: do you know the Council today the degree of satisfaction of the Greek educational institutions and their professionals with this new mode of education recently implemented? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u431	Thank you very much, Mr. Docasar. The councillor for Culture, Education and Universitary Order, Mr. Román Rodríguez, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u432	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr President, good afternoon to all and to all. You will understand, Mr Docasar, that you already know the answer that I am going to give you, and not for nothing, but because very recently you raised the exact same question in Commission 4a. Well, the Council understands as something positive the implementation of what we are calling basic vocational training. We understand that because we sincerely believe that it improves the opportunities of students and students who are studying it. And they do it for different reasons: First of all, because when the student finishes basic vocational training he's going to have a degree, he's going to have an approved degree, something that didn't happen with the PCPI, which in this case comes from old socialist laws. I understand that you also see positive that a student coming out of these cycles has an official degree. Secondly, you also know that students who take basic vocational training after a final evaluation will be able to obtain the degree degree in ESO or will be able to enter the middle grade FP cycles. They can therefore continue in some cases with continuity in the public education system. And for many young people and many girls, maybe there's no vocational training, because they have to leave the system. You are also aware that basic vocational training is contributing and contributing to reducing early abandonment. In fact, we're having the best data in these quarters of the last few years about this variable. Obviously, we have talked a lot about basic vocational training. And in this course 2014-2015 it is applying with total normality and without any kind of drastic rupture; it is making itself and is making itself with a wide offer, with an offer of squares that are meeting the needs above all. And we understand that these new mandatory teachings have been well received and are being welcomed by the educational community and those centres that are providing them. There is no improvisation, Mr Docasar, what there is is a coherent planning from the territorial point of view and from the teaching point of view. You know that a large supply of basic vocational training squares has been made, in particular, more than four thousand and three hundred new squares, which have been made taking into account a territorial distribution based on the comarcas. So we definitely understand that basic vocational training is an opportunity, an opportunity for students who are studying it, and it's a strong point in the current education system. That's what I said before: it gives a degree and allows it to be a continuous path in the studies. We therefore have a positive balance in this new form of education, and what we regret is that the Socialist Party's constant fear of creating uncertainties in the educational policy framework. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u433	Thank you very much, Counselor. Mr. Docasar's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u434	Thank you, President. Counselor, see if we understand each other. It was implanted at zero cost, yes or no? Because the question I ask you today is very clear: what is the reality? Well, I don't question that we have the FP implanted, the basic FP, which is distributed through the territory, which can lead to a screening degree, at last, those things I think I have clear them. But what I don't understand, and today there are people listening to this debate, and there are directors listening to this debate, waiting to see what the counselor says, because they want to know something very simple, they want to know: do we really get some euro for the implementation of the basic FP in which it is going on? And there are seven months of course, Counselor; I don't ask you this question in the first quarter of the academic course, I'm going to blow it up at the end of the course. Counsellor, the people who listen to us want some clarity and want seriousness in their rulers, don't tell me... I tell you that yesterday no education center in Galicia has implemented the basic FP, not one, had received a single euro for the implementation of that basic FP. You tell me what you want, but it seems to me to be a chaotic, bullshit implantation, because you can't implant something new without taking into account that we're going to need some means, that we're going to need some means to be able to impart it properly, both economic and educational media. They didn't even receive the educational media centers, and I testify to the Welsh educational community, nor did they receive the centers until yesterday a single euro. That seems relevant to me. And I'd like not to leave this Parliament today without you telling us... see, I'm sure they didn't get anything, or I'm wrong with directors or I just think I'm in another world; they didn't get a single euro and that's an obvious fact. Tell them why he didn't send them to today after seven months and tell them if you've planned to send them something from here at the end of the course, as simple as that. I don't ask you much, Mr. Román, to ask you for some common sense on that matter. The implantation was the way it was, but now we're going to know if there's any...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u435	Thank you very much, Mr. Docasar.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u436	That's reality, whether there's Euros or not.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u437	Thank you very much. Replica from the Councillor for Culture, Education and Universitary ordination, Don Román Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u438	Thank you very much. Mr Docasar, we see that we are moving forward in a positive direction. You've already made it clear that there's a territorial distribution of the basic FP network; in a positive way. You also make it clear that an official title is given. You're also clear that anyone who wanted to study basic vocational training in Galicia could do it in time and form. I think we're making a lot of progress. What you're not clear about is what I'm going to tell you next. And the first is the link with the investment being made in basic vocational training. And it is not clear that this year they are running in different centres that are providing basic vocational training important investments at infrastructure, staffing and equipment levels, in order to be able to implement them according to basic vocational training courses. And I'm just going to give you a couple of examples. Look, for example, at Burela, IES Perdour is doing a new workshop, which is aimed at providing education to the needs of the second basic vocational training course. I'm going to tell you another one, for example, the CIFP of the Junqueira, in Pontevedra, where a new workshop is being done for wood courses. And so we could say almost ten educational centers where classes are being implemented, if you're investing public money to improve teaching in basic vocational training. And with regard to operating costs, I'm going to tell you that the educational centers, just like the PCPIs did, that you're now defending so much, because I'm going to say that they're going to get the approaches that correspond to them without any kind of problem. I'm telling you the same thing that was done with the PCPI, too. That's why we think basic vocational training is an important achievement, because there are different aspects that contribute through this educational modality to which the student who runs into the labour market or can continue the training cycle in a way that, if there is no basic vocational training, could not. That's why we understand that it's coming, it's reaching all the comarcas, that there's a substantial offer in all the comarcas, that there are places for all the students who want to follow it, that there are training cycles that we believe in enough numbers and with enough branches so that we can opt for different families, that there's a coherent planning going on. So, and as a final point, I'm going to tell you that implementation is being – we understand – very satisfactory, and we also understand the comments that are obviously coming to us, they must be different from those that come to you, that implementation is being very well received by the educational centers in which it is being implemented. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u439	Thank you, Counselor. Question by Mr Agustín Baamonde Díaz and six other Members of the G.P. Most popular of Galicia, about the repercussions that will have on the conservation and value of Barogna's castle the work of packaging and archaeological consolidation promoted by the Greek Government in that space
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u440	Mr. Santos has the floor to ask his question.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u441	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good afternoon, Counselor. The Councillor for Culture, Education and Universitary ordination, you and your predecessor in particular have been working around the last few years in the conservation, protection, dissemination and research of cultural and archaeological heritage to promote the assets that integrate it. The actions, sections that are carried out in the field of conservation of protected goods are the result of an interdisciplinary and rigorous process, based on research, study and critical reflection on the meaning and context of the past, present and future cultural good, which guarantees the protection, conservation and enrichment of the forward heritage for use and enjoyment of the new generations present and future. Showing this is the rich heritage of what we currently enjoy in Galicia. That's why we're here today to talk about Barogna's castle, one of the most important castles of all our territory, of unparalleled beauty and singularity that resides in the place chosen by its inhabitants to raise their city. Located on a small rocky peninsula of the coast of the parish of San Pedro de Baroña, in the municipal term of Porto do Son, it is one of the most important elements of the archaeological heritage existing in our autonomous community, in addition to a cultural and tourist element of undeniable reference. This coastal castle is considered a highly representative prototypic example within its own typologies, not only because of its geographic situation, but also because of the livelihood of its inhabitants. Thanks to the remains found, you can check your intense relationship with the sea. The remains found in an area of the chest called The Concheiro, so called by the amount of shellfish and shellfish shown, are a clear example of this. You can interpret perfectly how the inhabitants of Baroque castle collected seafood on the beach and cantis and practiced fishing, given the wide variety of remains that were found, such as anzos, tools necessary for fishing activity, as well as spinach and fish vertebrae. For all these reasons, it is one of the most valuable and monumental archeological enclaves in Galicia, besides being one of the most known and visited, so all the heritage action promoted and carried out in its field awakens special interest and results from a great transcendence from the archaeological, scientific, historical and even tourist point of view. The Council of Culture, Education and Universitary Order announced that important tasks of packaging and archaeological consolidation will be carried out during this year in these relevant settlements. For all of the above, what repercussions do you expect for the conservation and value of this important good with the realization of the archaeological conditioning and consolidation works promoted by the Greek Government in the Baroña castle? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u442	Mr. Roman Rodríguez, Councillor for Culture, Education and Universitary Order.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u443	Thank you very much, President. Your Honor, we thank you for your interest in Barogna's castle and the work being done in it. As you well explained, we are facing one of the most straightforward elements of the Greek archaeological heritage and one of the most well-known and recognized settlements of its typology within and outside our borders. His singularity gives him broad social and even symbolic recognition, and the present Union is fully aware of his singularity. So their protection, conservation and recovery from the first moment was an absolute priority as the following facts demonstrate: It was the current government that declared the Baroque castle as BIC, as well of cultural interest, with the archaeological zone category, in 2011. And it was also the current government that in 2010, after fourteen years without archaeological performances on its contour, promoted the study of topographical survey, documentation and current state of Baroña castle. A study that made it possible to know the real state of conservation of the settlement, to thoroughly document its morphology and identify its agents of alteration. A study that is being used as a basis for subsequent actions that have just been promoted in this course since 2011, both by the Junta and by the municipality itself. In order to continue to support this good, the Council began at the end of last year the procedure for the tendering of the contract for air conditioning and archaeological consolidation services in the Baroness district, co-financed with European funds. A competition promoted by the open procedure and with a plurality of criteria, which allowed us to proceed before the end of last year to the hiring of a series of works amounting to EUR 71,890, which aim, in particular, to carry out an archaeological intervention of a preventive nature, intervention directed at the conditioning and consolidation of the structures of the walls of the main area of its northern sector, thereby avoiding the collapse or possible destruction of the structures laid down in previous excavation works. Finally, a new intervention that follows the path of the firm commitment made to this good over the past few years and that we are sure it will effectively impact on the best guarantee of the protection and preservation of this asset that is behind our heritage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u444	Thank you, Counselor. Mr. Santos Pérez's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u445	Thank you very much, President. Counselor, we are very aware of this sensitivity of the Council of Galicia to the Barogna castle. As he well explained in his intervention, it was this joint who was concerned about the BIC declaration of this prototype settlement of the castrex enclaves located on the shore of the sea. The set of defensive structures, home architecture and free urban spaces consists of a laying that gives us highly valuable information about the customs of the social groups who allegedly inhabited this enclave between the fourth centuries before Christ and I after Christ. After so many years without performing archaeological performances in the area, the Galician Union has been performing a series of performances to condition and consolidate this unique enclave. All the neighbors of the town of Noia know the cultural, archaeological and tourist importance of Baroña's castle, and that's why the Town Hall of Son designed a special protection plan for this enclave and thus guarantee its optimal conservation. Last week we could realize, and even so the press echoed, that the original wall of the castle was discovered. Even the archaeologists who have been working on the restoration since 2012 and put in value of this enclave were skeptical of finding great findings. But once again the castle of Barogna surprises those who visit it and could come out in the light a wall that has been hidden for centuries. Although there were signs of the existence of the ancient wall, there were not many hopes of finding them. It became evident that the one who was believed to be the defensive wall, in fact, is a posterior wall, possibly of the Roman era, with which the original one was strengthened. With these important discoveries and the value of this archaeological and landscaping set, which highlights the natural enclave that possesses the tip of the castle, along with the presence on its contour of the leisure area of the beach of Longa Area, a special display of the laying will be possible. It is foreseeable that this will cause an increase in the number of visitors themselves who throughout the year approach the foretaste. For all this, we could...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u446	Thank you very much, Mr. Santos. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Replica from the Councillor for Culture, Education and Universitary Order.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u447	All right. Well, honourable Member, this action that is being promoted this year in the Barogna castle seeks to stimulate the full recovery and the value of this good, and seeks to do it at all levels. Because Barogna's castle is an element of heritage reference in its municipality – as you well said – it is also a catalytic element for its region and throughout Galicia, and we also understand that Barogna's castle is a symbolic element that stimulates the knowledge and external dissemination of our archaeological heritage. In this sense, we must remember that this laying receives a large number of visits, so it is necessary to project an archaeological intervention such as this one, precisely designed to ensure the total security of the good itself and its visitors. And for this it is necessary to undertake the preventive conservation of the northern structure of the wall, in order to prevent possible collapses, and also to prevent possible structural or personal damage of any kind that could occur. With regard to the specific works to be carried out, these have for the purpose, first, to define the original wall by means of archaeological surveys; second, to leave to the sight of the entire outer wall in the north by means of an external excavation; and third, and finally, to consolidate its structure. These are works that will undoubtedly help to improve their reading, interpretation, protection and conservation. Finally, important works that began last day 13 which are in full execution and which are already offering very interesting information about the constructive evolution of this settlement, and which is expected, by the way, to end in a few months. At this point, excavations are being carried out through archaeological surveys that are offering very revealing findings, allowing you to discover what the original wall is. Work to be followed by new phases of excavation and finally consolidation. To conclude, Mr President, remember that this action is within the framework of the priority effort that the current Government has just made in order to ensure that our rich archaeological heritage is built up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u448	Thank you. Question from Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo and D. Cosme Eladio Pombo Rodríguez, from G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the predictions of the Galician Union regarding the modification of the current schedule of the Integrated Public College of the Tens, in Kings, in order to comply with the applicable legality and facilitate the reconciliation of family and work life
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u449	You have the floor, Mrs. Pontón, to ask your question.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u450	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Counselor, parents and mothers at the school of the Tenies. I wanted to start today with a quote from one of my former favorite presidents, Mr. Mújica, who said, "Let's invest, first, in education; second, in education; third, in education. Because an educated people have better choices in life and it's very hard for corrupt and liars to cheat on them." In Galicia President Feijóo applies just the opposite. So, since he ruled, what he did in education was first, to cut into education; second, to cut into education; and third, to cut into education. But they not only cut short, Counselor, but they're making an absolutely inefficient and despotic management. But they ask their mothers and parents at the school of the Dices, in Kings, whom you don't seem to have time to meet with them. And you know perfectly well, Counselor, that they've been claiming something as simple as a schedule that meets the law, that meets the rules that the Government itself has approved. They demand, Counselor, a legal schedule, that their children and their daughters have a schedule like the rest. They demand equality for rural children, who also have rights and must not be clearly discriminated against. They demand that their sons and daughters who are entitled to the dining room have not three days but five days a week. They demand that those children who are going to eat in their home when it rains, which is often in this country, not have to choose between eating or changing their clothes, because it will understand that a little child in twenty minutes is not possible to do all this. They therefore demand that their children have the same opportunities and rational schedules. We understand, Counselor, that this is a fair and logical claim. You also know that your secretary-general recognized in this commission that that schedule is not the right one; he recognized that schedule is an issue of exceptionality and that it is not the best from a pedagogical point of view, from a point of view of reconciling work and family life. But why is this happening, Counselor? I think it's because you don't want to listen, because you don't want to look for solutions and also because you're subject to a comfortable policy that favours the interests of transport companies above education. And we believe, Counselor, that this cannot be tolerated. There are solutions, only if we need political will. Look, those parents and mothers are worthy to defend, because they've been closed for many days, twenty-two days, defending their children's right to education; because there was a strike where 64% of the children didn't come to the class, and you didn't have time to pick up your phone. He meets with them and presents a solution, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u451	Thank you very much, Mrs. Pontón. Mr. Román Rodríguez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u452	Mrs. Pontón, Mr. Mújica is right, we must invest in education, but also in well-being, also in culture, also in health, also in infrastructure, and this is what Junta is doing. Look, I also add to the words of welcome to this Parliament to the ANPA San Isidro, to the parents who accompany us here. And I want to say, just like last week, because you have already appeared in this Parliament, in particular in the 4th Commission, the Secretary-General, and you want to make and reaffirm a number of issues that have been said and I think it is important that they be repeated. First, and go ahead, that the Council does not seek any kind of confrontation with anyone; the Council analyses situations and cases, and does so in search of the best possible solutions, both from the point of view of the educational organization and from the point of view of conciliation for families. And, look, we must all be aware of things and what we say. The Council has already said this here in this Parliament, that the ECIP of the Tens, in Kings, is not illegal, because it was agreed and authorized at the request of the school itself in 2001, fifteen years ago. We are, yes, at an exceptional time, but which has the corresponding authorization, according to a regulated administrative procedure; it is an exceptional time which has been in force for fifteen years. What has happened since then, what leads us to today's situation, why does this question arise, this debate just now and not, for example, at the beginning of the course, or why not at the end of the past course? The truth is, we don't know, what we do know is that since this problem arises, the Counsellor's problem is to offer them dialogue, to try to reconcile the situation of this school with that of a neighboring school, Dodro's Eusebio Lorenzo, to make school transport compatible under an optical stream of rationalization of public resources. Different timetable changes have been proposed here that have not been accepted by the educational community. And obviously the ANPA San Isidro poses a situation and demands, but not all parents agree with these demands, as you, Madam, know perfectly well. The territorial chief – and when I say territorial chief, who is a part of the Council, speaks for the Council – met with the ANPA, met with the parents, met with the mayor, and there is no uniform vision about what to do in that center, because there are conflicting visions: some parents ask for a change of schedule, other parents prefer to keep as they are. What we've been thinking from the very first moment is dialogue, but dialogue without postures at all times. And if we keep a numantine stance, it'll make it hard for them to come up with solutions.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u453	Thank you very much, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u454	In any case, what we're considering from the Council is always dialogue and the search for solutions.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u455	Thank you very much. Replica, Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u456	Counsellor, this is a problem that, in fact, has been on the table for 15 years, and parents have been on the table for a long time, not now - well-informed - demanding a change of schedule. In fact, in his council in summer, these people made a lot of mobilizations in front of the Galician Union and they didn't take care of them. And now what they're claiming is that this schedule, which was a temporary schedule for a problem that there was, does not become perpetual, because it's a problem for these children. And I think we have to worry about what education children have in this country, because it's the best investment we can make, and because we can't afford to discriminate against children in rural areas, which is clearly what's going on here. Look, the territorial chief said the decision now depends on the board, which does not depend on him, which depends on the advisor. So don't throw balloons out, it's up to you. And you, if you had political will, could solve it. Look, there's a very clear example: I sold it – next door, in the Milladoiro –. They didn't want to change their schedule, it was enough that as there was a mayor of the People's Party who didn't have a majority and the opposition told him that he would withdraw his salary if the problem wasn't solved, and the week in Galicia's Union authorized the change of hours, what a chance! But here, Counselor, there are other alternatives, and don't try to confront them with the educational community of another center. College of Bembibre, they say they can do without three buses if there's a change of days, those three buses that could solve the problem of the people of Kings. Why haven't you studied alternatives since June, why do you shut your ears and don't you want to understand that there are parents and mothers who only care about their children's education? Look, there's a representation of ANPA here today, why don't you talk to them? They're citizens of this country who have the right to be heard by the Education Counsellor and call them. Do it and you will honor it, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u457	Thank you very much, Mrs. Pontón. Mr. Román Rodríguez's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u458	Mr. Pontón, the head of the Territory is part of the Education Council, part of the administrative structure of the Council for Education and the Council of Galicia, which has its responsibilities and powers. And when the territorial chief is at a meeting with parents, with mayors, with the educational community, he's talking about the German Government and he's talking about the corresponding councillor. And now you don't try here to put what the territorial chief says or what he stops saying, the territorial chief is the educational administration. [[Murmurs.]] Look, as far as you're concerned, we're on a schedule that's been working in this situation for 15 years, which has been authorized to request specifically from the school itself; that's something that's in that respect. And what you are raising in this debate, in this question, with an intention of unanimity on the part of the parents and on the part of the families of this school, is not true. Because just like there's an ANPA that says you want to change your school schedule, there's another group of parents who are also organized into another ANPA that say they don't. [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And there's a consistent data, a data that I think leaves little room for doubt. See, in the second half of the year 2014, ANPA sent out some results of a survey done to parents and mothers to change the schedule. In this survey, the total percentage of families voting in favour of time change is 42%, of all families in the centre. So the provisions of point 2 (b)(4) of the Order of 29 May 2008 which require an agreement in favour of the absolute majority of the total census of families in the centre are not met. [[Murmurs.]] And I insist: there is another group of parents and mothers who do not share the proposal made of time change. With which we respect, of course, the requests of the parents and mothers who want to modify their schedules, we respect them. Another thing is that we share it or we can implement it in view of the efficient management of resources and the need that the Administration has to have an integral view of the whole system and the entire educational process. In any case, as I said, we are open to every kind of dialogue, there is no problem. Now, you have to be careful, you don't have to make positions of force, you don't have to go to finished facts -- as you put me here -- you have to have flexibility, you have to listen to the parts. And, in any case, we are told – and you call me Educational Administration – that the mayor has all the possibility, just like the territorial head, they have every chance to talk, to negotiate – and they are doing it – with the different families in this case that are in the middle of the Tens. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u459	Thank you very much, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u460	When there is consensus in that centre, action can be taken. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u461	Thank you very much, Counselor. Ms. Da María Montserrat Prado Cores, G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the actions carried out by the Government of Greece in relation to the labour situation of the workers of the subcontracts of telecommunications companies, in particular Telefónica, in Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u462	You have the floor, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u463	Good afternoon. First of all, I would like to welcome the representation of the workers in the rostrum and those who are following us in a room in this Parliament. And very late, Counselor. First of all, I would like to welcome the representation of the workers in the rostrum and those who are following us in a room in this Parliament. And very late, Counselor. About a thousand workers and workers from all the contracts and subcontracts of Telefónica Movistar in Galicia have been on strike since last day 14, for fifteen days on strike. They are on strike for first of all to require compliance with the implementing agreements in the sector; secondly, to limit chain subcontracts to the first grade of recruitment; thirdly, the subrogation of workers between the service concessionary companies; and fourthly, to ensure occupational health and risk prevention. Fifteen days off, Mrs. Mato, claiming that it will end with the abusive working conditions they are suffering from. Conditions Telefónica had and still intends to worsen even more than the new standard she wants to apply to her contracts, with the cost cuts she imposes on her contracts. The workers demand of you, of your council, that you involve yourself, Mrs. Mato, in the face of the continuing aggression on your labour rights. They demand that they get involved because they've been halting the constant degradation of their working conditions, years of low wages, because of a perverse chain subcontracting system, an infamous point-wages system, Mrs. Mato, driven by the multinational telephone. So at the end of the month, you have to reach the points corresponding to the goals that mark the company. If they don't get them, they're penalized. When a month doesn't achieve that minimum output due to displacement, because of damage, you reduce those amounts to them the following month. Workers who are required to travel throughout the territory with 11 and 12 hours a day, in many cases included weekends. Workers who see how every new subcontract is left with part of their work in order to obtain benefits. If the first contract pays them seven points for damage, the next one pays them five points for the same job. I mean, they keep that part of their sweat for benefits. Workers who are fired and then hired as false autonomouss. Workers who at best charge EUR 1,100 in the first contract, after working days and hours over the agreement, and which the following subcontracts charge EUR 800 and 600, of which they have to deduct penalties in many cases of EUR 150 or more. Workers who pay under the legal salary and who have to pay the gas oil and the lunch from their pocket. Mrs. Mato, get involved and tell the workers up there and those in...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u464	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u465	The work and well-being advisor, Mrs. Beatriz Mato, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u466	Thank you very much, President. Mrs. Prado, the involvement of this board as a whole, of course, is absolutely complete in everything that has to do with defending and fulfilling the labor rights of our workers in our community. That implication is absolute, and for this, of course, we take forward our main tool and our mechanisms, which are none other than working with the Labour Inspectorate, which is the one who has the obligation and competence to carry out the inspections in relation to the fulfilment of all possible non-compliances that you mentioned in your intervention. The first communication that the Labour Council has on this subject, Mrs Prado, is a communication from the IGC, which brought us here on April 22, i.e. just a week ago, in which we ask not to send the subject to the Labour Inspectorate, but simply a mediation between the workers and the companies. Well, of course, before a more ambiguous and no concrete writing, with no concrete denunciation, what this council did was immediately, just a day later, i.e. on the 23rd day, to immediately address a letter to the Labour Inspectorate, so that the Labour Inspectorate can actually find out if there are any of these possible irregularities you were talking about in connection with the breach of the agreement, which, as you know, not only regulates the schedule, but also salary increases. Obviously, for us that is our main mechanism, it is the main mechanism we have to fight against the fraud that may be in compliance with labour law. And of course, I'm also very clear that very little to talk to companies that are non-compliant. So now the most important thing is, of course, to find out if, in fact, all these possible failures of what you mentioned in relation to...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u467	Mrs. Martínez!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u468	...if you can... How many people are intervening?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u469	Sorry, Counselor. You have the floor, please continue. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u470	Thank you very much. So, what we are now, of course, is using our mechanisms to actually confirm that through the Labour Inspectorate if there are these supposed irregularities. And then, of course, this council, in this implication that you ask for, is willing to dialogue where there is a need for these powers that we can have from the Autonomic Administration and as a community if mediation is needed. But not to speak, of course, of failure to comply with an agreement, because that is not half-hearted, not a dialogue, that is a requirement and an obligation, and as such, the Labour Inspectorate will, of course, answer. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u471	Mrs. Prado Cores' reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u472	And what was that implication, Counselor? Unfulfilling companies that do jobs for companies that you, your government, are dedicating to a large amount of public resources. You're the only one who did, your counsellor, was to vote balloons out, to say you can't mediate about possible legal breaches. Look, you have legal resources and you have political resources to act, whenever you want to exercise Galician government and not corporate delegate. Look, Telephonic got some benefits in 2014 close to four billion euros. Benefits achieved, to a large extent, at the expense of the sweat of workers and workers, and, elsewhere, the basis of public resources. And you know that very well. You have the legal and moral obligation to act, Mrs. Mato, to intervene, to put a stop to this infamous work situation, to put a stop to this perverse system of contracts that has created a network of subcontracts and false autonomouss. Once upon a time, Madam Counselor, on the side of the workers and not the exploiters, he exercises as a government of the Greeks and the Greeks. For once, be the worker advisor, not the company delegate. Don't you think your claims are fair? Would you accept for yourself those working conditions and the wages that these workers have, Mrs Mato? Do for once what is your obligation: call the strike committee, average between companies and workers. You can't continue to give public resources to companies that have this infamous behavior. You can't continue to allow shareholders and banks behind Telefónica to have millions of incomes, while condemning slavery to workers and workers. We have a representation there in the gallery, Mrs. Mato, have the courage to commit to them. I have the courage to tell you that you're going to stand by your side and that you're going to exercise as a work advisor, that you're not going to exercise any more as a business delegate. Compromise...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u473	Thank you very much, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u474	The work and well-being advisor has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u475	Thank you very much, President. I am, of course, the counsellor of the Greeks and the Greeks, especially in the protection of the labour rights of our workers, and I have been fulfilling my duties since minute one. You were talking about what my involvement was and what I did. I told you a week ago, on the 22nd day, the writing of the IGC arrived... [[Mrs. Prado Cores speaks words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u476	Mrs. Prado! Mrs. Prado! [[Mrs. Prado Cores speaks words that are not perceived.]] Mrs. Prado, you have a call to order. Mrs. Prado, you don't have the word, you asked and now the advisor answers. Please! Well, you have a call to order, in case you didn't hear it. Continue, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u477	The first communication that the Labour Council has is through this writing that makes the IGC a week ago, and that the next day this communication was transferred immediately to the Labour Inspectorate, so that it would take the relevant actions that would obviously ensure compliance with the current legislation. And even on that same day, we also gave an answer to the IGC union, which was what this writing did, to give you accurate information on the steps we were going to take as a labor authority, precisely in ensuring compliance with the current legislation, which is through the Labour Inspection. And even this very same week, the territorial chief of the Labour Inspectorate held a meeting with the IGC union to accomplish even more, if possible, the actions that since the Inspection must be done and carried forward, since the complaint, which in this case is not even a complaint, was not concrete enough, was very ambiguous, and the Inspection had to carry out what were the actions and the steps it was going to take. I think it's a sufficiently suitable answer not only in forms but also in time, because we're talking about communication coming on the 22nd. Anyway, if it's true that this communication reaches the General Directorate of Labour, this communication that makes the IGC could also and should have arrived at the Labour Inspectorate, since all the Greeks, and the workers know it, that any breach of labour law can be denounced even anonymously before the Labour Inspectorate. And today there is no complaint before the Specific Labour Inspectorate on this subject. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] However, Mrs. Prado, this council is willing to mediate at all tables where, of course, his presence is demanded. The demand for his presence must be two, because they are companies and workers. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Mediation is between two... [[Protests.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u478	Quiet, please! Mrs. Martínez, do you have any?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u479	...and what is not worth is to disturb with a supposed mediation of competition in which the Autonomous Community has nothing to say about it, because there is already an open table in the state. It's not the Galician Union or any autonomous community that is competent to limit subcontracting, nor is it the Galician Union competent to make the subrogation recognized, and you know it. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And there's a table in Madrid for dialogue... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u480	Thank you very much, Counselor. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Question by Da María Soledad Soneira Tajes and three other Members of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the criteria followed by the Junta of Galicia for the provision of social equipment for the population of the different territories of Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u481	Mrs. Soneira has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u482	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs. Mato, the Corcubion Council, for years and gathering resources from all administrations, including its own, of course, and instead of intended to hang torches and throw asphalt streams, decided, after studying the demographic map of its municipality, to rehabilitate two buildings for several years to convert them into a day center. They did the works, invested the money, and it turns out that this arrived Montoro and ordered him to stop. Because you know that in 2013 you took out of the joke the rationalization and sustainability of the local administration, the law that prevents municipalities of less than 5,000 inhabitants from managing these kinds of public services. The Council of Corcubion, through its mayor, interviewed from that moment until three times – I have been counted here – with the Galician Consortium of Social Services, with its secretary of Social Policy and other offices of its council. And their claim was very simple: we can't manage it, the facilities are made, they meet all the legal requirements, it's a necessity and we're in a geographic area of strong population density and that the service is also needed. Here you have to say, ladies and gentlemen, for whom you don't know, that we're talking about Corcubion and Cee, that you get into a certain street and it turns out that one side of that street is Cee and the other side is Corcubion, that is, it's a single urban contour. And always the Council of Galicia, its advisor, always said that there were no resources, that had to be prioritized, you had to rationalize, to see if we have resources for the future, we don't flout it, we'll see it, and, of course, it seems reasonable from his point of view. But a few weeks ago, Mrs. Counsellor sat down with the mayor of Cee and Mrs. Beatriz Mato announces -- she's hanging on her advisor's page -- "The Board plans to incorporate a day centre into Cee in its next year's social services planning." I mean, new construction. This question has nothing to do with a daytime center in Cee, which also needs it, because it's a municipality with more inhabitants. But the question, Counsellor is, why does a council that offers the Consortium some facilities that can be opened tomorrow, if you want, for that there are no resources, and to make a new one next to them? I'd like to know what the criteria for planning social services are.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u483	Thank you, Mrs. Soneira. The work and well-being advisor, Mrs. Beatriz Mato, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u484	Thank you very much. Mrs. Soneira, we are going to start this intervention at least by pointing out one of the statements that you have made and which obviously does not correspond to the legal reality we have in our community, because you strongly say that there is an effective legislation for the municipalities of less than 5,000 inhabitants, which say that infrastructures cannot be handled in this case as a day centre. It is absolutely false, since, together with the prevailing legislation in our community, after that of Montoro, of course, related to the local administration, the powers continue to be exactly the same, even if we have transferred to the Fegamp a report from the Juridical Counsel for the tranquility of all the city council officials and secretaries so that they can continue to develop their functions, until that future Local Administration Law comes into force. And so it's not true that the Corcubion Town Hall can't take the project forward, open it and even keep it. So it is, Mrs. Soneira, that, by setting an example to you, the day center of Lousame, recently opened, of just a year ago, is a municipal day center, it is not a municipality that exceeds the 5,000 inhabitants and, of course, it is complying with the current legislation and its own and private decision and that it was exclusively to carry forward an infrastructure like this. Obviously, the Corcubion Town Hall is true that it made a decision to make an investment in the historical helmet, which you know very well from two buildings. He made a reform and from our point of view this reform, although it can provide a service to the elders, it is not the proper building to lend itself in one day center the attention that requires a day center, since, to begin with – I say that he knows it very well – he doesn't even have an outdoor space so that the older ones can get out of the air. I mean, it's two historic buildings rehabilitated. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] However, since you want to know how we do planning, the planning of infrastructures in day centers made it to the University of Santiago. And indeed, it demands an area like the Costa da Morte area, in the area of the Fistra district, the need to have a day center, as we have done elsewhere in Galicia, putting into operation thirty-four new day centers, which have responded to about one thousand sixty new squares. We, the difference between others, do not move with independentist criteria and, of course, we move with criteria based on that map that exists, which has already been published and in which it says that there will be, needs and a day centre that will pay attention to it. But a perfect day center, so it doesn't have to happen, Mrs. Soneira, what happened with Carnota's day center, which was a center...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u485	Thank you very much, Counselor. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u486	Okay. I'll continue later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u487	Mrs. Soneira Tajes' reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u488	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs. Mato, don't I know if you recognize yourself in this picture? Yes, and Mrs. Belén do Campo. [[Pause.]] This lady here has no institutional charge, she's the candidate of the People's Party in Cariño, and she's not even a conciliator. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And, of course, Mrs Mato always moves on strictly institutional matters. And he doesn't mind saying anything. I recognize the value because, of course, it turns out that Corcubion's day center does not meet the minimum requirements, although it is done in accordance with Decree 243/1992 of 25 July of social services centres. By the way, whose project, like everyone else, has to be seen by the technicians of his counseling, if not authorized, Counsellor. But, of course, do you know what the fundamental question is? There's got to be a day center in Fisterra, but it's got to be where the People's Party governs, you know? Similarly, they receive and commit actions with public resources to a candidate from an electoral list, from a democratic, legal party, who is presented to the elections, but who is no one but a candidate, like any candidate from any list in the more than 300 municipalities of Galicia. Because that's the criterion, Counselor. And it's a settled principle not only for you and your council, but for the president of the board himself and this government to give institutional rank to a candidate lady in the first city of Galicia, like Vigo, who has no institutional representation and who, however, you present her as if it were because we don't know what, we don't know what. [[Murmurs.]] So, we know what the criterion is, we're all the same, but the PP ones...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u489	Thank you very much, Mrs. Soneira.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u490	...are more equal than the others.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u491	Thank you very much. Mrs. Mato Otero's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u492	I can't assure you, Your Honor, that you have an interview request from the Mayor of Cariño; what I remember, of course, is not; and somehow someone from Cariño has to bring to the Government of the Union what are the demands. And, of course, I am willing to speak to anyone, whether the spokesperson or not to know the demands of dear. That's the first of all. [[Applause]] The second, Your Honor, what I am clear is that this government is strictly doing things. I'm telling you, there's already a planned study of residential infrastructures and even day-to-day centre infrastructures, where we actually need good facilities. I told him that what this government is not going to do is do a work like the one Mr. Quintana did in Carnota, in an absolutely impractical building, which had three heights, where the lords were scattered at the three heights, and that we had to close at the same time as we could open the day centre of Walls to give quality attention to our elders. And we understand that, although architecturally, Mrs. Soneira, the building obviously buys, of course, we understand that it was not the right thing to pay attention to the day-to-day center that is needed there. And I'm going to tell you one thing, Mrs. Soneira: it's not that she pays attention to the councils of the People's Government or the Socialist Party, because, as you know very well, there are day centers in all the municipalities; thirty-four in particular are new and are of different colors. What this government won't do is be disloyal to the municipalities and it won't practice what it's used to practicing its political party, which has the holy habit of making infrastructures and then leaving them to others to keep them. They used to buy a car and then tell the Galician board, give me the gas I have to take people. And, of course, that's not the strict functioning that the Greeks and the Greeks demand of a serious administration. An administration would be what you have to count... by the way, not because of institutional loyalty, is that the local administration law says so. The Local Administration Act states that any administration, deputies and council, which intends to carry forward social infrastructures, especially those of a supra-municipal nature, must inform, by obligation, inform to see them fit in the planning of the Galician Union. And this Galician board didn't have the initial report before the Corcubion's work began, as it doesn't have it in the multiple residences that are being done in the Lugo Deputy. And one thing is certain: any administration, be council, be deputy, have the ability to do, and even do so has the obligation, because it does, to keep it, because it can, because it's their competence. What's not good at all is doing it like this and then saying they want the collaboration of the Union. However, the board will be, Mrs. Soneira, for your tranquility, will also be in Corcubion, Mrs. Soneira, because there is another tool to be developed, which is the help of self-propelled...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u493	Thank you very much, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u494	...that we want to develop them in Corcubion.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-04-29-DSPG107.u495	Thank you very much. The agenda is run out, the session is up. Good night, thank you very much.
