ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u1	Let's restart the session. Before we begin with point 6 of questions to answer the President of the Council of Galicia, today we remember the tenth anniversary of a sad event for all. So I pray for a minute of silence in memory of the victims of the terrorist attack on 11 March.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u2	Thank you very much. So we begin the development of the agenda, with the next question. He asked Mr. President of the Galician Council of Mr. José Luis Méndez Romeu of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the evaluation of the economic results of the year 2014
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u3	You have the word, to ask your question, Mr. José Luis Méndez Romeo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u4	Thank you very much, President. Mr. President, I suppose you know this book; it's a recent publication and it talks about you. The author, a well-known journalist, Fernando Onega, explains how, shortly after taking office of the presidency, you were made aware of the situation of the Welsh boxes through the highest representatives of the state. And with that information, you have commissioned an ad hoc report to convince this Parliament that fusion was the only possible solution. Shortly thereafter, the resulting entity was intervened by the State, capitalised with EUR 10 billion and with assets transferred to Sareb, and was subsequently sold with losses of EUR 9 billion of public funds. The buyer, preeminent with 2,200 million tax credits, originally paid 400 million to earn 1,100 in the first year. Conclusions: a sagaz buyer, a torpedoes seller, an irresponsible president of the board. Surely many entrepreneurs sigh for similar help, and of course, if that entity had been sold later, or even today or in the near future, public interest would be much more beneficial. This group denounced at the time what was a bad performance for the public interest. We still don't know a formal and documented explanation of what's happened. The FROB refused to go to Parliament and report directly and the Board paralysed the investigation commission, preventing, for example, any action that might have been taken to the Prosecutor's Office. You've come to defend the viability of the merger of the boxes, and your galeguity, defending the sale to the foreign capital, passing through the massive deception to a lot of Greek investors, who thought you had a serious commitment. I understand that I had to dispense with Counsellor Curras, the same one who refused to come to Parliament to give explanations and who is now explaining it is not well known that new production model. You're not as reliable as a maggot. A year ago in this House you predicted a growth that actually was half as much as you've announced, a point less than the Spanish average. Mr. Feijóo, when he makes noises, is he deliberately wrong?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u5	Thank you, Mr. Méndez Romeo. The President of the Board has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u6	Thank you very much, Madam President. As you will see, the questions change depending on the time they are formulated, because I had, with great pleasure, prepared the answer to the BNG about the situation of the boxes and their becoming, and had a prepared answer to the Socialist Party, which I think knows the regulation, about the economic results of the year 14. Maybe the BNG tells me about the economic results of the 14th and you answer about the box situation. I would like to, Mr. Méndez Romeo, who for a moment had asked me something concrete. But, finally, as you ask – depending on the moment – I am surprised that I took, to begin his intervention, Mr. Onega's book, where it is clearly believed that, indeed, the first news about the situation of the Greek boxes had it through his Majesty the King. Which you, who were part of the transfer commission between the two-party government and this government, had not said anything about the situation of the savings boxes and had to bury me in Madrid, in the palace of Zarzuela. It's amazing, Mr. Méndez Romeo. [[Applause]] It's amazing that, with so much irresponsibility when you were in the government, and so much irresponsibility when you intend to be a spokesman for the opposition, talk about the safes without any noise. The Spanish Socialist Workers' Party in Galicia has tried, from the outset, that the Greeks had no financial entity based in Galicia. That was his objective, of course and precise. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Between the majority group and the BNG we approved a Savings Box Law, without looking at other autonomous communities, including Andalusia, and what did the Socialist Labour Party do in the opposition and in the Government in Madrid? Go for it. And what did the Constitutional Court do accordingly? Hang on. And what has the Constitutional Court just done? To say that law was right. And so once again, it was found that you were torpedoing the possibility that Galicia had a solvency financial entity that was rooted in the autonomous community. Your Honor, you drew thousands of beams on the street in Vigo who believed in good faith that we had no interest... in the boxes, deceived all those good faith beams who went out of the street, deceived the 4,500 workers... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u7	Mr. Gallego!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u8	...of the savings boxes and tricked all the depositors...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u9	Mr. Gallego, you have a call to order.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u10	...and all the Greeks who had the savings in those boxes. And that's why I'm surprised now that you're telling me, now it turns out that the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party is the defender of the box managers. And now it turns out...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u11	It's over, president.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u12	...that the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party in Galicia tells me why in Galicia there is a bank entity domiciled in Galicia that keeps 4,500 jobs and still earns money.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u13	Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u14	Mr. Méndez Romeo, your intervention must be clearly recorded in this Journal of Sessions. Thank you very much, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u15	Mr. Méndez Romeo's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u16	I suppose he had the same temptation as Mr. Rajoy, but he didn't dare get at the dequalification so far. [[Murmurs.]] You do have a problem in Vigo, you do have a mistake problem in Vigo, reiterated, in addition, not only with the Box. Mr. Feijóo, you said Galicia would lead the Spanish recovery. In fact, the third worst behavior of the seventeen communities in the year 14. Last summer, here, Counselor Muñoz raised the forecast of growth by three tenths. The reality was a third of the forecast. I understand it had been stopped and sent to that ostracism. Mr. Feijóo, your speech of satisfaction is inescapable. There are few dates, no less than Mr Juncker, President of the European Union, said that we cannot talk about recovery and end the crisis with these unemployment figures. He's realistic, you're unreal, you're living in a fake world. In 2014, the Greek economy had a negative growth in agriculture and construction, and in the industry it was also negative, with Spain's greatest retreat. Only in services is there a minimal tendency, and for that, with the most remarkable exception of trade, which is also negative. Trade balance, in terms of GDP, negative; foreign trade, backward; trade with the rest of Spain, backwards; foreign investment in Galicia, in symbolic figures, unless you call it internationalization to the systematic sale of reference companies. The differential with Spain increases. You've been without initiative for two years, paying attention to other interests. Will you continue to be a president and serving only your own self-governing master?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u17	Thank you, Mr. Méndez Romeo. The President of the Board has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u18	Thank you very much, Madam President. I am grateful that I have two possibilities for two questions raised by the Socialist Party: the first, in the first round, and a totally different question in the second round. Mr. Méndez Romeo, for now in Vigo the People's Party wins the elections. I regret that the Socialist Party has constantly lost them. What I'm telling you, Your Honor, is that one of the biggest deceptions in Vigo in recent years has been rightly sponsored by the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party: to say that everything was right in the financial entity located in Vigo and then, for example, to say that Vigo's public hospital is private. [[Applause]] But, as people already know, they know perfectly well the 4,500 workers in Abanca who have jobs, despite the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party, they know perfectly well, because the hospital theme will know from this second semester of this year, when they come to the hospital and remember that the Socialist Party said it was private and they had to pay to go to that hospital. They'll check that the Socialist Party is wrong... [[Madam Acuña Docampo speaks words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u19	Mrs. Hide, you have a call to order.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u20	...on a continuous basis, in Vigo, and, unfortunately, in most cities of Spain. [[Applause]] But, Your Honor, what I'm telling you is that at last we have started a debate on the growth of the Greek economy, and what is very clear is that the Greek economy has been growing for the first time since 2010. You will remember when I was in the Government that, in addition to not informing me about the cash situation, they left the Greek economy with a 3.4% decrease. Well, in the face of the declines we've experienced, we've now begun economic growth. Your Honor, I am sorry that you do not say that during the whole period of this government, during five years of economic recession, the Greek economy has behaved better than the average of the Spanish economy. And in fact, every year we're down less, we've had less economic downturn than the rest of Spain. I'm sorry I didn't say so. And I'm also sorry that you don't say, for example, that employment, which is the clear effect of the economy, that employment in Galicia is acting better than in the rest of Spain; that unemployment in Galicia is 8% unemployed and in Spain 6% unemployed, and that social security affiliations have increased by 15,000 last year. Do we have less unemployment than last year? Yes. And less than two years ago? Yes. And less unemployed than three years ago? Yes. And we have more social security affiliations? You too. That is why I am surprised, Your Honor, that you do not say that consumption is being recovered, that gross capital formation is being recovered, that exports are being recovered, that services are being recovered, that we have recovered the primary sector. And where do we have a problem? We've detected it: in the industry. And it's true that in the automotive sector, while Spain grows by 8.5%, Galicia has decreased by 1%. And in the naval sector, while we're making contracts...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u21	Go finish, President, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u22	...and we don't start making boats, that doesn't matter in GDP. [[Murmurs.]] What you don't say, Your Honor, what you don't say is that the Galician Union has fulfilled its duties, and that at the moment PSA Peugeot Citroën has a commitment of 600 million investments in Galicia and Vigo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u23	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u24	That is why, Your Honor, I am grateful that for the first time in this Parliament you accept that the Greek economy is growing. Thank you very much, Your Honor. [[Applause]] Ask Mr. President of the Galician Council of D. Francisco Jesus Jorquera Caselas, of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the assumption of responsibilities for the defense of the sale of Novagalicia Banco
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u25	You have the word, Mr. Jorquera, to ask your question.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u26	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Feijóo, I would like to know what your sources are, because official data indicate that GDP has grown in Spain by 1.4% in 2014, and in Galicia by 0.4, less than half of the forecasted by its government. Look, I don't blame him, because error is human. In fact, the Government you preside over is so humane that it has been in complete error for five consecutive years. Look, but jokes aside, that's the result of your policies, policies at the service of your friendly companies, at the cost of ruining this country. A year ago, from this same rostrum, he accused him of promoting Galicia's sale on plots. I'll do it again today, Mr. Feijó. Look, the Supreme Court ruled that the Water Plan of the Fraga Government, to which you belonged, was null and void. But you preferred that Junta didn't respond to Pescanova's claims, even though it cost the public era the money of all, more than a million euros. Almost a year ago we criticized the sale, the price of the bargain, encouraged by you, from Barreras to Pemex. We warned that Pemex was transferring technology to Mexico, transferring technological knowledge from Barriers. A year later, Pemex announced that he would remove the work load from Barreras. Another great success of your policies, Mr Feijóo, and another great success of your travels. Every time you go to South America, it's to start shaking. Because you also encouraged the sale of Novagalicia Banco to a Venezuelan bank. A year ago we warned from this forum of the consequences that this sale and privatization process would have for Galicia. And now we know the results: a real ballast. In one year, Abanca's profits exceed the official purchase price. And it turns out, for you, it was a sin to turn Abanca into a Greek public bank, but, on the other hand, he didn't notice that a Venezuelan banker did the business of the century at the cost of looting the public archives. And you have a very bad memory, Mr Feijóo, because the cash law passed by this Parliament was soon denaturalized, the result of a reform agreed between the People's Party and the Socialist Party and the result of reforms committed in the state to favor the privatization and banking of the boxes. And look, and the consequence is that, in the meantime, Galicia is in line with the credit award. Since 2009, the credit granted in relation to deposits held by the banks in Galicia has fallen by 41%. Since 2009, the weight of our credit on the total of what is granted in the state has fallen by 20%. The credit granted in Galicia already represents only half of what we would want according to our population. Data about the policy of our savings. That's why, Mr. Feijóo, will you assume your responsibilities...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u27	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u28	...to defend a sale from Newgaly Ruin Bank to Galicia?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u29	Thank you, Mr. Jorquera. The President of the Board has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u30	Madam President. I'm informed that there are students of Mexican origin in Parliament. You are interested in speaking ill of Mexico and its public companies. Yes. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And he has the constant interest in slandering Pemex and saying that Pemex comes to do business here and that he comes to fulfill his commitments. [[Protests.]] I'm sorry for you, Your Honor. If it were for you, I know there wouldn't be any Mexican oil ship doing it in Galicia. You mean, therefore, Your Honor, that the fleets that are being done, after constantly denying it, especially the Socialist Party, I'm sorry that you are now pointing. Those fleets are being made. Ask Armon the trailers they're doing, the engaged ones. Ask Freire what ships they're doing. [[Murmurs.]] Now, if you want to keep insisting that Pemex not fulfill the commitments he's making in Galicia, there you and your responsibility. Just like the responsibility I'm charged with on the buyer of the old savings boxes. Look, Your Honor, the position of the Union, of this government has always been clear. We wanted to maintain in Galicia a stable financial entity linked to the Autonomous Community, solvent and socially committed. That was the engagement. And the winning offer on the FROB auction, for us the best offer, would be the one that fulfilled those commitments: the commitment to maintain employment, the commitment to keep most of the office network, the commitment to social work, the commitment to keep the companies that previously worked for the boxes that kept their jobs in Galicia, the ultimate commitment to more than 4,500 workers and much of the savings in Greece. The offer that earned the auction met those requirements, and you're trying to transfer that I helped whom, Your Honor. You know perfectly well that the banking of the boxes was a proposal by the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party, that the merger of the boxes was authorized by the Banco de España with a governor of the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party and that the intervention took place ninety days after authorising the merger by the same government. And it turns out, Your Honor, that now we're guilty? Are we guilty, Your Honor, that there is a financial entity in Galicia? [[Murmurs.]] Are we guilty, Your Honor, that the purchase proposal was superior in more than twice as many other proposals from other Spanish or foreign banks? What are we accused of, Your Honor? Perhaps we are accused of defending, above all criticism, a coherence that, if possible, a financial entity in Galicia – as it is maintained – with more than 4,500 direct jobs, with more than 1,000 indirect jobs? Your Honor, what are we accused of? Now you're accused of profiting that financial entity. Look, Your Honor, the results we know...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u31	Go finish, President, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u32	...there is an important part, more than 500 million tax credits – they are not profits – and another part of 400 million capital gains generated by the sale of financial assets. So the banking business is far below those figures that you say, according to the data...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u33	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u34	...which has just established the bank itself. Look, Your Honor, let's defend Galicia first, we're still defending Galicia now and I'm sorry that you sometimes don't defend Galicia...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u35	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u36	...but other interests. Thank you very much, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u37	Mr. Jorquera Caselas' reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u38	Mr. Feijóo, we have nothing against Mexico, what we have is something against you as Pemex's delegate. [[Applause]] Look, you come to this Parliament, so I see, just like Argentina, campaigning. Pemex, 21 promised boats, 2 assisted. That's the reality. Stop selling smoke. But let's talk about Abanca. I'll tell you what we accused him of. Do you know that a single euro of EUR 9 billion will not be recovered from public resources for its sanitation? Because the selling price, Mr. Feijóo, is fictitious, it's not real. If at 1,003 million of the selling price we discount the public coverage by the litigation arising from the marketing of preference, by the disputes opened with insurance companies, by the litigation motivated by the marketing of mortgages with ground clauses; if we discount the differences of valuation in assets transferred to Sareb, which assumes FROB; if we discount the release of supplies and if we discount the tax credits, see, not only will one euro be recovered but, above all, after allocating 9,000 million euros for sanitation, it has paid for placing it, Mr Feijóo. That's the problem. [[Applause]] Do you know what the problem is, Mr. Feijóo? That FROB lied. The restructuring plan approved by the European Commission states in point 76 that guarantees in favour of the buyer amount to €2,322 million, much more than the selling price, Mr Feijóo. In short, a pelt costs looting the public archives, a real platage. That's what we accused him of, Mr. Feijóo. And if it wasn't enough, I don't know if you know that the Banco de España and the Ministry of Economics have authorized compensation to the president and the Novagaliia Board of Directors for a total amount of EUR 1.2 million, compensation...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u39	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u40	... superior, in relation to the length of stay in the entity, that those who perceived the former directors of the boxes that are now being tried, Mr. Feijóo. Look, we already know why you've kidnapped the Box Research Commission:
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u41	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u42	...because they don't want this cop to be investigated. And the chief accomplice, the chief in charge is you, Mr. Feijóo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u43	Thank you, Mr. Jorquera. Replica by the President of the Union.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u44	Your Honor, the story is made in a reply to a parliamentary question, the story is written. [[Laughter]] We know exactly, Your Honor, that happened with the boxes, who was in the Government when it was to oversee the boxes and, unfortunately, they couldn't do it – I suppose without bad faith, but it didn't do it – and as Mr. Méndez Romeo, on that intelligent quote, tells me that the Government that happened, of what you were part of, did not inform us of the situation we inherited from the boxes, but it had to be nothing more and nothing less than the Head of State. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] What do you mean? Which, for four years, Your Honor, when the boxes in Galicia...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u45	Mr. Gallego, you have a call to order.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u46	...your... Your... Your Honor, when the boxes in Galicia had a mortgage risk of 3,500 million, when we left the Government in 2005 and found ourselves with 17 billion euros, what exactly did you propose? When offices were opened and all the expansion of these boxes was produced outside Galicia, 300 offices opened during the bipartite outside Galicia, when the rate of laziness, that is, of default during the bipartite outside Galicia, rose more than 8%, Your Honor, to what were you dedicated? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u47	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u48	You were exactly what I was defending, Your Honor?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u49	Mr. Gallego, second call to order.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u50	Banking the boxes is a decision of the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party. The sale of the boxes, Your Honor, is an exigencies of the European Union... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u51	Mrs. Pontón, a call to order.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u52	...because he injected European funds, not for these boxes, but for all Spanish boxes, except for two or three. And what is the only autonomous community, after intervening in the boxes, which maintains a financial entity based in Galicia, with employment in Galicia, with offices in Galicia and producing positive effects in Galicia? This autonomous community. The rest of the autonomous communities were left without financial entities based in their territorial area. No autonomous community except Galicia. [[Applause]] But look, Your Honor, I already know a year ago I already knew there were two possibilities that in a day like today BNG criticized me because Abanca had benefits or that BNG criticized me because Abanca had losses. He'd be responsible in every case; if he has benefits, he's responsible, and if he loses money, he'd still double-responsible. What if I'm not responsible, Your Honor, is to support a government that pulled people out of the street to claim what the managers did with the Greek boxes. I'm not responsible for that, Your Honor. Unfortunately, you supported that government in the city of Vigo. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Yes, Your Honor, yes. [[Murmurs.]] Look, Your Honor, we agree to inject money into financial institutions to...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u53	Go finish, President, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u54	...guarantee the money of the savers, and we agree, Your Honor, to secure the employment of the entities based in Galicia. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Are you against either of the two things? In injecting money to secure savings from savers...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u55	Finish, President, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u56	...or that financial institutions keep jobs in Galicia? Look, Your Honor, we, public money for the Greek bankers, including the preferenceists, yes; public money... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u57	Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u58	...to make bankers, not there, Your Honor, not there. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u59	Thank you, President. Question... Silence, please! Ask Mr. President of the Galician Board of Da Yolanda Díaz Pérez, G.P. of the Gaga de Left Alternative, on the reasons for the place Galicia occupies in the state basic economic data
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u60	You have the floor to put your question to Mrs. Yolanda Díaz Pérez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u61	Good morning, President. Good morning, Mr. Feijó. Mr. Feijóo, we know what you did last year: you did little and, in addition, you did wrong. No doubt, if you were to apply the law that has been in the process in this house since yesterday, the Public Employment Act, which seeks to evaluate the work that the staff does in your service, you would be fired, and dismissed without compensation. Look at this, Mr. Feijó: public data. The Greek economy is 3.5 times below the growth of the Spanish economy, 3.5 times less. Very grave. The Greek economy is getting smaller and smaller, we don't have productive capacity. But it's done, even worse: the last trimester of the year, which you know -- I suppose by your advisers -- like me, which is the quarter that marks the cycle of the next economic exercise, that is, this year, closes the exercise in even worse terms, seven times below the state average. Galicia grows to 0.1% and Spain to 0.7%, Mr Feijóo. And in case it wasn't enough, Mr. Feijóo, this is all going to lead to the destruction of employment. Indeed, what you're saying is false, Mr. Feijóo. Look at the INE data, which they don't lie. We end the year 2014 with only three autonomys that destroy jobs. By the way, Galicia is the one that destroys the most: 2,200 jobs less. But not only that, Mr. Feijó. While Spain, in general, is growing and creating jobs, bad, precarious, of bad quality, you destroy jobs, Mr. Feijóo. And you not only destroy a job, but I'm going to give you some data you never talk about. There are 19,000 fewer people in the active population. Do you care about this or not? To be in an economy that is not only stagnant, but to retreat, does it concern you or not, Mr. Feijó? Look, we have 6,500 people who stop having indefinite contracts. We have 1,700 people who stop having full-time contracts. You are responsible for one thing, Mr. Feijóo, for the negative differential that has our autonomy, our self-government, in relation to the state media. Mr. Feijóo, what are you doing to put Galicia in such a bad situation? I'll answer you. You're paying with job destruction your bad manager curriculum and your austerity policies, that's what you're doing...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u62	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u63	...in our country. And tell us, please, how this terrible situation will be corrected for this country.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u64	Thank you, Mrs. Díaz. The President of the Board has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u65	Your Honor, saying good-bye to someone without compensation should not be appropriate from the point of view of their benches. But don't worry that you won't fire me, fire me the people of Galicia, and you haven't fired me yet. Sadly, I fired you whenever you asked for your trust. But that, naturally, is your problem. My problem is trying to make Galicia in a better situation than I did. And as it became clear in the answers that I was able to give to the Socialist Party in its turn, we are talking about that the growing Greek economy, since 2010, for the first time, and we are talking – because you don't say so – that during the entire economic recession, for five years, the Greek economy has felt less than the rest of the Spanish economy. You don't want to accept – but that's the data – that, for example, in 2013 the Greek economy dropped by 1% and now we're going up by 0.4%; that is, in one year we were able to increase GDP by 1.4%. Your Honor, the employment data you just mentioned knows that these are false data, because we have 22,500 people less in unemployment offices and because we have 15,000 more members of Social Security. You know perfectly well that the service sector, for example, has risen one and a half points and that the primary sector has risen a 1.1 again. And you know as much as I should know – that in automotive, naval and energy production is where we failed in 2014. If in industry, only in industry, we had the behavior of the average of Spain, the Greek economy would rise above 1%. Now, Your Honor, I am also responsible for the situation of PSA Peugeot-Citröen, the French multinational, that he lost 4,500 million euros in past years and that this year he again lost 500 million euros. I'm also responsible that PSA Peugeot didn't have the results account that we'd like all the Greeks to weigh and grow in the industrial production index. I suppose you won't hold me responsible for two years that the German shipyards couldn't produce ships as a result of the European Union's dispute, the so-called tax lease. I guess you won't make me responsible for that. That's why the whole Greek economy, with similar behavior in the industry to the average of Spain, would be growing above 1%, you know exactly the same as me. With which, what's the problem? The problem of automotive and the problem of the naval sector, I never denied them, and that's why I put myself to work and that's why I'm going to keep working, Your Honor. With what? With an internationalization plan...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u66	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u67	...to export, and we've been the second year of greater export on all statistical indicators. Second, working with PSA Peugeot-Citröen to make the new models of PSA Peugeot take place in Vigo, Galicia, and we get it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u68	Please finish, president.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u69	First, by the factory workers. And second, because I think we made a good negotiation. I know you're against, and you voted against...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u70	Finish, President, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u71	...that at Vigo they can continue to make new vehicles. We want to keep making new vehicles. Do you know why, Your Honor? Because Galicia hurts us and because we work for Galicia, it can't be otherwise.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u72	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u73	So, Your Honor, I repeat to you that I take the data...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u74	Mr. President, thank you very much. Time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u75	...and if you want to do something reasonable, do it reasonably, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u76	Mrs. Díaz Pérez's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u77	Mr. Feijóo, I'm a fool. And look, don't manipulate the data. You're responsible for the negative differential. I'm going to say 0.1%, seven times less than the Spanish average. That's your responsibility, Mr. Feijóo. I have to admit that when I listened to you in a press conference, to the journalists' questions, to say that this was so, because, of the two things you're tired of bragging about, which are the naval industry and the automotive industry, it turns out that they're going wrong, it's to ask you to resign, Mr. Feijóo. That's what I can tell you. I'm telling you, I'm telling you, I'm telling you, permanently, that you're hurting it in the naval sector, Mr. Feijóo, that we have the empty grades, that we have poverty and unemployment in the district of Ferrolterra and that we've dismantled, by your policies, the public naval sector. But you cannot do that, unless you correct the policies or resign, Mr Feijóo, because, if you allow me, in political terms, you must have, indeed, quite expensive, Mr Feijóo, to make those statements. But look, don't lie with the data: lower the unemployment rate, lower the unemployment rate. Do you destroy employment by your policies? You destroy your job, Mr. Feijóo. And even we lost 19,000 people in the active population. And you too, Mr. Feijóo, of course, are economically responsible for the Novagalicia Bank scam, Mr. Feijóo. You made two big mistakes: the merger of the boxes and, secondly, doing business with Novagalicia Banco. Because I knew perfectly well, and they were telling him the economic corifhes, which was the worst time to sell Novagalicia Banco. You knew perfectly well that by the flows of profits Novagalicia Banco didn't have that price, I knew it was worth a lot more, however, it preferred to do business, and today it's a more scam...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u78	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u79	...to our country. You're responsible for both of these things. Give your face and tell us what you're going to do, Mr. Feijóo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u80	Thank you, Mrs. Díaz. The President of the Board has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u81	Your Honor, in the shipbuilding industry in Galicia today there are EUR 1.3 billion in running contracts or signed contracts. In 2014, I said that, once the problem with the European Union was solved, with the Socialist Commissioner, Mr Almunia, they were committed to trying to hire and they succeeded. I know you're not interested in the truth...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u82	Mrs. Sestayo, you have a call to order.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u83	...but I don't have a responsibility to him that he doesn't care about the truth. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Secondly, Your Honor, you know perfectly well that right now in Vigo and Galicia there is a commitment by PSA Peugeot-Citröen to re-make the new vans in Vigo, and we have cleared the horizon of automotive, starting in 2017, for ten more years. But I think today, in the plenary we've just had, at least in control of the president, it's not a full one more. First of all, because they ask me about a financial entity that no longer loses. And secondly, they ask me about a Greek economy that has stopped declining, going down, and is beginning to grow. I'm not going to say this is historic because I don't think it's worth it. History was, Your Honor, the league champions who lived in Spain at the time of the economic recession of the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party. No, Your Honor. [[Applause]] I say it's not historical, but it seems to me something new and something unpublished that the opposition in full starts to talk about companies that earn money, and that the opposition in full starts to talk about what begins to grow the Greek economy. Do you think it should grow more? Me too! I suppose Mr. President of the Government, Mr. Rajoy, will be very pleased that the Socialist Party, the BNG and the United Left say that Spain is doing very well, because the goal is to grow as the average of Spain. I agree. Spain is the country that grew most in 2014 across the European Union. Why can't we compare ourselves to the best in the European Union? That is certainly our goal, Your Honor, to compare us with the best in the European Union. What I do say, Your Honor, is that, as far as it depends on the Council of Galicia, the bills are clear. You omitted a data that appears in the 2014 GDP: that in Galicia the consumption of public administrations rose six times more than in the average of Spain; in Galicia 0.6%, and in Spain 0.1%. I mean, the Galician Union and public administrations invested much more in Galicia than in the rest of Spain; that depends on the Galician Union. You didn't give me the data yesterday, that in Galicia we paid the suppliers a month before the rest of Spain's autonomous communities. You don't tell me that in Galicia we Greeks owe much less money than they owe the average Spaniards. And you don't tell me, Your Honor, that the Greeks kept our public services without going to the 90 billion euros that the rest of Spain put into public administrations...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u84	It's over, president.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u85	...including the United Left-Andalucía Union and Asturias-United Left. You, Your Honor, want not to admit that Galicia during the economic recession has had a stronger strength than the rest of the autonomous communities...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u86	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u87	...and that Galicia today is in a position of optimism in relation to the economy of 2015. But don't worry, Your Honor, we are not going to stop by your sermons. Thank you very much, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u88	Thank you very much, President. We continue with the development of the agenda, with the point of non-legislative proposals. Non-legislative proposal by the G.P. People in Galicia, on the action to be taken by the Government of Greece in relation to the application of the reduction by transmission of death caused by habitual housing, provided for in the succession tax and prayers
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u89	This motion for a non-law has been tabled amendments by the Socialist Group and the Nationalist Block of Wales.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u90	To formulate the non-law proposal, Mr. Pedro Puy Fraga of the People's Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u91	Hello, thank you very much, Madam President. We present a non-law proposal related to the relevant fiscal concept, which is the concept of habitual housing, in this case in relation to its application in the inheritance tax, i.e. in mortis transmissions cause, in accordance with the rules of autonomy, incorporated into Legislative Decree 1/2011 of 28 July, which in turn incorporates the Succession Tax Act and donations as drafted in the law of 2007. The concept of habitual housing is a fiscally relevant concept in multiple taxes. Usually these taxes do it is to have a more favourable treatment of habitual housing than transmission or possession of any other immovable property, as a result of the constitutional mandate we have in relation to the right to housing. In all cases, when the different taxes handle the concept of habitual housing, it is understood that it is the usual place of residence that is property of the one who resides in it, but they are made nuances by causes, in general, that we can qualify as force majeure. For example, when there is a separation or divorce, you can consider that it is a habitual residence of the spouse who leaves the family home, regardless of whether he really resides in it; or, for example, when it is for reasons of work or for displacement to another city by, precisely, accessing the first job, the first job. So we're talking about a practical concept. At the usual level, it's where a person resides, but nuisanced according to circumstances, and always with the intention – I insist – to protect the right to access to the housing of the people, of the contributors. In our succession tax, when it is passed on for the cause of death of the cause to the heirs – and in this case we are talking about children, spouses, first-degree ascendants – the usual housing, the tax includes a series of deductions depending on the value of the property transmitted from 95% of the total value of the property to 100% in the case of the spouse, which with these limits allows the transmission of the usual living from parents to children, the spouse or even – as I said – to the ascendants. The problem, which is a relevant social problem that is presented in Galicia, is when the factual fact that the person who causes the inheritance is not produced, that is, when a person dies, who lives in his home, also because of force majeure, because they are not covered by the current legislation. And this can be seen simply by following some of the resolutions of the economic-administrative courts or different resolutions of the economic-administrative tribunal. For example, I've analyzed and I'm going to reproduce what some judgement of the Economic and Administrative Court says, all of them recent, of 2012, 2013 and even of 2014, in which the heirs, when they are liquidated at the office manager the tax, find that they consider that the father's dwelling, the mother's, is not a habitual housing and therefore do not apply to them the reduction in inheritance tax. An example, this is a neighbor of Vigo, ill Alzheimer's, who was bottled up at her daughter's home because of her illness, and what this resolution says is, "That disease prevented her from performing all sorts of basic activities of daily life, attending a major care center on a full day. The housing, located in Vigo, the only one existing in the inheritance, constitutes the habitual home of the causer until, because of the disease, it moved to the home of its daughter, and consequently does not lose the consideration of habitual housing, which is why it is appropriate to apply the corresponding deduction". It's a very common case in Galicia, when children welcome their parents, their mother, precisely to attend to them because they're with a serious illness like in this case. Another example, a neighbor in Pontevedra who, in accordance with the decision of the Economic and Administrative Court, of the documentation in the file, is that at the time of his death the complainant resided on the grounds of illness in an aid centre where he received the necessary care for his condition of total dependence on the basic activities of daily life. The dwelling, located in this case in Pontevedra, where he continued to live with his wife, constituted the customary home of the cause, so proceeds from the reduction demanded by the appellant. Another example, in this case of a neighboring Chamber, focuses on this, in addition, is more recent, and even the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia, in a judgment which the Economic and Administrative Court itself did not accept and the heirs appealed to the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia, in a very specific case, in which not only the person who dies resides with the child, but also in order to be able to access treatment and care benefits, will imped the child's house. Well, in this case or the High Court clearly states that "the transfer of the cause to the home of your child in order to receive adequate care for your illness cannot be regarded as an effective and permanent transfer that causes you to lose the habitual housing character to the one where you have been living with your husband for more than 50 years". If it is unquestionable that the determination of the establishment of habitual residence is a factual matter, as I have just mentioned, and therefore the transfer to your son's house was not the permanent character required to prevent the application of the reduced request, but it was with the only object of being able to be adequately cared for by your illness. In the face of these circumstances, and in the face of these repeated resolutions, it is clear that for reasons of fairness, and for reasons of common logic and common sense, a solution must be sought. The solution can come by two basically paths. First. Just let the Gallega Tax Agency give you the corresponding instructions so that these circumstances are taken into account in the management offices. And second, you can change the rule, so that clearly in addition to its application, these cases are included in the deduction of succession tax by transmission of the usual housing when those who die reside for health reasons and assistance in another home. In this case, this is the feeling of the two amendments that this initiative receives. We agree with explaining exactly how the Board should act, and in this sense, as soon as this debate is over, I will pass on to them a compromise proposal that incorporates both the modification of the autonomous legislation and urge that, as long as this amendment of the autonomous regulations is not carried out, the Board itself has already said instructions to avoid these problems, and in this way in these specific cases, which, knowing our social reality, are, of course, frequent in Galicia, if this measure of equity is corrected in the application of the tax rule in the taxation of successions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u92	Thank you, Mr. Puy. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. Mrs. Peace.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u93	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, people who have been with us since Parliament's rostrum. As Mr Puy has already explained to Mr Puy what is the problem that we are talking about, I will not waste nor use much time to justify or to influence the need to make a change which gives him a solution – let us say – within the justice and equity which is the problem we are talking about, what is the problem to which we are talking about, I will not waste or use much time to justify or to influence the need to make a change that gives him a solution – let us say – within the justice and fairness that would tax these people who, because of their age and their state of dependency, have to give up what was their habitual living and whether they had to abandon what had come to be their usual dwelling, and who, therefore, not at the moment of a change in the need of a change that gives him a solution – let us say – within the justice and fairness Nationalist Nationalist Galego's Parliamentary Group, which we would not at all be disappointed, nor goes against any philosophy of the interpretation itself of the very itself, interpretation of the Tribut would make of this obligation of residence requirement, if we also have a specific residence, if we also have a specific criterion, if we have a specific criterion of that specific criterion, if we have a country, which is the country, the most bound country. we have a social reality. we have a country. we have a social reality. we have a reality. we have a reality. we have a reality. we have a reality. we have a reality. we have a reality. we have a reality. we have a reality. we have a reality. we have a reality. we have only only only only only only only only only only only only only but as as as as as as we have a reality. we have a reality. we have a reality. We believe that in addition, in view of the powers in this case, and we are dealing with a tribute handed down by the State, we do not even need the competition of any other sovereignty other than that which we have in this Parliament, and therefore we believe that any of the solutions that are being raised in this debate, or even the two as complementary, which is formulated through the amendment of the Socialist Group and also the amendment made by the BNG Parliamentary Group, which is to urge the Joint Committee to refer us to this Parliament, or otherwise we would also be available if the rest of the groups consider it appropriate and it seems to us that we are all much more critical to the solution of this issue, to constitute a joint statement by the parliamentary groups, which, from the outset, could solve this problem in virtually weeks, if we wish the parliamentary groups, to amend Article 3.1 of the Legislative Decree 1/2011, through which we are able to regulate, by means of which, by means of which, we are effectively regulating, the person who is bound by virtue, and by the definition of which makes the rule of which the usual rule of law, the rule of law, the rule of whether the rule of life, the rule of law, the rule of which the rule of law, the rule of which the rule of which the rule of which the rule of which the rule of which the rule of which the rule of which the rule of law makes the rule of law should apply, the rule of law, shall apply It is also worth, of course, what Mr. Puy said, that, while this is not solved, the Galician Tax Agency tells you a rule to all offices that practice the liquidation of succession taxes so that the interpretation that is done is in line with this interpretation that I believe – in view of the amendments tabled – that will be the unanimous feeling of the Galician Parliament. Nothing else. I mean, I think there will be no problem accepting the transaction proposed by the People's Group, and simply expressing that all groups take into account the possibility of, in order to be more agile, we can form a joint presentation and solve this as soon as possible. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u94	Thank you, Mrs. Paz. Socialist Parliamentary Group. Mr. Sánchez Bugallo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u95	Good morning, Mr. President. Good morning, gentlemen. Today we bring to the plenary of this Parliament an issue that you may seem to think is a smaller issue – sometimes it comes from themes that seem to be much larger content – but it is a subject that affects the lives of tens of thousands and hundreds of thousands of people. Unfortunately, because nature is like that, every year there are about 40,000 deaths in Galicia, and more than 30,000 of them own their usual housing. Many thousands of them, because of today's life, of the increase in longevity, etc., the last years of their life must pass through them or in a residence, in which, by the way, it is mandatory to get entangled, or they must pass through the home of some family, rather than a child, to spend the last few years there. From the point of view of the wording of article 3.1 of Legislative Decree 1/2011, the formula setting out the state legislation for the IRPF relating to the definition of habitual housing is collected. As has already been said here, the definition of habitual housing in the IRPF is linked to the acquisition of housing for tax relief purposes, thinking of a person who is younger than buying a housing, who pays a 25-year mortgage and who declines over those 25 years. On the other hand, in the transmission of housing that is regulated in Article 7(3) of Decree 1/2011, we are thinking about the transmission of a mortis housing which is a cause for the ascendants, the descendants or the spouse of the person who has just died. They are therefore completely different circumstances and cases. We appreciate, ladies and gentlemen, the proposal made by the People's Party, and we have made a very similar amendment to that of the BNG. It says the People's Party's proposal: "The Galician Parliament urges the Galician Union to carry out, within the framework of the competences of the Autonomous Community of Galicia, everything possible to achieve it." We, ladies and gentlemen, understand that this formulation, which, without a doubt, expresses a spirit to solve the problem, seems insufficient to us. We believe that the Galician Parliament is the right place where one can and should do more, which is justly legislate. Therefore, our amendment proposes that everything possible be replaced by another formula that says: "the amendment of the wording of Article 3(1), in relation to Article 7(3) of the vigorative Legislative Decree 1/2011 of 28 July, in order to achieve the application of the reduction by transmission of death cause." We believe that is what this Parliament can and should do as a legislative body in Galicia. It is not bad that you are told a resolution, from the point of view of the Galician Tax Agency, to resolve circumstantially this issue as long as the amendment of the Legislative Decree does not occur. But, ladies and gentlemen, there may be a problem, it is a resolution that conflicts with the letter of the decree itself, and which is therefore likely that there is someone who interprets something else and therefore even until anyone who says that resolution may end up having some kind of difficulty. What we can and should do, which gives full legal certainty, is that we adjust its content in the Legislative Decree to the reality that we try to protect. We are waiting for the People's Party to present to us the transaction text, but without question, if it goes in accordance with what we refer to in our amendment and which has just expressed the BNG's voice, we will have no difficulty accepting that transaction. And we also join in expressing our will through the constitution of a presentation with an immediate character, or as if it were more appropriate, with the aim of giving it the greatest speed possible to modify that legislative decree and, therefore, to leave, from the legal point of view, fully covered to all and to all, so that to those tens of thousands of Greek families who each year see themselves in that difficult and painful situation we do not add a problem beyond the definition of what is habitual living. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u96	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez Bugallo. Joint Parliamentary Group. Mrs. Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u97	Thank you, President. Good morning, little by little, we're in the hemicycle. Last November 25th in this House we are discussing initiatives on succession tax, grants and heritage transmissions. At that time I tabled an amendment to the Socialist Party's initiative in which the Government of Greece was urged to demand that the Tax Agency of Galicia should proceed with the taxation of market values, justifying the same as the market value and not the second pre-established modules. And also that the Tax Agency had carried out a review of the liquidations carried out in the last four years that had been claimed by taxpayers, adjusting them to market value, to prevailing legality and to valuation judgments. When reading the People's Party initiative that we are dealing with, I, even though I will vote for it, wonder whether you have now realized what the usual home meant, because this was already on that initiative that you voted against. I don't know what made them react, if any family member of you, or in a situation of you, something like this happened to them and then they understood what the usual home was. It's the only explanation I find, because at this point there are more problems than you think that should be addressed in its entirety. Not only is the 100 percent tax bonus at stake, but what I just discussed about the valuations being made by the Tax Agency against the judgments of the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia. An action by the Tax Agency, which is purely recalibrated and ends up ruining and defrauding hundreds of citizens, small businesses and small farms. It is not justifiable, for example, that the valuation modules used by the Board, derived from the June Order 2011, maintain market coefficients equal on the Gran Via de Vigo than on the Ramón Nieto Avenue; on the Coruña Canton that in the Agra do Orzán; or on the Horreo in Santiago and on the Conxo Polygon. What do you think the market coefficients in Marín, O Grove, Boiro, O Barco, Ribeira, Ribadeo or Pattern are for this year a 1.3, the same as Pontevedra, Lugo, La Coruña, Santiago, Ferrol, Vigo or Ourense? What do you think the unit value of building per square meter is 650 euros a square meter or 550 euros a square meter, according to the municipality is first or second? And I wonder what does the construction price have to do with the municipality where it is built? You have no explanation. You have the responsibility to govern and you also have the responsibility to give the necessary instructions, through the Council, to the Tax Agency so that it will begin to comply with the judgments; to make the interpretations adjusted to the rights and duties of citizens; to stop having an arbitrary act that is coming to the scam with thousands of Greeks and Greeks who do not have the ability to plead against the Administration in the defence of their rights. An abuse that causes a double scam: economic fraud and not being treated as equal before the law. What's got money, you can go through it. What he doesn't have money, he loses in front of the Tax Agency. I'll vote for this initiative, but it's a shame you don't take advantage of to solve all these problems that are impoverishing the working class, the popular classes, with illegal actions from the Tax Agency itself. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u98	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. Parliamentary Group of the Left Galician Alternative. Mrs. Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u99	Good morning again. Mr Puy, if I may, because of this situation I have to state that we are going to vote favourably – it is that I am going to be fatal – the initiative for social justice reasons, and it would seem appropriate that this same reason should be applied in similar cases, that there are some of them. If I am allowed briefly, if we would point out that, if we choose between the two options of the amendments tabled, perhaps strictly, to establish a new relationship which leads to changing the existing legislation, in particular in Article 3, it may be. And I leave him here because I can't talk anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u100	I wish he would recover, I wish he would! Group author of the non-law proposal. Mr. Puy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u101	I join the wishes of improving the voice of the spokeswoman of AGE. The first thing I would like to thank is support for this initiative, and to explain a couple of questions in connection with this. I agree with the spokesperson for the Galician Nationalist Block, in which, in fact, this is an autonomous competition. Here we are urging the Union to act to avoid these situations that lead to resources, and that certainly, as he said – and I can no longer agree with it, that is precisely why we present this initiative – the spokesperson of the Socialist Group, is not a minor issue, it is a subject that affects many families, and it is a subject of justice to try to solve it as soon as possible. That's why in the transaction I'm going to propose – if we all agree – to act in both ways: insisting that the instructions are already said – that we hope the management offices will begin to apply immediately – but, at the same time, so that it is fixed to the norm, a precision in relation to the tax of successions and prayers. What leads me, as you will see in the transaction that I will now comment on, to tell you that article 3 – which is what puts in the amendments of the two groups – refers to the concept of habitual housing for all the taxes handed down. This means that it applies not only to succession tax and donations but also, for example, to property transmission tax and documented legal acts. It's about solving the problem in succession tax, that's in Article 7 and not in Article 3; so let's say that what it's about is not to affect other taxes, such as that of heritage transmissions, which also have some discounts, providing for other assumptions – such as, for example, a new person's access to housing, etc. – does not change it to solve the real problem that we're trying to solve today, which is the problem of deadly transmission. I would like to thank, in any case, these interventions, including those of the Joint Group, for not just convinced that those of the People's Party don't have to have any friends or family members who go through this. I quoted sentences, and we do so because we often think in common interest. You can certainly think of the great macroeconomic figure, but also – as the socialist spokesperson rightly said – to solve the small problems that many people have, which in addition coincide with a particularly hard time for people's lives, which is the death of a direct relative. You've raised a subject that has nothing to do with it. We're talking about reducing the tax on inheritances, not determining the basis, which is what is established through an average price. Which, by the way, in recent times have been reduced, in recent years, about 34%, and about which we will certainly have to speak, precisely by the judicial judgments you mentioned, soon again in this House. I insist, thank you very much. I'll pass the transaction text to them right now.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u102	Thank you, Mr. Puy. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da María Montserrat Prado Cores and D. Francisco Jesus Jorquera Caselas, on the realization by the Government of the actions necessary to the Central Government for the transfer to Galicia of competences in the field of labour law
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u103	This motion for a non-law amendment by the Socialist Parliamentary Group was tabled.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u104	To formulate the non-law proposal has the floor to Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u105	Good day to all and all. Yesterday was March 10th, the day that Galicia celebrated the day of the Galician working class. Yesterday, hundreds of people went out to the streets of Galicia to commemorate this date. The March 10 Commemoration is a reference date for the struggle of the Welsh working class, which in 1972 I set an example of struggle, especially in Ferrol and Vigo, against the Franco-Francist dictatorship. On 10 March 1972 two workers, Daniel and Amador, were killed in Ferrol by the fascist police, in the framework of the workers' struggles that were being waged at that time in Galicia, especially in Ferrol and Vigo. He fights to be entitled to negotiate agreements in Galicia, fights to improve wages, fights to reduce the six-day workday per week. A struggle that ended – as we all know – with a harsh repression that cost two lives, dozens of wounded and hundreds of people arrested. But what Amador and Daniel represent, their struggle, unfortunately today, is still active in Galicia. Forty-three years after those events, Galicia's demands for those who have been killed are still at stake. Amateur and Daniel were murdered for defending labor rights, freedoms, and for fighting for their own agreement, and today we still have to fight for these same issues in Galicia. In 1972 there was a dictatorship of the capital but executed by a fascist dictatorship, and today we have a dictatorship of the capital executed by a distorted democracy. Today we live in another dictatorship: that of the richest, that of the capitalists; the dictatorship of the bank and large companies; the dictatorship of those who defraud more than 80,000 million euros a year through tax havens for those who then put in place tax bailouts; the dictatorship of those who have our people in a critical emergency situation. In the BNG we have very clear that the Greeks and the Greeks need to decide for ourselves our future, to have sovereignty over what is vital for us to decide a dignified life. We have the strong conviction that we need to defend our interests as a nation against a Spanish state and a European Union that does not count on our opinion, which uses us as consumers and consumers and as a source of resources and cheap labour, which resembles us or intends to assimilate us into their language, attacking everything that is our own. The report's data on employees' income and employment income, done by the Tax Agency, reveals a situation of extreme precariousness and poverty that is installed in the world of work, with the danger that this is not a transitional issue, as much as they are engaged in the People's Party to convince us that this is already overcome; rather, the risk is that it becomes a structural and definitive problem. According to that report by the Tax Agency, Galicia currently has 969,000 employees, of whom more than 300,000 – i.e. more than 31% – enter less than the minimum interprofessional wage, i.e. less than EUR 648 per month. And in that group – almost half – 177,000 people have a salary of less than 200 euros a month. That's the reality of work in Galicia. The salary in Galicia lost 11% of the purchasing capacity in five years. The only sector that grows is what earns less than 50% of the minimum interprofessional wage. The only growing sector is that of people who only earn 200 euros a month. And the cause of this situation is essentially the successive labour reforms, especially the brutal labour reform of the year 2012. Reforms demanded by large companies and by the bank – which are the ones that really command governments of the People's Party of Madrid and Galicia – that have resulted in this increase in precariousness, temporality and massive emigration. Almost half of the people who don't have jobs in Galicia, who are unemployed, don't charge any benefits. And this is the best statistic today that the president of the German Government here in this House. These are the unemployment reduction data he claims: precarious unemployment, employment of people who work one or two hours a week and no longer count as employees. Those are statistics the People's Party can boast of. The reforms imposed are, as it is evident, impoverishing the working class of Galicia in an unworthy way. And to this we must add, as in 1972, reform, cuts in public freedoms, repression against social movements, repression against the working class; modification of the criminal code or citizen security law, the law bites. We are now presenting this initiative because we are convinced that our future cannot be in the hands of either the European Central Bank or the International Monetary Fund or the European Commission; the same is true: it cannot be in the hands of either the Spanish financial oligarchy or the German bank. Our future has to be able to decide freely on it by the Greeks and the Greeks. And that is why we need to have a government and a German Parliament with full and sovereign powers. That's why we're presenting initiatives like this, which all they want is that the Greek Government has instruments to act for the benefit of the Galician working class; that it has instruments for this instead of implementing anti-social policies, which have generated unemployment, proliferation of destruction of our productive fabric, social inequalities and ultimately poverty for our country. We defend the BNG that Galicia needs to self-governance, decide what it needs for its free development and for better defend the interests of the working class in Galicia. The Government of Galicia must take an active role in that claim. And that is why we call for the support of the House's groups for the initiative we are presenting, which is only to have – I insist – normative instruments to enable the creation of decent employment and the quality, above all, of collective bargaining, in the conviction that it is necessary and essential to have a Greek framework of labour relations. A Greek framework of labor relations that contemplates the specificity of the working reality of Galicia, which responds to Galicia's productive and social reality, which guarantees the labor and trade union rights of the workers and workers of Galicia, which fosters decent working and wage conditions. A German framework for labour relations for the normative development of collective bargaining itself. Because at the BNG we defend that conventions, such as that of the conservation, where 70 or 80 percent of the people employed, mainly women employed, who are in Galicia, that can't be a state agreement that is negotiated in Madrid, where they practically don't know what it is, and much less of the needs of workers and workers of the same. We believe that a collective negotiation of our own in Galicia must not continue to depend on state conventions that cover very broad sectors and that nothing has to do with Galicia's working reality. Convention like that of chemicals, which affects, for example, a sector as relevant in Galicia, such as the automotive sector, that needs to be negotiated in Madrid, and above all in an area where activities are totally different. Conventions like textiles, negotiated in Madrid, when Galicia has different specificities. Conventions like those of the naval, where in 72 C.E. they were claiming an own agreement for the naval, and today we have to continue to claim a proper Greek agreement for the naval, for a sector as strategic for Galicia as is the naval sector. We call for support for this initiative, because we consider it essential to have a European framework of labour relations in order to prevent company agreements from being signed under the sector; so that Galician Government workers and workers in Galicia, their trade union representatives, have tools to put in place measures to defend the working class of Greece; in order to be able to make decisions on passive employment policies such as the management of unemployment benefits and the recognition and payment of benefits; in order to prevent occupational risks and disability – Galicia continues to be at the head of labour disability. We need to be responsible, in order to make ourselves responsible for labour mediation, among other things, that is not in the hands of placement agencies; in order to have a Greek public service of placement with powers to exercise this; in order to manage and control mutuals; in order for the Fire not to continue to be that instrument of the State that has the worst conditions in Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u106	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u107	In short, the BNG presents here today, a day after March 10th, of the Galaga Workplace Day, an initiative that aims to make us self-responsible and that Galicia, the German Government, the workers and workers in Greece and their representatives have tools to boost decent work and wages in Galicia, to promote their own agreements in Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u108	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Quintas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u109	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. We are faced with a complex issue, since maybe we're talking about constitutional reform and, of course, a reform of the Statute. But beyond the question of competence, in this case we are talking and finding the incompetence of the German Government. It was alarming to see a whole president of the board at parliamentary headquarters falsify the data, with absolutely trivial messages, because in the messages the president of the board and the work advisor have to know – as otherwise – the unemployment data in Galicia. It's more, even I suppose in a mistake, the president of the board called the employment offices "employment offices." I've so assumed that it's really incompetent to generate jobs that it calls them. Mr Feijóo's government, beyond the subject we are dealing with, even refusing to exercise its own competences in employment policies, is also complicit with the privatization policies applied by the People's Party in the Government of the State. The combination of the ideology of an absolutely extreme right and the incompetence manifests in the management and budgetary execution of the Government of Galicia cause Galicia to find itself with very worrying unemployment figures, and they cause this to result from the emigration of young Greeks, who don't even go through those offices which the president of the Union called unemployment. The basic rights cuts in this community lead us to an absolutely alarming situation if to these unemployment figures, if to these unemployment and membership deficits in Social Security, we join the population downturn. The People's Party is turning Galicia into a non-productive community, which is unable to generate the future, and it's depopulating. It leads us, therefore, to a country without a future. The reality that we live beyond the competence is the result of the dismantling of the welfare state, supported by the labour reforms of the People's Party. The increase in inequality in Spain, the Spanish State and Galicia is the greatest threat to the citizens of Galicia. Unemployment in Galicia increases in proportion to the measures taken by the People's Party. Directly, we're ignoring our qualified capital and we're not making real bets for generating jobs and opportunities in this country. The drama we are dealing with right now is a very serious matter, because we were talking about people's survival, quality of life and opportunities. The Greek Government does not exercise the powers it has, merely to be notary of the difficulty, to seek guilty in other administrations, that is, to be an absolutely useless and ineffective government. Where you exercise your powers in the alleged illegal financing of the People's Party through the Labour Council, as shown in the Zeta case; there you clearly exercise your powers. Therefore, the German Government is committed to a model in which it wants to reduce the public to a minimum of expression, and seeks economic profitability where it should find social rights. I doubt the People's Party will be aware of this lack of functions, because it's in an unbridled career towards privatization and favoring the friends of the People's Party. The reality is that the state's labour laws and the powers exercised by the Government of Greece are completely deteriorating in the framework of labour relations and increasingly hampering work. The solutions that have been adopted result in a high rate of unemployment and a reduction in entitlements under labour and wage conditions. The concern of the German Government, not only is it shown...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u110	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u111	...–Filled, Mr President—in this respect, but, parallelly since 2009, as unemployment increases, the employment budget has dropped, but what is even more serious: not only does the budget decline, but the budget is not executed. In view of this picture, our first concern is therefore to demand that we exercise the powers we have and then, in fact, seek to obtain the best competences so that Galicia is on an equal footing with other autonomous communities and can exercise its self-government. To that end, we tabled an amendment and to express what we have already said in the frustrated reform of the Statute for the Self-Government of Galicia...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u112	Thank you, Mrs. Quintas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u113	Thanks to this recentralizing PP, what we have is a really difficult and problematic reality...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u114	Thank you, Mrs. Quintas, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u115	...for the future of this country. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u116	Thank you, Mrs. Quintas. Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u117	Of course, it's a shame that such an important initiative for our country coincides with the time of the PP recreation, because almost everyone is out. So, it would be nice, perhaps, President, to let you know that recreation is over, that we have something important to discuss. I want to begin by sending my solidarity with the workers and workers of Povervisa, on hunger strike for the second day, in claim of decent working conditions, against dismissal and union repression in the concerted hospital, before what the Union obviously does not act. And of course, it does not act with its powers, it allows the employer to massacre workers and workers, even when that performance on workers and workers has an impact on something as important as the care of the health of the Greeks and the Greeks. We are, of course, going to support this initiative, because it is essential that such things as those taking place in Povervisa do not happen and that Galicia has powers to fight against overexploitation. For example, in order for what is happening in this hospital to happen, with redundancies due to objective causes, when the company has profits, and benefits that come from public money. In order to end the union repression that is taking place in our country, where the union struggle is criminalized, and where that citizen insecurity bites law will condemn us workers and the prison workers. As is the case, for example, with the indecent expectation of Carlos and Serafín for an pardon, just two workers who went after a strike in the transport sector. This initiative, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party – the four who are here to address this issue – is important because Galicia needs to be able to regulate its own collective bargaining. We need Greek conventions, a job reform that facilitates the way to business agreements, which for this country are criminal. And they're criminals because we don't have big companies, we're a country of pemens, and in a country of pemens there can't be business agreements because they will always be subordinated to the power of the employer. We need Greek conventions because, as the spokesperson for the BNG, the state conventions are minimum agreements, minimum agreements, little more than the Staff Regulations, minimum wages. That's why Galicia is impoverished, because she has no Greek conventions, because many of her productive sectors refuse, and – as the BNG spokesman said – very important sectors in Galicia, such as automotive, textile or conservation, for agreements signed in Madrid, far from where the workers and workers in the sector are. But also so that no abuse will be done by the employer, like what is being done in Povervisa, where workers and workers rest one day every thirteen days, according to shifts, but also constantly changing their turn: morning, evening and evening. You imagine, ladies and gentlemen, what it is to work 13 days in a hospital, changing the shift tomorrow morning, afternoon and evening. What quality can those staff provide when they arrive at day ten, eleven and twelve, how is that staff? But they don't care about you, because they don't care about the health of the Greeks and the Greeks, they don't care about the working conditions of the workers and the workings of the Greeks. You just have to listen to the president today in his statements applauding up to his ears the double salary scale of Citroën. If that's a triumph for this government, we're going wrong! But it is also indecent that we are the Autonomous Community which has less competence in the field of work. And, as I'm done with time, I'm going to put, for example, Catalonia, which has competences in labour relations and working conditions, in labour mediation, in collective bargaining and registering of agreements, in regulatory processes and administrative occupation, in the prevention of work risks, in the sanctioning power of social offences, in the control of legality, in the inspection of work. Fundamental! If you really want to rule this country, you should not vote in favour of this initiative, but it is you who brought this initiative to Parliament. Unfortunately they haven't done so, for this reason, for the rights of the workers and the Italian workers, for the sake of our productive fabric and the quality of life of the Greeks and the Greeks, we hope they will vote for this initiative. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u118	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. Parliamentary Group of the Alternative Left Gallega, Mr Fajardo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u119	Good morning to all and to all. This proposal is important enough because it deals with fundamental issues for workers and workers, and, above all, at a time when their rights are not only at stake, but reduced to a minimum. That's why I'm not going to talk about the unemployment situation, the benefits -- for example, about a data on what's always going on in this House, and we have to say this: because of the precarious work situation in Galicia last year, there has been an increase in work accidents by 3.79%; 59 deaths in Galician jobs due to work insecurity. But despite this, nothing is done here. Not only is nothing done, but there are even issues as fundamental as the European Charter of Social Rights. The last report of the European Committee on Social Rights accuses the State and also Galicia of serious non-compliance in matters fundamental to workers and workers. The first charge from this committee is the criminalization of strikers. Tens of workers in prison for claiming their rights, while those who use public institutions to enrich themselves, to fill their pockets, to receive "gift gifts" still sit in the chairs of this Parliament. That's the reality of our working situation. And that's why this report also talks about the restriction of strike rights. A right of strike which is below European standards of strike rights. A right of strike that workers have to do by renouncing fundamental rights. And that is one of the issues that we would have to legislate in this Parliament. How is it possible that in order to access the right to strike a worker has to renounce other rights such as, for example, feeding his family or being able to pay for his home? How is it possible for a company to use a temporary employment regulation file, which means that it will contribute less to Social Security, which means that it will be able to clean up a complicated economic situation, the only pagans in that situation are the workers and the workers? How is it possible to use their contributions by the company unilaterally, because the latest reform of the People's Party allows companies to use temporary employment regulation files unilaterally, using the contributions of these workers, who can then be without any contributions when this file is finished? Because so decided the People's Party, which did not ratify that royal decree which in December of all years said that the unemployment spent on temporary records would be returned to the workers. We are therefore faced with a continuous series of absolutely regrettable cuts that are impoverishing our citizenship, but they are also eliminating the minimum rights that have cost so much time and so much struggle. And here I want to make a special mention because it's regrettable what happened in this country yesterday, March 10th, Working Class Day. The working class that he used on March 10 because that day two comrades in Ferrol were killed by fascist cops. And it turns out on the Welsh public channel that they claim death by shooting two workers at Ferrol, as if they were two bullets lost, as if they were standing in front of some bullets that appeared there without saying they were reprisaled and killed in a strike claiming rights. That's what happens in this country. It is absolutely unfair for us to be able to manipulate Galicia's so important history using these kinds of statements on the Welsh public channel. A Welsh public channel that we have already said here and we continue to define as the expression organ of the People's Party. And for that we don't want a public channel, the public channel has to be to dignify our history. And an important moment to dignify our history was yesterday making it clear that two workers were murdered during that regime, simply by claiming fair conditions. And it's in the situation we're in today. Today we are in the same situation, in a situation where workers have to go out to the street to claim their rights, but with that new Mordaza Law they are arrested. Yesterday in Madrid people were arrested simply for claiming the right to a decent housing, and were taken to prison. No one goes to the People's Party headquarters to catch and chain those who were doing black work and were irregularly funded. That's the situation we're in right now. But that report also speaks of an absolutely fundamental situation: the insufficiency of the minimum wage. The European Union report says that in this country it is impossible to live with dignity with the minimum wage, that income levels which guarantee the minimum wage are insufficient to live a decent life. And it's not what Alternative Gaga de Left says, they don't even say it in Venezuela, they don't say it in North Korea, they tell it in the European Union about the Spanish state, which is able to convert most of its new workers into poor workers. So it's time to dignify work, dignify jobs and legislate for the majority social and not for those who pay the People's Party bills. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u120	Thank you, Mr. Fajardo. People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Tellado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u121	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, everyone. I am from Ferrol and therefore I can tell you that in Ferrol, for several years now, March 10 has been celebrated together, not only by the union forces, but also by all the political parties that make up the municipal arch. And so yesterday in Ferrol, what was happening is an institutional act where the City of Ferrol Corporation was present with the unions Workers' and UXT Committees, reminding Daniel and Amador, in an institutional celebration we all share. So, I don't think it's appropriate to try to achieve absolutely this commemoration, which is shared, Mr. Beiras, absolutely for everyone. [[Mr. Beiras Torrado pronounces words that are not perceived.]] All of Ferrol's municipal corporations...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u122	Quiet, Mr. Beiras, quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u123	...formed by those who are formed, they always commemorated and celebrated March 10th. No matter how much you care, it's unfortunately so. [[Mr. Beiras Torrado pronounces words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u124	Mr. Beiras, Mr. Beiras......it's better to leave, yes. [[Mr. Beiras Torrado pronounces words that are not perceived.]] You better get out of here so you don't have to throw it out. Go, it's the wisest thing to do, because if you come for this, it's better to go. [[Murmurs.]] Have a nice day! Have a nice day. [[Murmurs.]] Go on... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] You don't get involved in this. You don't get into this that nobody called you. No one called him. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] No, no, about who is in the use of the word. This is Parliament, eh! As for who... silence, silence. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Silence to all! Go ahead, Mr. Tellado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u125	A great democratic exercise: listening to someone who doesn't listen, the example of Mr. Beiras, yes sir. In any case, he likes or doesn't like Mr. Beiras on March 10th is the heritage of all the Democrats, represented by the Municipal Corps of Ferrol, and there we were all, as much as spite of Mr. Beiras. Allow me to begin by disagreeing about the unemployment data posed by the Galician Nationalist Block initiative. It's a lie, Mrs. Prado, unemployment didn't go up in Galicia as they say in the text of their initiative, at least now; if it went up in the last year of the Bipartisan Government when you ruled. But the truth is, I'm unemployed now in Galicia, as much as it bothers them, unemployment is low. And the truth is that the inter-annual evolution between February 2014 and February 2015... today is in Galicia... [[Murmurs.]] [[Mrs. Martínez García speaks words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u126	Quiet. Mrs. Martínez!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u127	...22,500 unemployed less. The unemployment fell in Galicia by 8% in the last year, and I'm sorry you're so upset. We have had sixteen consecutive months of annual unemployment reductions in Galicia. And with that drop, unemployment is again set at levels three years ago in Galicia, as much as it bothers you. It is a fact that confirms, in any case, the progressive improvement in the behaviour of unemployment in Galicia. And Galicia is better than the average state, where the unemployment reduction was 6%, in Galicia unemployment dropped by 8% in the last year. Honestly, we don't understand why you're so upset about the opposition that unemployment goes down, because it's true that in the last year......it's been down in 22,000 people, and in the last year... [[Mrs. Martínez García speaks words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u128	Mrs. Martínez, Mrs. Martínez!...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u129	...of the two-party government...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u130	Sorry, sorry, Mr. Tellado. Excuse me a moment.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u131	...the unemployment rate went up in 51,000 people.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u132	Mrs. Martínez, second call to order, and I warn you that in the next call you have to leave the Chamber. [[Mrs. Martínez García speaks words that are not perceived.]] Go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u133	And unemployment is not only low in Galicia, it is also low in Spain, Mrs. Quintas. Spain's unemployment has also dropped in the last year, 300,000 unemployed less in the last year, Mrs. Quintas, 460,000 more members of Social Security in the last year. And youth unemployment has dropped, Mrs. Quintas, in the last year 9%, 88,000 less unemployed. With regard to the proposal that BNG brings to plenary today, because here we have talked about a lot of things, but the fact is that on the proposal very little, the proposal is to ask for the competences in the field of labour law and to be transferred to the Council of Galicia. That's what Mrs. Quintas didn't talk about, she preferred to put the dust fan, something very common in the Socialist Party; we, of course, are here to talk, to talk about the initiative. [[Protests.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u134	Quiet, please. Quiet, please. Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u135	As far as the proposal is concerned, what we have to tell you is that regulatory competence in the field of labour law is exclusive to the State, and so it is determined in the Spanish Constitution, which also supported the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u136	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u137	The Magna Charter reserves for the State the regulation of labour relations, as well as the basic legislation and the economic regime of social security. These questions are set out in Article 149.1.7 of the Spanish Constitution. The reservation to the State of exclusive jurisdiction in legislative and regulatory matters in labour matters ensures uniformity in legal management in matters throughout the territory of the State, without therefore having to disintegrate in autonomic areas. Finally, the Constitution guarantees the principle of equality. In any case, ladies and gentlemen, since I've been left very little time to talk about the initiative with so many figures... in any case, ladies and gentlemen, we don't think the best way to get out of the crisis is that in this country there are seventeen different labour laws, which is a little what the Nationalist Block Galego proposes on this initiative, one for each autonomous community. [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] We don't think that's the best thing to get out of the crisis and neither did the constituents believe it...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u138	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u139	...in 1978 when article 149 of the Spanish Constitution was drafted. Perhaps today you are the ones who use the crisis as an excuse to defend their sovereignist theories, understanding that the Galician labour market would be more efficient with a regulation that only applies in the territory of our autonomous community. We believe that the effect of this measure would be precisely the opposite, that it would be negative for the Galician labour market and for the labour market in Spain, and in any case its proposal would, in all light, be incompatible with Article 139.1 of the Spanish Constitution, which collects that:...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u140	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u141	..."All Spaniards have the same rights and obligations in any part of the territory of the State." Something that, at a normal time, would share the People's Party and the Socialist Party; now – as the Socialist Party plays to be Podemos – one cannot honestly know what they are defending. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u142	Thank you, Mr. Tellado. Author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Prado. Give a voice to Mrs. Prado's chair.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u143	I can talk without a microphone. Mr. Tellado, we've defended an own legislation for Galicia, because it's the Greek people we owe to in the Galician Nationalist Block, who chose us and what we work for. In 1972 they were all in Ferrol, too they were all, but some were shooting and others were dying. Some claimed – yes, they were all – and others were reprisaled, they were repressed. [[Applause]] Yes, they were all there in Ferrol. Today, this initiative goes from working class to Galicia. You're the working class only understand it to exploit it, with which... it's not... and it's not Galician, either. You are Spain I can't; then neither working class nor Welsh; neither worker nor Greek. At the BNG we do not resign ourselves to others to decide for us, we do not resign ourselves to be ruled by other interests, not others. At the BNG, we aspired that Galicia had a government worthy of such a name. We hope that there will be a Greek government that wishes to exercise this and that it will have instruments to be able to exercise as a Greek government, that it will exercise as a Greek government in the service of the Greeks; that it will not be delegates, sent from Madrid, or from the financial powers. We want Galicia to have and make her decisions. And for that, tools are needed. Indeed, this initiative is about political declaration; it is about political declaration, less centralism, less transfer of sovereignty, unless others decide for us and we decide what we are interested in for the benefit of the Greeks and the Greeks. I, frankly, had no hope that you would be able to understand it, because you only come here to warm the chair and to be exclusively slaves and servants of your masters. They're not in the service of the Greek people, they're not in the service of the Greek people! And the initiative was intended to demand that the German Government wish to exercise this. Unfortunately, we don't have a president who wants to do it, we have a president who prefers to be a reality commentator, come here to this Parliament to throw balloons out or ask the opposition, or to promote his person's outside. Unfortunately, that's what we have here in Galicia. I urge you: at the BNG we do not ask... you are sold to Madrid, to the labour reform – which they have approved for – the reform that establishes that negotiations must be done in Madrid, which preserves it – which is mostly Welsh – in Madrid. For you, that's your priority. They seem to do something when they don't have the slightest intention, they don't make a single move to change a field of competence that doesn't mean that the German Government takes decisions that others make. That's their reality. On the contrary, the Government of the People's Party, with Feijóo in the head, makes a policy of total and absolute dedication: that Madrid decides and Galicia assumes, that the European Union is sporeing and that Galicia decides, that there is a Spanish labour law that makes Galicia have the worst wages, the worst pensions, the worst labour relations. But the People's Party once again misses an opportunity to stand on the side of the German Government. I appreciate the support expressed by the Joint Group and the Alternative Left-Galga. We are not going to accept the Socialist Party's amendment because what we are talking about here today is to reverse the situation: that Galicia is self-responsible, and we want to self-responsibility. And that this Parliament wants to be the Parliament of Galicia; that is what the initiative is about. Therefore, the issues raised by the initiative will also have an opportunity to discuss them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u144	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Socialists of Galicia on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in the light of the reform of article 13.4 of the Law on Sexual and Reproductive Health and the voluntary interruption of pregnancy, requested by G.P. Popular in Congress of Deputies
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u145	No amendments were tabled. Mrs. Acuña has the floor for her defense.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u146	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies. Last Sunday, March 8, the streets of Santiago were filled with feminism, in a day of a demanding party that made it very clear that the women of Greece are fighting against the policies of the PP. And, therefore, the image of the mobilization was this, ladies: that of a tough, strong, challenging woman. An image which, by the way, has very little or nothing to do with Mucha and Nucha, which was used by the People's Party to commemorate that day. And I'm going to leave it there because I understand that the words go up. Women in the fight, and besides, together, because we were all. Well, all but one: the women of the People's Party. I wonder, ladies and gentlemen, what else does a government have to do for you to react? Don't you think enough, PP ladies, the loss of 50,900 jobs occupied by women since Feijóo arrived in the Government? Don't you think it's enough that one in four women in Galicia has a part-time contract, that the pay gap in our country has increased by two points above the national average, that 28 percent of women are at risk of poverty or social exclusion? Don't you think enough, PP ladies, the impact that cuts and privatizations of public services are having on women, cuts in education, health care, dependency, social services...? Don't you think, ladies, that we should all fight together for the same salary, but also for the same care? And don't you think we'd have to be fighting all together against gender-based violence, that intolerable malevolence? So tell us, ladies of the People's Party, where they were on March 8, because I'm afraid they were with Mucha and Nucha. And what do you think, PP ladies, of the legislative changes of your governments: retrograde changes, reactionaries, machoists and very repressive ones? Those educational reforms that turn us back to the Frankish era. These reforms in the Law on Sexual and Reproductive Health and the voluntary interruption of pregnancy that aim to sacrifice the younger women in the worst-reacting intolerance of the right, sector that seems to have a lot of weight both in Mr. Rajoy's Government and in Mr. Feijóo's Government, at least a lot more weight than we women have. It is intolerable that, when the elections arrive, the People's Party will again attack the dignity and rights of women, and that it will do so with this cowardice. It is clear that they dare not interfere with all of us, after such a powerful and massive reaction that there was before the previous attempt to change the law. So, now, they intend to do it by attacking only one part, the younger part and the weaker part, and also by the back door: by proposing, from the People's Group in Congress, the reform of article 13.4 of the Sexual and Reproductive Health Act and the voluntary interruption of pregnancy; on this occasion they didn't even dare to do so from the Government. But let's see what that article says and where the imperative need to change it is. Article 13.4 says that "In the case of women aged 16 and 17, consent to voluntary termination of pregnancy corresponds exclusively to them," to women themselves; but it also sets a condition: that at least one of the legal representatives will have to be informed of the decision taken by the woman, that is, they decide but report. Then that peacock argument that it can't be that my daughter aborts without me finding out is another lie. But that article of socialist law still says more, because it also collects the exception: "This information will be taken away when the least one makes a fundamental claim," you would say, "that this will lead to a serious conflict, manifested in the sure danger of domestic violence, threats, coercion, ill-treatment, or when a situation of destabilization or disappearance occurs." Well, ladies and gentlemen, the reform proposed by the People's Party is precisely to cancel that exception, which already has noses! But why does the law say what it says, and specifically that article? Because the Convention on the Rights of the Child and the Child collects the right of minors to be heard, noting that the closer the majority of children – as is the case with women aged 16 and 17 – their opinion, in addition, will have to be respected. And he says what he says because, in Spain, the legal framework for minors states that, since the age of 14, children have criminal responsibility, that is, they are already responsible for their acts before the law. And he says what he says because, in Spain, a 16-year-old person can join the labour market and he can, ladies and gentlemen, even get married; he can have weapons permits, he can have a hunting license, he can decide whether he wants to increase or reduce his breast, and he can decide on any matters related to his health. And, ladies and gentlemen, the voluntary interruption of pregnancy, especially in younger women, is a health matter, it's a health matter. But let's also see if that change is necessary. Let's see if things are not working well, and it turns out that all the young girls are having abortions one day and another, too, as if they were drinking a glass of water. Indeed, according to the report of the association of accredited clinics for termination of pregnancy, abortions performed in girls aged 16 and 17 years in 2014 were exactly 913, which represents 3.6% of all VTEs practiced. Of them, 87.62% of the cases were accompanied by their tutors, i.e., ladies and gentlemen, nine out of ten. And let's also consider the reasons why those who weren't accompanied by their tutors, that 0.44% of the total VAT practiced. Because the argument was as follows: family unemployment, broken families, parents in prison, ill-treatment, minor but emancipated immigrants, disability of the tutors. Do you really believe that it is necessary to modify this article to force 113 minors who have such painful circumstances to ask for permission on their body? Do you really consider it necessary? But besides, who are they going to ask for permission, who is hitting them? Have you thought, perhaps, in the case of a child-protected child, who will be the one to think about his body?, the officer of the juvenile centre?, will he be the one to decide on his maternity? And if she's married, who's the husband or father? What if the minor was an object of incestuous sexual abuse? Because one in four teenagers is a victim of sexual abuse, and around 80% of sexual abuse occurs in the family. What do we do in those cases, PP ladies? Do you perhaps expect the minor to have to ask permission from that incestuous tutor, whatever he decides about his pregnancy? Because that, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, that's what your reform aims to reverse the exceptions. And I end with a question for the ladies of the People's Party: don't you honestly think that this change will lead those desperate minors to clandestine abortion and marginalization? And not only theirs, but also theirs and theirs. Well, to avoid that, it's what we ask you to do, PP ladies, your vote, our vote, yours and all, because you and I will avoid that change. I look forward to your support, for now and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u147	Thank you, Mrs. Acuña. Mrs. Acuña, Mrs. Acuña, the cartel.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u148	It's a present, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u149	No, no.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u150	But if it bothers you, I'll take it. No problem.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u151	Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Iglesias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u152	Good morning. Thank you very much, President. The Government fulfils one of its electoral promises: to present the amendment of the Law on Sexual and Reproductive Health and the voluntary interruption of pregnancy in its article 13.4 – referring to the assimilation of 16 and 17-year-old women with the age of 18– and to eliminate the current recital indicating that it is women who have to decide on the interruption of our pregnancy, indicating that at least one of the legal representatives of women in those ages should be informed, "unless the minor argues fundamentally that abortion will cause a serious conflict, manifested in the true danger of domestic violence, threats, coercion, ill-treatment, or when a situation of rooting or disappearance occurs". The state protected, by current law, all those women who live in a state of deprotection so that they could decide for themselves and not be forced, by someone else, by effect and family support, to carry out an unwanted pregnancy. So the change that the Government wants will only affect this group, obviously a minority, because – although they want to present the opposite – here we all abort: lists and non-lists, left and right lists, parents and orphans. Here we all abort! According to the last study of the association of accredited clinics for termination of pregnancy, the current proposal to modify PP would leave 113 women unprotected between January and November 2014. That is, 0.44% of the total number of women who underwent an interruption of pregnancy during that period – 12.38% of women aged 16 and 17 –. This data shows how unnecessary this change is. For the election period, we must walk... now comes a fag in there from the Providas, who will protest – go Esperanza Aguirre, I guess. The first reason this is useless is because it's to feed your electorate further, contrary to the right to abortion. This measure is an aperitif – you will see in the manifesto – in front of its voracity. Let's remember that the evil so-called Provuda movements hold claims that go far beyond Gallardón's proposal. And this honourable Member wants to make it clear that it goes far beyond the proposal of the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party, even though it will support free and free abortion already. Well, they've already said they're not happy about these ultras, nothing at all. And the second reason we're going to think about the reasons for the abolition of this right that affects such a small number. But a number that has the need for very high protection, and also causes a number of questions and contradictions. In Spain, the Civil Code has been reformed setting the age of 16 to obtain the emancipation and regimen of the person and the goods, as if they were older, requiring parental or guardian's permission for many occasions, such as asking for a loan, transmitting goods... 16 years old, if they do not want to undergo an operation or treatment – e.g. oncologic –, girls can decide it, and if they want to do in their body all the surgeries, all the many aesthetic surgeons offered themselves in the world, they can too. But abort, abort, no! As a matter of fact, the minimum age for marriage was raised in the same reform. From now on, can 16 to 17-year-olds abort if they decide or need parental permission to do so? We are awaiting the reform of the Criminal Code, in which the Government itself wants to raise the minimum age for consent of sexual relations to 16 years. But as long as it doesn't approve, from the 13th they can consent to these relationships, but abort, for no reason. Maybe 13 years is an age that is excessively reduced in terms of consent to sexual relations. Although we remain as consolation that in the Vatican state – that was so democratic, so wonderful, with so many rights for women! – most of the age for having sexual relations – suspicious data – and consented, are 12 years old. Squealing. By the way, what if there's an impossible assumption of a 16- or 17-year-old woman, single, not emancipated, in rooting, helplessness or disstructuring that she can abort, what do we do, put her in a reformatory? And when I'm 18, I'm going to jail soon! Because abortion is still in the penal code, huh, we can't forget this. And with the medical staff who practiced the abortion, what, jail? I'm done, president. This latter one seems increasingly complicated, because with so much impediment it will be impossible for anyone who practices these abortions to be medical personnel. Everything seems to indicate that these abortions, which will undoubtedly occur, will be clandestine. Free and free abortion! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u153	Thank you, Mrs Iglesias. Parliamentary Group of the Galician Nationalist Block, Mrs. Adam.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u154	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. During the year 2014 we discussed in this Parliament, on repeated occasions, a text that Mr Feijóo – February 26, 2014 – did not want to call "pre-project law" and called "initial text", in which he was completely modified – i.e., he withdrew – the current law on sexual and reproductive health of women, and that concept of conception and rights was introduced. There have been many repeated occasions when we brought to this House the need to reflect on what the voluntary interruption of pregnancy meant. And I was reviewing the Journal of Sessions of Parliament, the questions to the President, and as Mr Feijó himself spoke about the need to completely modify the current law, it was even a debate that was plagued by interruptions by many, essentially, Members of this House, and many of the Members of the People's Party who supported Mr Feijóo at that time, when he defended the amendment of the law. I think it's a victory, and from here we have to bless all those women – and also the men – who were on the streets to get that draft law to stop. To achieve even that a minister had abandoned his office for his intrusion in modifying a right to decide of the women who were already collected in the legislation. But, of course, recognizing this victory of the feminist movement, and of the women's movements, today we find ourselves with that People's Party – in the time of the discount remaining in that legislation – wants to modify – as was said here – that article 13 in its fourth paragraph. Because if we pick up different statements, I'm going to pick up those of Feijóo – because I suppose it will be what marks the vote position here today by the People's Party – he said it was a moral problem – exactly said at that session on February 26, 2014 – and that in moral matters there is no possibility of agreeing. It's not a moral problem. In this case it will be a moral problem of the decision that each woman adopts, which, as we have read perfectly, is clearly collected in that fourth paragraph. What it is, it's a problem – it's also said from this forum – health care. And besides, besides health care, it is a problem of family relationships, and in this case family relationships with a lot of violence, because – what is said in the report that we know and that has already been quoted by the people who preceded me in the use of the word – one of ten girls who make use of the voluntary interruption of pregnancy and do not inform their mother, father or legal representative, they do so by addressing the problems of serious coexistence they have. So I ask you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party: if a 16- or 17-year-old girl lives in an environment of family violence that prevents her parents, her parents, her parents, from the situation she is living, what does she condemn to the legal amendment that is now being done by the People's Party? To clandestineness, because that girl won't inform her family, of course, and she'll look for some other channel, probably for nothing sanitary, for nothing safe, to voluntarily interrupt the pregnancy. So, the same girls who can marry, the same girls who can work, in a situation of family violence, you're going to leave you helpless, you're really going to have to go underground to find a solution to a problem of violence. Because I think it's very important to know and know exactly what the text says, because the text that you're going to modify says you're going to dispense with information to parents or mothers in a situation where the minor claims a serious conflict, where he claims to be in danger of family violence. And, as we see, that's what's happening: only one out of every ten who are living that situation is meeting this assumption. You, by giving a few crumbs to the groups more ultras, more abundant – who are unable to see the situation of this girl – in view of the impossibility of reforming the Abortion Law as they wanted, will leave the girls helpless. And I, from an extra gallery, also mean that sometimes here we always hear the People's Party talk... imagine that a mother or a father... I am the mother of a 17-year-old girl, I'm clear that, if she doesn't inform me or her father of that situation, it's not who the state forbids her to make that decision, it's not. Because a family problem doesn't solve a law -- which in article 13.4 was trying to find a way out for girls -- and you try to get the state to solve a family problem by penalizing them, expeling them into hiding. Really, in conscience...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u155	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u156	...and if you really think it's a moral problem, think about the prohibition that girls are going to vote for, they're going to give up girls who live in more serious situations. As long as we don't go in, we'd have to talk a lot and there's not enough of those five minutes, which means there's no kind of sexual and emotional education in public education. That's really one of the lacres we were living in.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u157	Thank you, Mrs. Adam.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u158	I really do, in view of this, of course, that they will count on our vote in favour; but if it is a moral problem, you should vote for this initiative today.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u159	Thank you, Mrs. Adam. Parliamentary Group of the Alternative Glaga de Left, Mrs Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u160	Thank you, President. We will obviously support this proposal, not by law. It is a pity that in the multiple institutional initiatives, initiatives to wash our faces – we will debate one – the PP forgets to talk about trying again to cut our rights. It's a pity that while women – different: girls, older, but all empowered – we scream on the street on March 8 for our rights, you – those of your party – prefer to be in an institutional act, and even try to hinder the act organized by feminists; not in vain, the Town Council itself of Compostela, of its color, did not facilitate even energy to plug in a sad microphone, that messed-up council of corruption. It's a pity they're out of society, as always; it's not in vain that you're reactionaries. It is a pity especially for the women on the right, because we – the feminists – are already used to fighting against the current. We're used to having their holy boys against us, bastards who hide behind a moral assumption to cut down our rights, rights that don't affect them, but those who deprive us of us and who, even in the case of minors, can ruin their lives. They are the same ones who cut off policies for gender-based violence, the same ones who compete in prostitution for GDP. You are the same people who legislate by facilitating dismissal and cutting into wages and labor rights for women. It's you who facilitate unemployment, precariousness and temporality to unsuspected limits, even partial days of 25% of women and a pay gap of around 25%. The same ones that expel our girls to emigration while they take responsibility for them, make them responsible for their low birth and demographic problems. They're the same ones that now tell girls that they can't abort. We feminists are used to it because they are also the same ones who cut back on dependency, social services, but above all because you are the same as you who filed an appeal at the Constitutional Court against the Law of Suspects, that Mr. Gallardón's father. They are the same ones who filed an appeal against the Law on Sexual and Reproductive Health before the Constitutional in 2010. We don't forget because the resource is unfortunately still in motion, because you didn't remove it either. And that means we have to keep working for our right to decide whether to be mothers or not, but also, because of our right to enjoy our own sexuality. And now, when the feminists have managed – we have succeeded – to take over their counter-reform, even causing the resignation of the Minister of Justice, you feel in electoral debt with the most ultra-electoral sector of your electorate. And just as they do -- they say yesterday -- by announcing hepatitis treatments that they don't plan to fund, here they also play with people's rights for their electoral benefit, taking into account their ethical and political lowness. By the way, I don't know where they are from the People's Party, that they are from the People's Party, when we have to defend the sick people in this case of hepatitis C. I don't know where that wolf lives when they voted against the treatments for hepatitis C of people who may die. They use women's rights, therefore, for the electoral market, presenting a counter-reform reactionary, patriarchal and paternalist to limit children under 16 and 17 with family problems that can decide whether they want to be mothers or not. In that, it has already been explained here, only nine out of ten teenagers abort without parental and maternal permission. It defends the PP an absurd counter-reform, using 0.44% of women who resort to voluntary termination of pregnancy, but that 0.44% of women can ruin their lives, because we talk about girls – as we said here – who live in situations of family violence, family abandonment or who have no family in the country they are living in. Therefore, deprive them of this right – I repeat, which only those who have problems – can afford to endanger their lives, expose them to a situation of violence or prevent them from actually gaining access to their rights. It's unbearable that you assume to limit this right. I suppose they're going to vote against today. It is a pity for their daughters, their nieces, their sisters. It's a pity for yourself, for your kind of moral catapult and for your kind of political catapult. There's no pity for us because the feminists are already used to it and we'll keep fighting.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u161	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs Rodríguez-Vispo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u162	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. The initiative brought to this House today by the Socialist Party and which we have just heard is the object of withdrawing a bill that has not even been presented in this Chamber. I wonder, Your Honor, what would happen if, from Madrid, they wanted to prevent us from discussing some kind of initiative and they wanted us to withdraw an initiative that you, for example, presented in this House. You should hear what you would say in that case: they don't give us freedom, they won't let us talk, they won't let us debate. [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]] The People's Group of the Congress of Deputies, in all its right, has presented an initiative which is, of course, likely to debate, improve, bring together new approaches, change it, withdraw it... but within its proper scope, which is that of the General Courts. You guys there have representatives of your party and we have them too, and we feel represented by them, I suppose you too. This is a controversial issue, as we have said many times, and there are very different points of view. We can't use impositions, not one or the other, based on personal and individual principles, but rather on a law that is consistent with the Constitution and respectful of the rights of all and, above all, valid for most of society. I know that memory is fragile, but you will remember, Mrs. Acuña, how many socialist leaders have revealed themselves against the liberalization of abortion in minors. I repeat in the hemerothecas what his colleagues said – and I'm not talking about twenty-five years ago – I'm talking about five years ago. Many voices within the Socialist Party disagreed, and much, about this article that is intended to be modified. This article that has caused a social alarm and a fundamental concern in all sectors of society, especially in parents and mothers, which do not see it reasonable to be asked to have a father, mother or guardian's permission to make a tattoo, and not to submit to an IVE; to be asked to travel abroad, for example, and not to submit to an IVE; to be asked to go on a tour, to enter a casino or a bingo, and not to submit to an IVE. But the Government did not listen and continued the processing and, on the other hand, the People's Party had included him in the electoral program he presented. From there comes this bill presented in the General Courts, as I say, in the words of the spokesman of our group in Madrid: "because we had begun a process of a text which was certainly complex and on which there was a huge social response and discrepancies, and we wanted there to be a social consensus in this. In such a sensitive matter as this, what we seek is the greatest consensus and the greatest social support. And I believe that there are Members and Members of other political formations who agree with this which we are presenting today." Actually... No, I'm reading the words, and he said them in Spanish. [[Murmurs.]] [[Interruptions.]] I read literally, if I have no problem speaking in English, as I'm already demonstrating, it seems to me. In fact, there are parties that today, as is the PNV – the Basque Nationalist Party – that did not vote against the presentation of this initiative because it has always manifested its doubts, and other parties, such as Convergence i Unió, who will give free voting. [[Murmurs.]] Finally, it also refers to the exercise of power and, in fact, part of the text gives the same explanation: "It is not only about the protection of the child, but its care includes the essential core of all these legal figures; and thus the Civil Code, both in article 154, establishes that between the duties and powers of the exercise of the parental power it is to "veal them, have them in their company, feed them, educate them and seek their integral training", as in article 269, which provides that "the guardian is obliged to watch for the guardian". Ladies and gentlemen, what is actually evident is that the amendment referred to in Organic Law 2/2010 "implies parents and guardians to comply with the obligation set out in the Civil Code". We agree, we agree with the data, I agree with their figures, and only 0.4% of minors are subject to an IV without authorization. That's why we think that you're trying to make the general rule out of the exception, and that you're trying to make an extraordinary fact normal. And these exceptional cases – which may have them, unfortunately – are already covered by the law and always taking into account the interests of the child. The Parliamentary Group of the People's Party is fully aware that in society, as stated at the outset, there are multiple sensibilities that must be respected because they are many and very different – not only those of the People's Party or those of the Socialist Party – and that within each party there are different sensibilities: not all women and men of the People's Party think the same, nor do all women and men of the Socialist Party think the same. From which from the People's Group we are fully confident...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u163	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u164	...the end, Mr. President—is that all parents and mothers want the best for their daughters. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u165	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez-Vispo. Author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Acuña.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u166	Thank you, Mr. President. Firstly, I would like to thank the groups for their support. That shows the consensus that exists with the request to keep the law as it is today. As for the People's Parliamentary Group, well, I will continue to insist on the Members of the People's Party because I think they would have to be more careful to help and protect the other women, especially the weaker and weaker women. With regard to the speech made by the honourable Member of this group, the truth is that the poor excuse is that what we think we do not know? Look, I remind you that, precisely, it was your group that, while Mr Zapatero was in the Government, in this House in all plenarys he presented initiatives to urge the Government of the State. In fact, the People's Party speaks of the Civil Code, article 154, which sets out the duties and powers of power: to watch for them, to have them in their company, to feed them, to educate them and to provide them with comprehensive training. Come on, exactly the care you receive every day from these 113 girls from your tutors; that's exactly what, Madam, and if you don't ask them. Because your reform does not include exceptions, Madam, it does not include exceptions. Before voting, ladies and gentlemen, think of the need for a change to 0.44% of the total abortions, those of minors with very serious family problems. Before voting, PP ladies, think of the unfair measure that will sacrifice the most undervalided women to please not the sensibility but the most reactionary voters in the ranks of the People's Party. Before voting, PP ladies, they think of the cruelty of reform that leaves smaller women in the hands of bullies, abusers and violent, and that leads them to clandestineness and marginalization. Before voting, they think that the right to decide about maternity is implicit in being a person and that women are people, we are citizens of full right also at the age of 16 and 17, although at that age – and as the law is now – should inform their tutors. Before you vote, ladies and gentlemen of the PP, think about what, for that change?, to win a handful of votes? Well, look, if that's why, they're going to have to give him a ride back because maybe it's not even electorally useful. Look, those who want...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u167	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u168	...–remote– and demanding sacrifices will not be satisfied with the maids, they love us all; and for the others this measure gives an image of a masquerading, retrograde, reactionary, inquisitive and tremendously unjust PP. [[Murmurs.]] So think about and support this initiative. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u169	Thank you, Mrs. Acuña. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. Popular of Galicia, at the initiative of Da Berta Pérez Hernández and Da Rosa Oubigna Solla, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in relation to harassment, sexual abuse and discrimination of women in sport and the promotion of women's sport
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u170	This motion for a non-law has been tabled three amendments: one from the Socialist Parliamentary Group, one from the Parliamentary Group of the Galician Left Alternative and one from the Parliamentary Group of the Galician Nationalist Block.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u171	For the defense of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Oubina has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u172	Thank you, Mr. President. Welcome to all those who accompany us here today in this gallery. I want to start by saying that one of the challenges of society is to achieve real and objective equality. From the perspective of gender, sport and physical education are a right that must benefit society as a whole on equal terms. However, it is true, there continue to be differences linked – like not? – to the gender structure. And in that sense, we bring here today this non-law proposal, which was amended by the opposition groups, in order to urge the Government to continue to implement new measures to further promote and enhance female sport, to promote new measures of visualization and social awareness that promote equality values, to develop a new protocol for prevention and detention against sexual harassment in sport. Certainly, women's incorporation into sport was a slow process. Today, although progress is significant, it is not fully consolidated. Many are the legislation, in that sense, which pursues a more equal social transformation with measures that were collected both in the Brighton Declaration and in the Manifesto for Women's Equality and Participation in Sport in 2009, and more recently in the Conclusions of the Council of Europe on Gender Equality in Sport. They all call for the removal of obstacles and stereotypes that hinder real equality. Sport is not alien to this reality and, both because of its educational and media potential, represents an engine of social change to promote equality. Several studies show that there are still major differences in women's participation in different sports areas: wage differences, differences in social impact and differences, too, in media coverage – which is smaller in women's sports –. We have come to accept as normal situations that, in fact, are of inequality. And we could ask ourselves why women practice less sports activities than men, why there are fewer Physical Education graduates, why there are fewer elite trainers, fewer referees, less club presidents or federations. Perhaps some of the answers are found in the following data: that, at the national level, in all sports modes – both school and university or high-performance – the number of men who practice or are linked to sport almost doubles the number of women, and that the abandonment of sports practice at the school level mainly affects the female population, and often that abandonment is due to lack of family support, which continues to identify sport with an activity that is more specific to girls than girls. In Galicia this situation is getting better, Galicia bets on equality in sport, I think it's clear. With reference to the data collected in a report jointly prepared by the Galego Sport Foundation, the General Secretariat for Sport and the University of Compostela, sports practice has increased in recent years, passing – in percentage terms – by 55% that was practiced in 2007 to almost 71% of Welsh and Welsh who are engaged in physical, sporting activities at present. In women this increase was remarkable: almost 17% more than 15% of men. If we refer to the number of female licenses per federation, it has increased in all forms of sports, such as – some – athletics, basketball, balloon, cycling or even football. These good data are fruit – like not? – of incorporating into the agreements signed by the Joint benchmarks that are specific to promote the promotion of women's sport. We are therefore faced with the best data in recent years, and we can say that both basic sport and high-competitive sport in Galicia – and this government has been sponsoring – have a woman's name. And I say they have a woman's name because they have great and recognized sportsmen, who are a clear example for the Greeks and the Greeks. Therefore, in the sense of continuing to move forward and further improving – and thus collecting it into our initiative – we want to continue articulating campaigns, new awareness campaigns, new information campaigns directed to families, aimed at eliminating cultural barriers, and incorporating more the gender perspective aimed at correcting these inequalities and eliminating all kinds of stereotypes – and thus we demonstrate it and collect it at the fifth point – and, above all, with much more careful use of images as well as of the language used in these campaigns. As for the reference, which is not minor, but is considered the essential part of this non-law proposal, it is harassment and sexual abuse. These two issues are not foreign to the field of sport, nor are they foreign to the centres where it takes place. We cannot, under any concept – in any way – tolerate this type of delicious conduct being repeated or carried out in practice in the field of sport. Sexual harassment attacks freedom, attacks the physical integrity and dignity of people. Harassment and sexual abuse in sports, without any doubt, is a trauma. It is a trauma that affects the development of personality, the physical and psychological state of all people who suffer from it, and that is difficult to overcome in time, especially when victims are minor or suffer from some disability. These kinds of asymmetric and vertical relationships between professionals in the sports world and people who practice it, we believe that they should be used in a positive way to establish limits, to form, to give security and to strengthen measures of respect; used negatively give rise to reprehensible conduct and abusive conduct such as ill-treatment, harassment and sexual abuse. In view of this reality, various bodies, such as the World Conference on Women and Sport, the European Parliament or the Council of Europe, urge Member States and federations to take measures to eliminate these forms of violence, ensuring a safe and supportive environment for women who participate in all levels of sport. In this sense, we propose – taking into account these recommendations – the development of a protocol to prevent possible situations of harassment and sexual abuse in sport which clearly establishes the scope of application to this type of conduct for all sports staff – child, youth and adult – with procedures for action against signs and situations of abuse, with measures of prevention, but, above all, incorporating training, information and awareness-raising, which promotes, above all, a social context of rejection of any kind of violence, harassment or abuse of sport. Finally, it draws up a clear description of potential risks associated with sports activities, as well as possible preventive measures. To finish and sum up, the philosophy of this initiative would pick it up in four points: to promote and enhance women's sport as an effective tool for eliminating gender stereotypes and achieving equality between women and men; to promote the prevention of violence, harassment and sexual abuse in sport from childhood; to always integrate gender perspectives into public sports development programmes – in all areas and at all levels – and, ultimately, to ensure women's non-discrimination in this area. Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u173	Thank you very much. Intervention of parliamentary groups. For the Galician Nationalist Block, Mrs. Adam Villamarin has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u174	Thank you, President. We listened carefully to Mrs. Oubina's intervention, and I'm still quite surprised that she didn't even have the deference to make a reference to the three players in the Pontevedra Law who had the courage, the courage! to denounce the harassment they suffered, the sexual harassment they suffered on their team. [[Murmurs.]] Well, I think this is the space to recognize that bravery, because being a girl, having the president of your club who is really insulting you and is getting rid of your self-esteem, is a bravery to report it. Once these girls have been denounced, which reaches the institutions through the World Women's March, which has been supporting them, they have brought this issue to the Pontevedra Parliament. And right now, how is the situation? Both the Secretary-General for Equality and Mr Lete undertook to carry out a protocol; they told the players involved directly and the World Women's March, they said in Commission 5th and Commission 1st. Just three weeks ago, Mr. Lete committed himself – the questions of the Galego Nationalist Block – to a protocol against sexual harassment in sport and also to a study that this protocol was not bound to comply with so as not to receive public subsidies in case of non-compliance, which is what is really fundamental to a protocol, not just its elaboration. Because there are protocols against sexual abuse in known sport: there is one that is put into operation in Catalonia, the most known is that of Finland; that is, we know those protocols. So, if you're here to ask the Government for something the Government has already committed to carrying out, which is the elaboration of that protocol... Then on the following points, look, this is already in the Equality Law; as you collect it is in the Equality Law, the realization of the promotion of women's sport is at all conventions about the importance of this promotion of women's sport. What is curious is that in the face of a particular case, when Mr Lete committed himself in this Parliament to the fact that the tokens of these players would be free in the same week, three weeks later they are still children. Those players don't play on their team, they can't play on another team, because they're still kids. So, we're not talking abstractly, Madam, we're talking about specific cases, about the reality that girls and girls live when they play in many federations. What's going on? That, fortunately, these girls were able to report it and today we're talking about specific cases. I mean, are you prepared that these players will have their free tokens next week? They've been waiting for a month, they've got the secretary general's commitment to the sport they'll be able to play, and they can't play yet. You don't have anything to say about the president of the football team being president? It's no other than the sentence, which recognizes, moreover, that the fact that it's not a criminal matter is morally reprehensible. Don't you think you should have taken a step since the Deputy of Pontevedra and the General Secretariat for Sport so that this gentleman won't remain president of this club? Wouldn't that really be a commitment to equality? I mean, this question doesn't happen here today by chance, it has a story, and a story that affects people, girls, names and names. That's why, first, recognition for them. And secondly, that fight against sexual harassment in sports will be effective when it compromises budgets that the federations have. Maybe one of the areas where machismo lives the most is in sports, all of which we all know. He read an exemplary article, published a few months ago, in this regard, where women sportsmen, many of them working with the Welsh Association of women sportsmen, defined women in sport, or flowering women, or marimachos. And that's something that survives. I mean, or they're delivering the medals...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u175	Finish it, Mrs. Adam, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u176	...or they're delivering the trophies, or we know what the comments exist in any football field. We just have to get anywhere near the base football one Saturday and listen to what is told to girls who practice football. And I hear it very often.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u177	Thank you very much, Mrs. Adam.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u178	Therefore, Madam, your initiative does not add anything to current laws. The theme is: Will the Government of Greece commit to those clubs that practice sexual harassment to sportsmen in their budgets?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u179	Thank you very much, Mrs. Adam. Your time is over. Alternative Left-Galga. You have the word Eva Solla says.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u180	Thank you, President. Once again, we're faced with a sort of initiative... we could call it a purple tie, which is what you bring around March 8th and November 25th. Initiatives of whom the rest of the year alone contributes to the lack of equality, working against women's rights, as we have just seen in the previous initiative. Today, perhaps, this initiative goes further and is almost insulting, not by the content itself, but for the moment, because the initiative practically does nothing. It has been said here that this group has been reporting since November this case of sexual harassment of football players in the Leis Chamber, and in principle – we have already commented on it in Commission 5a itself – we ask the Administration to help solve the problem by speaking to the Secretariat of Equality itself, before resorting to bringing any initiative to this Parliament. However, it took two weeks to get in touch with the players, one of the people affected, and the posteriority of what they did was absolutely nothing. Then, when we brought the initiative to the Commission, they were offended because we said the Administration was not doing anything. As far as we were concerned with the answer we were given, they seemed to understand that it had to be settled by law. However, the judgment itself – which is now under way – said that the issue should be resolved through the social channels and through the work of the Administration. Administration which, however, ignores the problems that are being reported, when what was asked were minimally political actions and responsibilities, not legal ones. They're not even able to take care of their political responsibilities! I, of course, would have been a secretary of equality, and within my mandate if I had allowed harassment to some player or some sportsman, I would have had to resign. And they don't understand – even if you've already been warned – that the club, the alleged aggressor, has kidnapped the federative tokens of the players; that girls, in addition to harassment, humiliation, that they insult them, that they're called "guises", "Lesbian", that they're released condoms, that they make comments about their body, have to endure abuse by the Administration, that not only does deaf ears, but that they promise things that the latter doesn't do. In committee they lied, two weeks ago, saying that the card was already done. The reality is that as of today these girls, those girls, they can't go to play any other club because this club has kidnapped its federal record. Today, this initiative is a provocation and an insult to those families and those girls who are really going through it, because -- as you said here -- it's already serious enough, you have to have enough courage to denounce it, so then, even above, if you promise things that you don't do, and it seems like you bring this here to do something about it. So our group is asking for real action and no sun, and we are presenting an initiative in which it is requested that the federations to which it provides, as an exceptional measure, be urged that in cases of harassment, ethical conflict or social problem reported by players or sportsmen, they may have their card and leave the club, the team. There's no justification for maintaining this situation of violence. We demand that the limitation of access to executive and other positions be regulated to aggressors and stalkers in which the case is already proven, because today there are still teams and clubs that are led by officials responsible for harassment issues. In addition, we demand that public subsidies be conditional upon that there are no cases of harassment or gender-based violence in entities, because it continues to be without a condition for access to a public grant; something that should be disgraced at this point. Be careful to comply with the laws of prevention of gender-based violence itself, because...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u181	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u182	...all these measures should be considered in the measures which the Administration should already be taking under those laws. And, of course, to report annually on the measures they take, because really what they bring here today is a toast to the sun to do absolutely nothing, so that everything continues as it has so far. Ladies and gentlemen, the second worst thing to do with sexual harassment is to promote the secondary victim's victim victimization. And with your vote...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u183	Finish it, Mrs. Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u184	...if today they don't accept the amendments and they don't do anything to solve this problem and the situation in which these girls are, what they're targeting is that secondary victimization. Speaking of sports, ladies, now the ball is...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u185	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u186	...on his roof.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u187	Socialist Group. Mrs. Hold on.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u188	Thank you, President. Good morning again, gentlemen. To say that for us this initiative is intolerable, Madam President. It is intolerable by its content, or, better said, by its lack of content, especially when it is an initiative that is part of the parliamentary group that supports the Government. But yet, Madam, it is more intolerable for the intention that it is presented, which is nothing more than to attempt to justify and cover up the inaction and passivity of the Government Feijóo in the face of sexual abuse and masculine violence that is spreading to its broads in the German sport. And this disincentive, Madam, is already beginning with the justification for urgency, which says, "in the need for Parliament to stand as soon as possible on women's access to and promotion in sport." They'll have to position themselves! for the PSdEG-PSOE is very positioned in this matter and for a long time, as demonstrated by the multiple initiatives presented in that line in this House, always rejected by the People's Party, and also by the continuing amendments we tabled to the budgets on that line, also always rejected by the People's Party. But you have no waste, Madam, the explanatory statement, where you speak to us of the apparent equality. I wonder where you live. Of course, the People's Party may call it equal to this: a sports magazine, 53 pages, where you can read about male football, male motor sports, boy sports fairs, two small remakes of two sportsmen, an athlete and a tennis player, but what you can see in these magazines, ladies and gentlemen, is in counter-portraits a great lady who seems to have made a small leap of height. Perhaps this is the apparent equality of the People's Party. Look, Your Honor, it is very clear that behind this initiative is the PP's attempt to wash Mr. Lete's face, Secretary General of Sport, Mrs. López, Secretary of Equality and President-President, Mr. Louzán, for not responding to the complaint about the abuse they have on the table. Madam President, precisely those asymmetric and absolutely unequal relationships between a young sportsman and a president of a club, masquerade and stalker, are the ones that a just, equal and democratic administration cannot protect or consent, as the Government of Feijóo is doing. Because consenting was what the Secretary General of Equality did when, in the face of this complaint of sexual harassment by the chairman of the Football Club Laws on some players, he merely said it was a very ugly, very ugly matter. But of course, since she was on trial, she couldn't do anything, and passed the ball to the Secretary General of Sport. What did Mr. Lete do? Well, lying is a threat. To threaten by ensuring that he would put solutions whenever there was no media noise on that matter, that he would send a trick!, trick order! And lie, because you said here, in this House, that you would immediately release those players. The same as always in relation to male violence: removing the victim and staying in his place, delighted to have met, that abusive and abusive president. But they didn't even grant him that freedom. And what did the Flemish President-President, President bis, the President of the Parliament and the Football Federation do? Check it out, say he didn't have any competences. However, if you have the competence to fill the entire province with artificial grass football fields or announce that you would double the subsidies and bring them to all clubs whenever you voted for it, including that bully lord. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And so that you don't lack details...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u189	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u190	...now comes the Popular Parliamentary Group with this proposal. Look, Madam, is there a protocol to prevent? I have to tell you that you are mandated by the Higher Council of Sports to carry out this protocol. But besides, we're not talking about predicting, here we're talking about solving a sexual harassment problem that you have on the table. So that protocol to prevent...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u191	End, Mrs. Acuña, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u192	...it won't solve anything. Finished, Madam President. If you want to do something about sexual harassment and masculine violence in sports, there's our amendment, which makes real proposals.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u193	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u194	To cover up the disgraces of the Government, it doesn't hold with us. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u195	Thank you very much, Mrs. Acuña. Joint Group. Mrs. Churches.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u196	Thank you, President. Madam Oubina, the importance of sport as a contribution to the empowerment of women and girls is undeniable. Because sports practice allows women and girls to train to be the best, increasing their abilities and confidence. But inequality and sexism persist and deprive women of that potential. And this initiative that you put forward today in the Chamber does nothing to solve these impediments to women's empowerment in sport. A study by the United Kingdom concluded that only around 0.5 % of commercial sponsorships are intended for women's sport. As a matter of fact, women's sport earns only 5% of media coverage, and 43% of adolescents consider that they do not have enough female models of conduct. Inequality in sport is also manifested in wage gaps; in the way it is given coverage in the media, which focuses more on appearance than performance; in the lack of equitable access to all facilities and sports teams; in training times and coaches; in competences, finance and in scarce representation and leadership in sports institutions. Only about 10 percent of positions in management councils are women. If we type in Google "Spanish athletes", the immediate suggestions of the search tool are "more beautiful" or "uncovered". If you enter "Spanish athletes" no one gets naked and the Olympic word appears. Do you imagine a quill made up of female football matches, that a woman is president of the Celta? You can't, you can't imagine that, and you don't owe yourself to a lack of imagination, but you owe it to an overdose of reality. Much of the discrimination in sport is invisible, and sexism only comes out with scandals, as is happening with Club Laws of Football Room Pontevedra. If it wasn't for the scandal, we wouldn't know. A great impediment to equality in sport is in its own legislation. Article 24 of Royal Decree 1835/1991 states that there can only be a professional league for each sport and sex mode, but this remains to the discretion of not knowing who so that in football there are no sports professionals, professional footballers. So women are relegated to the category of amateurs in this field. Look, if there's no professional league, it's a big problem because there's no deal, there's no employer or rights. Many footballers, which is the sport in which this happens most, charge in B – this certainly sounds to them – in envelopes, wages ranging between 400 and 800 euros a month; they have no contract and therefore do not contribute, and if they don't contribute, when they hurt them they have very cruel, because, or they pay a private doctor, which, with the wages they receive, they see it very unlikely, or they stay with the injury and they're going to put hot cloth around there. Well, if laws don't change, Mrs. Oubina, equality is a chimera, and this non-law proposal is completely contentless. Except for the first point, which has already been dealt with in other areas of this Parliament and which the Government has committed to drawing up this protocol, it will not count on this Member's support. Thank you very much. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u197	Thank you, Mrs Iglesias. Group author of the non-law proposal. You have the floor to Mrs. Oubina. Excuse me, please speak to Mrs Oubina's chair.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u198	Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u199	Sorry, Mrs. Oubina. Wait a minute. Please give a voice to Mrs. Oubina's chair.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u200	Thank you, Madam President. We mean we regret and condemn every act of harassment or violence in sport, as it can't be any other way. As for the players in the Women's Football Club Leis, who said Mrs. Adam that I didn't refer to them, I wanted to do this here in the replica and say that this Parliament has made many explanations from the Secretary General of Sport and from the Secretary General of Equality. On this subject, explanations were made in this regard. He knows that this case is in legal form and that it really is up to him to resolve in this regard. And we have good news, that this week these players will be released, so they're working on this. We regret that for the opposition groups all the initiatives presented here by the People's Group are a toast to the sun, they do not serve anything, they come to occupy a space... individually, I may like what you present more or less, but, of course, I don't think they are any toast to the sun or not for anything, but you present the initiatives you want. And to say, Mrs. Acuña, when you present the AS, the AS is from the PRESS Group, it's nothing that represents the Popular Group. And if you don't like the artificial grass football fields that are in Pontevedra, we also count on a woman in Pontevedra who is the president of a football club. So, these measures that we bring today, ultimately, their urgency is justified in solving the case of these women's football players of the Law. [[Applause]] In that sense, they are also part of the amendments presented by the opposition group here today. And already in position with the amendments that you submit, in relation to BNG, we accept, if you consider them, adding, at the end of point 1 of our non-law proposal, this as you propose, "which said protocol will be required to receive public assistance from the Administration." We agree to add as a new point another one that says, "The Government will assume Brighton's statement about women and sports and plan actions to comply with it." We do not accept the part that you say you accept the Manifesto of Equality in Sport by the Higher Council of Sports, which is from 2009, because one is being drafted by the General Secretariat of Equality, and by Sports, in this sense, right for Galicia. As far as he's concerned...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u201	Mr. Oubina, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u202	I'm done, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u203	Just tell me if you accept the rest of the amendments.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u204	I'll take a part if...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u205	So, if you like, you can talk about it while we do the following votes...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u206	But it's only one AGE. I'm allowed. That is, from AGE we are willing to accept point 3 as adding towards next 2016, because this year would not be possible, and the others are already collected, to some extent, in other terms. Those of the Socialist Party are also collected...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u207	That's it, Mrs. Oubina. Thank you very much. They don't accept the amendments.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u208	...and we invite you to support this initiative as presented. [[Applause]] Voting of non-legislative proposals
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u209	We passed the vote on the non-law proposals. We began with the first of the proposals from the Joint Parliamentary Group, at the initiative of Mrs Iglesias Sueiro, which no amendments were tabled. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. Together, at the initiative of Da Carme Iglesias Sueiro, on the request of the Government of Greece to the Central Government for the reduction of VAT in cultural activities. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. This proposal is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u210	We are voting on the proposal from the Parliamentary Group of the Gaga de Left alternative on the initiative of Mrs Solla, who I do not believe accepts the amendment tabled by the People's Group. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. of the Alternative Galga de Left, at the initiative of Da Eva Solla Fernández and D. José Javier Ron Fernández, on the action to be taken in Galicia regarding the financing of treatment with Sofosbuvir for patients with hepatitis C. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. This proposal is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u211	We voted on the proposal by the Parliamentary Group of the Gaga de Left Alternative at the initiative of Mrs Díaz, to which no amendments have been tabled. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. by Alternative Galaga de Left, at the initiative of Da Yolanda Díaz Pérez and D. Antón Sánchez García, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in connection with the proposal to abolish 130 jobs in the Rural and Sea Council. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. This proposal is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u212	We voted in favour of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia on the initiative of Mr Losada. Looks like there's some kind of transaction, Mr. Losada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u213	We accept the amendment of the Joint Group, and point 1 of the amendment of the Galician Nationalist Block, as addition amendments.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u214	Thank you very much. So we voted for the Socialist Parliamentary Group's proposal with the amendment of the Joint Group and point 1 of the amendment of the Galician Nationalist Block. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of Mr Abel Fermín Losada Álvarez and two other Members, on the actions to be taken in relation to the so-called electric self-consumption support fees and the regulatory development of the net balance. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. This proposal is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u215	We are voting on the proposal from the People's Parliamentary Group in Galicia at the initiative of Mr Puy Fraga. Is there a transaction, Mr. Puy?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u216	Yes, President, there is a transaction on amendments to both the Galician Nationalist Block and the Socialist Group, so that it is drafted as follows: "The Galician Parliament urges the Galician Union to amend Article 7(3) of the consolidated text of the autonomous Community's legal provisions on taxes handed down by the General Government of the State, adopted by Legislative Decree 1/2011 of 28 July, in order to ensure that the application of the death reduction caused by the habitual housing can be applied when the cause ceases to reside effectively in it to move to another, one family, care centre, etc., for medical reasons or to seek their assistance and care. As long as this amendment does not take place, the Galicia Tax Agency will dictate the necessary instructions to implement the application of this reduction to taxpayers.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u217	Thank you very much, Mr. Puy. We then vote on this proposal as it has been read by Mr. Puy. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. Most popular of Galicia, on the action to be taken by the Government of Greece in relation to the application of the reduction by transmission of death caused by habitual housing, provided for in the tax on successions and prayers. When the vote was taken, the result was that this proposal was adopted unanimously, with 71 votes in favour.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u218	We then voted on the proposal from the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Bloc Galego at the initiative of Mrs Prado Cores, who said that she did not accept the amendment of the Socialist Group. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da María Montserrat Prado Cores and D. Francisco Jesus Jorquera Caselas, on the realization by the Government of the actions necessary to the Central Government for the transfer to Galicia of competences in the field of labour law. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 16; against, 40; abstentions, 16. The result of the vote is negative. This proposal is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u219	We voted in favour of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, which no amendments were tabled. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in the light of the reform of article 13.4 of the Law on Sexual and Reproductive Health and the voluntary interruption of pregnancy, requested by the People's Parliamentary Group in the Congress of Deputies. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. This proposal is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u220	Finally, we voted on the proposal by the Galician People's Parliamentary Group, at the initiative of Mrs Oubiña, which I believe made a compromise offer that I do not know whether it is accepted by the groups, in connection with the amendment of the Galician Nationalist Block and with regard to the amendment of the Left Galician Alternative. We therefore voted on the proposal as presented by the People's Group and Mrs Oubiña. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. Popular of Galicia, at the initiative of Da Berta Pérez Hernández and Da Rosa Oubigna Solla, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in connection with the harassment, sexual abuse and discrimination of women in the sport and the promotion of women's sport. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 39; votes against, 30; abstentions, 2. The voting is positive. This proposal is therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u221	We continue the development of the agenda with point 5 of interpellations. Da Yolanda Díaz Pérez, of the G.P. of the Alternative Galga de Left, on the industrial policy envisaged by the Galician Union
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u222	To formulate the inquiry you have the word Mrs. Yolanda Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u223	Counselor, I'm not at the best of the conditions to speak. I'll try to express myself as best I can. I wanted to read to him some statements that when Mr. Touriño ruled in the last year, Mr. Feijó did. I'm sure you'll share them with me now. Then Mr. Feijó said: "The Iron Plan, announced a year ago by Touriño, no longer exists. All the big projects of the Bipartite are not done. The Board concluded its mandate – it added – with a blank paper, with a plan presented a year ago that nothing has been done at all. Not only did he make these statements, but Mr. Feijóo committed himself to a series of substantial elements to diversify the region of Ferrolterra. The first of them pointed to and denounced the delays just in railway access to the outside port. He said and reported that the train to the outside port was completely paralyzed. He also said Mr. Feijóo that the port was strategic for Ferrol. I want to nuance you, Mr. Counselor – and I'm sure you agree with me – that this is not a serious country. It is not a serious country that affords the luxury – not to say anything else – of having two outer ports that are almost touched by the sea, which are 8 miles away, Counselor. Surely that's what you know is not serious. And, above all, we could say that it's not serious in the process of rationalizing a country. The ports are not from the localities, they are from our country, they are from Galicia, and we would need a single foreign port for our country. As you know, this is why it was justly located in Ferrol, for the kindness that had Ferrol's laugh, but for party interests it was necessary to make an infrastructure that you know, which is technically questioned – and so it works in the reports themselves that document the port of Coruña – that lacks the technical needs to be dispensed. Despite that, you now dominate the port of Coruña in front of the port of Ferrol. You were also talking about the dilapidated claim of the arrival of AVE to Ferrol. We didn't share this kind of infrastructure, but Mr. Feijóo promised then that he would ask all these kinds of questions. And Mr. Feijóo also committed himself to the candidacy of Ferrol to the heritage of humanity, just in that competition process, which I suppose he knows well, in which we are the only city in the world to compete for that candidacy for having hydraulic infrastructures as they have been located since the 18th century, is the only example in the world. So let's say it was our distinction with the other Greek projects as well as with the state as a whole. He promised Mr. Feijóo the recovery of the marine banks of our river in Ferrolterra, and they also promised the sanitation, of course, of it. I promised – you see how important! – the Strategic Plan – I said before summer – to reactivate Navantia's installations. Very relevant right now, which has just been published in the judgement of the National Court regarding that other mode of fraud of the social dialogue of the People's Party, Mr Feijóo promised, justly, to walk in the framework of the social dialogue. But it turns out, Mr. Counsellor, that since then six years have passed, and if you were saying that everything was not done, that the sheet of history was empty, today with greater roundness, we could extend our condolences to you as Industry Counsellor, pass the page and, unfortunately, say that Plan Ferrol is dead. Plan Ferrol is dead, Counsellor, and you can't let me lie, because you know we've got two calls in which nothing more and nothing less than 44 million euros, in a region like Ferrolterra's, which screams because he's hungry, they haven't been executed, there was no ability to even cover the files, present industrial projects and occupy these relevant accounts: the first, 44 million euros, and the second, last year, 33 million euros, in which he knows perfectly that only one project has been presented and only 2 million euros have been invested. This year we have an order that publishes nothing more and nothing less than EUR 45.7 million, Counsellor, and you know that, once again, it will be a real failure for your advice and, once again, they will not be able to be employed, therefore, without industrially diversifying our region, because we are so bad, Counselor, that even companies can't compete with those projects that you advance. Well, you know that the requirements for Plan Ferrol are more than questionable. You well know that so-called social agents have been asked to change some of the conditions; for example, the requirement of the necessary bank assets to be able to compete. Well, you know that, in the call that was finally made, that requirement remained as it was in the first order. And you well know, as much as Mr. Feijóo tells genuine falsehoods this morning, that credit doesn't flow, and at least in the district of Ferrolterra they won't be able to count on the necessary advances, as it has happened in previous calls, in order to present new industrial projects. But the most serious thing, Mr. Counsellor – and I'm sure he won't let me lie either – is that the eleven points on which was the so-called Iron Plan – I have to say that we didn't share the Iron Plan, we didn't believe it was the solution, and the time, unfortunately, gave us reason, the eleven points on which was based the industrial development plan for our region, all of them and each of them are calling, shouting or throwing some SOS of real death, because none went out. At the first point, we could talk about the naval sector. What am I going to tell you, Counselor!, what am I going to tell you!, if we have 4,500 workers and workers in the fired auxiliary industry, without coverage, without social protection and going hungry. What am I going to tell you!, if we have in our area the repair area, the only area that has paid – 3 million euros – and we continue without floating dams, and we continue, despite your promises here in the Chamber, without dry dams. What am I going to tell you about that strategic plan that Mr. Feijóo promised and that we don't have! We want, now that we can build ships, that have lifted the veto, the Industrial Plan for Navantia in Galicia. We want to know if we can build ships, and we want to know, again, whether Iberdrola's projects are compatible with building ships. We want to know if we're going to start developing offshore materials, we want to compete in R+D+i as well. We want to know, Counselor, what is the plan of the Government of Galicia to the county of Ferrolterra? I can tell you about other sectors that are covered by the Ferrol Plan, such as the tourism sector.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u224	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u225	We passed the page, Counsellor, because the only thing they did was to charge the existing municipal tourism company. Secondly, we could talk about biomass. Let's pass the page because it's nonexistent. We can talk about biodiesel. Would you like me to tell you what's going on with biodiesel in the county of Ferrolterra, Counselor? We would like – and that is what I hope will be approved favourably when we bring him here to discuss – that in the face of the failure of the Ferrol Plan – that is that you were dead and that we share – we will be told whether you will vote favourably for the audit that the Gaga de Left Alternative Group has just presented with respect to the millionaire funds of the Plan Ferrol that remained in an unexecuted drawer. And if you can, Counselor, tell us what you're going to do with the county of Ferrolterra. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u226	Thank you very much. Mr. Conde López has the floor of the Councillor for Economics and Industry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u227	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mrs. Díaz, your speech is the same as it was four months ago, a year ago, and five years ago. You constantly repeat 2009 phrases for 2015 realities, however, in these five years, Your Honor, things have changed. I don't know if you're aware of it, but this year ferrolan shipyards have contracts in their portfolio; Navantia is developing a diversification project in the offshore sector; Galicia is having positive growth rates, and the Government does not fool by talking about the crisis, when it spent five years, by the way, with the welcome of its party. [[Applause]] Your Honor, this year what happens in Galicia is that our economy has grown in 2014 at 0.4%, which, by the way, wasn't happening since 2010. And even more importantly, the forecast we have in 2015 is improving, with growth rates above 2%. In fact, speaking of data, large companies in Greece have already recorded a billing greater than before the crisis, and we trust that these good results will be shifted more firmly and wider to the whole business fabric and, of course, also to the Greek families. A result that's not a matter of macroeconomics, it's the clear proof of a trend change that is increasingly reflected in the Greeks and the Greeks. We're talking about memberships of Social Security grew by 0.5% in 2014 and are doing so by 1.3% in January 2015. Wages are recovering their purchasing power, 0.3% last year, and we are, along with Madrid, the only autonomous community where this is happening. We're reducing unemployment in more than 22,000 people in the last 12 months -- that is, 8% more and two points above Spain. And, above all, what we're most concerned about is that the indicators clearly point to that Galicia will again create net jobs in 2015. [[Applause]] Mrs. Díaz, Ferrolterra is also on this line. In February, there were 1,251 job seekers less than a year ago, 7.2%, and unemployment also decreased, especially in industry, by 17.6%, and in construction by 18.5%. It's not enough, but it's better. I'm telling you more, EPA indicates a drop of seven points in Ferrol, at the end of 2014, at the rate of unemployment compared to 2013. It's not enough, but it's better. I'm not talking about the future, I'm talking about facts, with the conviction that this year's data will be more favorable. And this is the merit, Your Honor, of companies, it's the merit of entrepreneurs, it's the merit of workers, but it's also the merit of the effort that we're making the different administrations. By giving him a specific data, while the districts of Ferrol, Eume and Ortegal account for 5% of the territory and population of Galicia, they captured 16% of all major investment projects in Igape from 2005, 2009 to 2014. Figures that speak of the Ferrol Plan, since 2009, Your Honor, this Ferrol Plan has mobilized investments worth 650 million euros through 1,300 business projects, and they are concrete projects and concrete realities. I'm telling you about Candido Hermida, who bets for the improvement and diversification of his activity, with lines of business like yacht equipment. I'm telling you, Your Honor, about Intaf, that he has new steel heat treatment lines put in place. And I'm also telling you about Delagro, by setting an example and a new project, which is developing a new production plant and packed with fertilizers. Your Honor, with all courtesy, it is difficult to understand how from your group permanently they want to question the talent and business initiative of Ferrol and Galicia. I'm sorry that this is your position, because this Government, of course, does not participate in that vision and this Government, of course, trusts the capacity of the Greeks and trusts the ability of its entrepreneurs. So, Your Honor, we have improved the business support framework, an important effort which has been translated into new lines of aid for the reactivation of the productive tissue, aids that continue to count, one more year, with a special intensity in Ferrol, Eume and Ortegal districts; as well as with a higher subsidy in the case of investment or circulating loans. [[Applause]] You tell me about Reindus's summons. Since 2006, it has been indeed 234 business projects that have been supported by this plan, with an economic commitment that in 2015 is indeed EUR 45 million. You know perfectly well that we're talking about funding aids; you know perfectly well that the advances or funds that have to contribute are 10%; you know perfectly well that this funding is at the disposal of business projects; and you know perfectly well – what happens is that you want to cancel it in your intervention – that this call includes improvements such as the removal of the requirement to wait for a process to start the project, as well as the introduction of a prior period of advice to submit applications. We will indeed protect the various projects so that they can have greater chances of obtaining this funding. And he also knows that the offer of interest is attractive, in the sense that he can get funding at 1.6%, when in the previous call the minimum was 3%. He also knows that we are pushing the sale of industrial soil, and Ferrolterra has the biggest discount that is being offered in Galicia, with a 50% discount at the price in the municipalities of Plan Ferrol, which will count as a new opportunity next April through the IGVS. He knows that Ferrol is the only area in Galicia that has a specific fund, the Xes-Impulsa Ferrol Fund, with 4 million euros that can be expanded to finance projects from XesGalicia, in the county of Ferrolterra. Finally, Mrs. Díaz, we are working logically, in a future for Galicia, in a future for Ferrolterra, and, of course, this Government is driving all initiatives in this direction. And you're pushing for business initiative, private initiative. Of course, we will continue to bet on an industrial model, an economic model, focused on competitiveness, focused on innovation, focused on internationalisation and, of course, focused on job creation. Your group, and you in particular, prefer to say not to everything. They say not to the gas plant, they say not to the bridge power station, they say not to the stream sanitation project, they say not to the railway connection itself to the outer port. You constantly want to move a model from an invisible country, but of course this is not the model that this Government has for Galicia and for Ferroterra. Our model clearly is more innovation, more competitiveness, more internationalisation and therefore more employment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u228	Thank you very much, Counselor. Replica roll. [[Mrs. Adam Villamarín asks for the floor.]] Yes, Mrs. Adam, why do you want the word?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u229	I want the word to make use of Article 150.2, which says textually: "After the intervention of interpellant and interpellant, one representative of each parliamentary group may make use of the word, except for that of the question, for ten minutes, to fix his position."
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u230	Well, indeed, you have the opportunity to make use of the word. But you also know that, by virtue of article 78.2, I have the ability to moderate the intervention. So you've got three minutes from the scene. [[Mr. Jorquera Caselas asks for the floor.]] Mr. Jorquera, you're talking to Mrs. Adam and, therefore, it's with her that I'm talking to.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u231	Madam President, can you repeat exactly how long you think you have to order this debate?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u232	Now, given the competing circumstances in which you are telling me, that you are aware that you are breaking an agreement between the various parliamentary groups, I tell you you have three minutes from the scene.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u233	No, I don't have three minutes from the scene, and I'll argue why.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u234	I'm not talking to you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u235	in Article 79...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u236	He's got three minutes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u237	...Mr. President...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u238	I'm sorry, Mrs. Adam, I'm not going to talk to you. You have the possibility to make use of Article 150, but if you please, you have three minutes from the scene.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u239	No, look, I want you to read Rule 79, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u240	Don't give a voice to Mrs. Adam's chair, please. It's just that, Mrs. Adam, I'm not going to argue with you. [[Mrs. Adam Villamarín speaks words that are not perceived.]] Three minutes from the stairwell. No, no, Mrs. Adam, if not, I understand you don't use the word and I'll call it in order. [[Mrs. Adam Villamarín speaks words that are not perceived.]] [[Mrs. Adam Villamarín speaks words that are not perceived.]] Mrs. Adam, you don't have the floor. If you... No, Mrs. Adam, I'm... Mrs. Adam, first of all... Mrs. Adam!, you have, first of all, a call to order, and now let me talk to you. [[Mrs. Adam Villamarín speaks words that are not perceived.]] [[Mrs. Adam Villamarín speaks words that are not perceived.]] [[Mrs. Adam Villamarín speaks words that are not perceived.]] [[Mrs. Adam Villamarín speaks words that are not perceived.]] You have a call to order because I told you you don't have the use of the word. Secondly, I have told you that you have the possibility to intervene in accordance with Article 150.2. And thirdly, I'm telling you, by virtue of article 78.2, you have three minutes from the scene. If you don't want to take the floor, we'll continue with the interpellation and Mrs. Díaz's intervention. [[Mr. Jorquera Caselas asks for the floor.]] Mr. Jorquera, I'm talking to Mrs. Adam. Will you make use of the word, Mrs. Adam? Mrs. Adam, will you make use of the word?Oh, my God! [[Murmurs.]] Will you make use of the word? [[Mrs. Adam Villamarín speaks words that are not perceived.]] [[Mrs. Adam Villamarín speaks words that are not perceived.]] Mrs. Adam! Mrs. Adam! [[Mrs. Adam Villamarín speaks words that are not perceived.]] Mrs. Adam, I haven't given you the floor yet, so if you follow that attitude... I'll give you three minutes from the scene to talk. [[Mrs. Adam Villamarín speaks words that are not perceived.]] [[Mrs. Adam Villamarín speaks words that are not perceived.]] Mrs. Adam!, I give you three minutes to stand in relation to this interpellation. If you want another question, you have no word. Will you make use of the word, yes or no? [[Mrs. Adam Villamarín speaks words that are not perceived.]] Mrs. Adam, you have a second call to order. If I call her in order for the third time, leave the chair and don't use the word. So, three minutes to stand over the interpellation. Start your time. Please give a voice to Mrs. Adán's chair so she can start her time at the interpellation. [[Pause.]] From the scene, Mrs. Adam, because I say so! [[Mrs. Adam Villamarín speaks words that are not perceived.]] [[Mrs. Adam Villamarín speaks words that are not perceived.]] I'm sorry, three-minute speeches are from the scene for an agreement from the Bureau and the Speaker's board. [[Protests.]] [[Protests.]] Please, Mrs. Adam, I don't want to... He's got two calls to order. [[Protests.]] You have two calls to order, please. [[Mrs. Adam Villamarín speaks words that are not perceived.]] From the scene. From the scene. [[Mrs. Adam Villamarín speaks words that are not perceived.]] [[Mrs. Adam Villamarín speaks words that are not perceived.]] I call her the third time and leave the hemicycle. Therefore, go, please, to your chair to make use of the word. He's got the seat on. [[Mrs. Adam Villamarín speaks words that are not perceived.]] [[Mrs. Adam Villamarín speaks words that are not perceived.]] Mrs. Adam, I'm going to have to call the order for the third time and I wouldn't want to. So make use of his word from the scene and don't put me in the situation of having to get her out of the Chamber. Please, make use of the word. [[Protests.]] [[Protests.]] [[Mr. Jorquera Caselas asks for the floor.]] Mr. Jorquera, what do you want the word for?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u241	Madam President, by Rule 77, which says that in any state of the debate a Member may request compliance with the Rules of Procedure, and for this purpose he must cite the article or articles of those who claim to apply. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u242	What articles...?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u243	I call for the application of Article 150.2 on interpellations, and therefore for an interpretation in accordance with the Rules of Rule 78.2 to which you appeal, since it says the 78.2 textually:...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u244	That's it, I get it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u245	..."within the framework laid down in this Regulation, the President shall have the power to order the debate and the votes". Within the established framework. But the regulation provides that the position can be fixed for ten minutes in the petitions.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u246	You finished your intervention now, Mr. Jorquera, and I will answer you, because you only read the first part of the article. Miss Peace, you don't have the floor. Look, Mr. Jorquera, Article 78.2 says all that you say, but it adds: "incrementally increasing or decreasing the time of interventions, taking into account for this the importance of a matter and the competing circumstances." Therefore, competing circumstances... have already finished point two of the article. [[Murmurs.]] [[Protests.]] Mrs. Adam, will you use your intervention for three minutes again? Then, please, go to your seat. [[Assentment.]] [[Mrs. Adam Villamarín speaks words that are not perceived.]] Mrs. Adam! Mrs. Adam, I'm gonna have to call her in order. [[Mrs. Adam Villamarín speaks words that are not perceived.]] You're putting me in a complicated situation. Go to your precinct if you want to make use of the interpellation. [[Protests.]] Mrs. Adam, the last time I tell you, if not, leave the hemicycle. Do the favor. I ask you, for the sake of the agreement, to make use of the scan. [[Murmurs.]] [[Protests.]] Mrs. Adam, you have a third call to order. Please leave the hemicycle. Leave or hemicycle, Mrs. Adam! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Protests.]] Mrs Díaz, you have the floor to continue the speech. Mrs. Pontón, you have a second call to order and you know what the third one means. [[Mrs. Pontón Mondelo speaks words that are not perceived.]] [[Protests.]] All right. [[Protests.]] [[Protests.]] Mrs. Pontón!, second call to order. [[Protests.]] Mrs. Díaz, you have the floor. [[Protests.]] My word is the Rules of Procedure of this House, Mrs Peace. Mrs. Díaz, you have the floor. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I just want to say one thing. The questions of moderation in the debates that the Presidency is making are not the subject of debate. Therefore, Mrs. Díaz, you have the floor to continue the inquiry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u247	I'm going back to the county of Ferrolterra. Counselor, we asked him two questions that he knows perfectly well. The first is the assessment of industrial diversification and the creation of stable employment and rights linked to the Iron Plan. Secondly, the policies you're developing are going to be rectified by plan, and they're also willing to jump...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u248	Please be quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u249	It's just that I've got... really, really, I can't. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u250	Please be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u251	He has the two questions we have asked him in writing. But I wanted to give you the reason for something, Counselor. It's true they've changed things, of course they've moved, to worse, unfortunately!, to the district of Ferrolterra. Counselor, I live there, I have a daughter there and I want to keep living there. You know what that is? Do you know what that is, Counselor? Do you know we've reached 70,000 inhabitants in the city of Ferrol, Counselor? We had 100,000, Counselor. The result of the policies for the deindustrialization and fruit of the malaise policies in the naval, Counsellor, we have 70,000 inhabitants. With this I say absolutely everything, let's move to worse! But, look, for once, I'm going to take the borrowed voice – which I don't have today – of the entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs of the district of Ferrolterra, which is that they are all without projects and without companies. You set the example of Candida Hermida, Counsellor. Do you think it's serious to set an example of Candido Hermida's change? Cándido Hermida fortunately has a job because he works for the Index Group, Counsellor. Don't cheat, don't cheat, don't cheat with the data. Surely you, as you spoke in general terms and spoke little about Plan Ferrol... You won't lie about this, Counselor. Look, if you do the favor, the INE: Galicia, -4.9%, industrial production, Counselor; I'm not inventing myself. And I'm also going to give the People's Party and Mr. Feijóo the reason. It's true, they made the ship terribly wrong and that's why we're decreasing and that's why the Greek economy is feeling. Because, if there's a modern industry in economic terms, it's the naval, Counselor, it's the naval. Can you assess what happened with the EUR 33 million and the EUR 44 million of the latest naval summons, Counsellor? Do you think it's normal they're not running? Do you realize how bad we're in the neighborhood socially, and that companies don't even have the capacity to introduce themselves to the projects, Counselor? I know you didn't listen to me. Even though I don't have a voice, I've already told him about the 10% discount. By the way, the railroad employers asked him to take them off, Counselor. Anyway, you come – as Mr. Losada says – face-to-face with the written answer, and it doesn't matter, because you've answered what I've already said: 10% avalais, interest at 4.3 percent. Counselor, we don't even have companies to do this. Counselor, I was talking to you about 2009 because a public official has to be consistent with his promises. They promised us an industrial plan for Ferrolterra and we don't have it. It's a failed game of Plan Ferrol. Take off the Ferrol Plan and do something serious with our neighborhood, unless they want to destroy us all and us all; we will become the slag of our country. Counselor, I'm serious. We're not the ones who don't, we're willing to work for that county, but not kill it or put people's lives at risk. You guys have a problem, as Professor Monedero says, they have a problem, and they're ruling against people. And the problem they have now is how to continue to do so that, ruling against people, they keep their vows. And the times have come, and people are going to throw them away -- with "b" -- from this country. Counselor, answer the questions we ask you and please don't read what you bring in writing. We know what Plan Ferrol is. Explain what happened in biomass, what happened in biodiesel, what happens in the naval sector. Are we going to have an industrial plan, yes or no? Are we going to have floating dike, yes or no? Are we going to have a workload, yes or no? Do you know how many workers are busy, primarily in the auxiliary industry, Counsellor, in the fleet? Do you know? Don't take our hair, please. Take this seriously.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u252	Thank you very much, Mrs. Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u253	I live there, I have a daughter there, and I'll keep living there. You see, you don't.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u254	You have the floor, to close the debate, the economic and industrial advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u255	Thank you very much, Madam President. With all the cordiality, Mrs. Díaz, after more than two years of hearing that her Galician model is a Galician without Meirama and The Bridges, it is a Galician without Reganosa, it is a Galician without mining activity, it is a Galician without aerodrome of Rozas, it is a Galician sea windless Galician for Navantia, it is a Galician without investments like those of Pemex, a Galician without a future, ultimately, understand that this government does not agree with that planment. [[Applause]] I, the truth is, I don't understand why his group constantly invokes interventionism through a German industrial institute, which is precisely the content of his question. That, of course, is not the model of this government. Of course, the model of this government is to promote business, private activity, and not regular or through models like other Latin American countries to which you are referring or not a model...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u256	Mrs. Díaz, Mrs. Díaz!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u257	..., Mrs. Díaz, a economy regulated through the DOG and through the Official State Bulletin. We understand that our model is an assumed model, it's a responsible model, it's a model focused on competitiveness, innovation and internationalization. And, of course, we will never stop betting and investing any business initiative in that direction. That's why I remind you, Your Honor, that this government has mobilized more than 400 million euros in innovation projects. I remind you that this government will spend more than 50 million euros on internationalization over the next two years. I remind you that we are working on the industrial competitiveness agenda "Galicia Industry 4.0", with which we want to wager for reinvention, modernization, our industry; therefore, for fixing industrial fabric in Galicia. And we're talking about Ferrol, and you're talking about Plan Ferrol. And you know perfectly well what was the inheritance that, for example, in the naval left the two-party government that you supported with all intensity. Contracts, zero; and thanks also to a bad management by the European Commission, a tax file read that we had to manage. Today, the reality of Plan Ferrol is a Plan Ferrol with content, it's a Plan Ferrol with strategic projects that we're working on. Projects, Your Honor, such as the expansion of Somozas' polygons, Penapurreira, The Trabe, Colo's Vilar and Narón. We are talking, Your Honor, about the railway concession of the external port of Ferrol. We are talking about the project – which never mentioned, by the way, of Ferrol Container Terminal, with an investment already made and already made of 18 million euros that will bring new opportunities through maritime traffic in Ferrol. We are talking, Your Honor, within this Ferrol Plan, of this diversification plan, of the future of the GNL hub, of what you do not, Your Honor, want to talk, with an infrastructure that is called a reference of the northwest peninsula in the distribution of this fuel, and which reinforces the new opportunities that the logistics sector and the naval lord in Ferrolterra has, through the wagering of Reganosa, the natural gas bet, the bet of the outer port and the bet of the Galician Junta. I understand, Your Honor, that you don't want to talk about either the container terminal or the LNG hub either. But let's also talk about the naval, Your Honor, because the contracts that Navantia had in 2009 were zero. That was the legacy they left us. Today reality and the facts are that Navantia is developing constructive projects for over 600 million euros. We're building a fleet of Pemex, Your Honor; not Andalusia. It's building the Monforte de Lemos. The maritime action vessel is being constructed. Contracts, Your Honor, for more than 600 million euros that are a reality in Navantia. And you know, Your Honor, that yesterday even added a pre-agreement to the construction of three smooth oil tankers with the choice of the other three. [[Applause]] Finally, Your Honor, we could also talk about the new plan of action for the Galician CIS, where we are going to bet on innovation. Finally, Your Honor, we have an economic fabric that makes the sentence of Victor Hugo valid, when he wrote that the future has many names and that for the brave is an opportunity. Your Honor, Galicia is moving forward. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u258	Thank you very much, Counselor. Mr Pablo García García and two other members of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the proposals submitted by the Government of Galicia to the Central Government for their inclusion in the future decree referred to the so-called'milk package'
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u259	You have the floor, to make your appeal, Mr. García of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u260	Thank you, President. Good morning, Counselor. Once again we bring to this House the problem, the eternal problem of the dairy sector. We are not going to continue to focus on what we have already said here many times, both you and I – almost the only thing we agree on, is almost the only thing we agree on – about the importance of this sector – so we are not going to be repetitive – and what it means for the state, what it means for our economy and what it means for our rural world, the dairy sector. The truth is that – I repeat – is almost the only thing we agree on. But there is a fundamental difference, and that, in any case, is the least: that you have to govern and, therefore, in addition to saying and highlighting, as you often do, the importance of this sector, in addition to – as you like to say – to accompany this sector, you have the responsibility to work accordingly, or should have it. And, therefore, if this sector is important, it should also be important for you not to do your daily political business. And there, Counselor, once again we have to tell you to suspend. And don't suspend with a four and a half scratched, it's not the one that suspends with a four and a half scratched. You've been suspending sharply and you've been suspending sharply since you've been counseling. And lately he's doing something worse: that, as a minor, he doesn't even show up. As far as the facts are concerned, since you are an advisor, in addition to denying the help of improvement plans, in addition to reducing the aid in mountain areas, in addition to reducing the aid of indigenous races, in addition to reducing the ESC, you have been touched by the timetable to address perhaps the most important problem or situation in this sector in recent years, which is the disappearance of the quota system. It doesn't disappear or change from system every year, we actually take this system over twenty-five years, and therefore it's a fact, sufficiently transcendental and not given every day. To that end, there were also a number of measures which the European Union had given for the Member States to develop. And you passed the decree in 2012 to develop that series of measures, in 2012. The decree that it was, was misfortune, as we were told, totally inoperative and that it didn't work. There has never been this decree for practical purposes, and it has not helped anything to solve the situation. It didn't apply to what was conceived or should be conceived, to adapt to a new system of price negotiation and suppression of the previous quota system. In May 2014, Mr. Feijóo left Madrid very quickly – I suppose – because there is a change of minister. Takes possession of new Minister Tejerina, and I read or hold: "Tejerina announces to Feijóo the amendment of the decree for the benefit of the producer sector". I think it was May 23, about. This announcement, which is made on 23 May, by Mr. Feijóo, that the decree was to be amended for the benefit of the sector, was adopted in February 2015. It's not wrong to rule the decree coup. The day we make a law, I don't know how long we'll be. To take out a decree, which in theory is an urgent measure, so the way of the decree is used, to amend a decree, it took us from May 2014 to April 2015. And in any case, being serious, it's serious, not because it's a matter of political diligence. It's a question that this decree should apply to the transit we have to face within 15 days. And yet the decree is not operational as such, nor will it be, since the decree itself is impossible to fulfill it since we would have had to negotiate with two months in advance the contracts that will enter now, which is materially impossible. And on April 1st we will violate the decree, as it is logical, because we have not brought it out before. But, Counsellor, why has the decree been amended? What are the news of this decree that you agree with? Are you satisfied like this and how did this decree stand? I mean, do you like it or don't you like it? Do you think that with these amendments, you agree or respond to what Mr. Feijóo and Mrs. Tejerina said they were modifications to the producer sector? Do you agree with that statement once the decree is made? Are you satisfied as you were? Because you haven't said anything yet. He never said it before, never said what you wanted. He rejected all political initiatives in this Parliament in order to have a Galician position, and rejected an agreement with the sector to defend Galician political position in changing this sector. The decree comes out and even today you have said nothing, absolutely nothing. What do you think? He didn't say it during the process. You're not going to say anything now that it's published? Once again, if you don't suspend, don't you introduce yourself? What's the reason? Central Government management in the development of the milk package, as Rajoy would say, was pathetic. And the management of the Galician Union, as a community to which this problem really affects, which should truly be interested in changing that decree – and you are the most responsible – was of total incomparency. Counselor, we don't paint anything. Counselor, you don't look like anything. I don't speak at personal level on a personal, political or even aesthetic subject. I speak because, for the Galician Union, the sector represents enough for us to paint a lot. And the fact is we're not painting anything, Galicia hasn't painted anything in this whole process. Supertax theme. In the last year of quota, in the last year of the system, yesterday at last the ministry rectified the report on which it was based for you to devote these three months to telling the sector that you had to lower production, and lower your report that you had to forecast... a little detail, it was only three months ago, and you said it and you took it out here, 35 million to 2 million euros, 8 million kilos, one day of milk... that's the problem we have. And that's why you said what you said for these two months, you and your entire office. It ensured everywhere the real threat that existed, it made people decrease production, it made people sacrifice cows, it made people rent quota. But it's true that you have a problem solved, as I've already told you here. You're delighted to have known each other and that there's no fine, yes. You – I think to the shame of everyone – are delighted, and that, thanks to you, saying these things around, well, because the greedy people produced less and, therefore, it is true that now you don't have the problem of supertax, you don't have to pay fines. But it shouldn't be that to be proud. Not understanding how Galicia – we return to the one that doesn't paint anything – could be doing and you could be the point of launching a report with that tremendous breakthrough. And lastly, we also know in recent days the report of the National Commission on Markets and Competition, which has just imposed a fine of €88.2 million on many industries – 11 in particular – by practices of distribution of livestock and price agreements, of which many operate in Galicia. I mean, they agreed on the price to pay everyone less to the riskless payouts of losing customers. Have you read the file? I understand you do. There's no waste. I even chained him. And as you can tell, when I was sent, I said, "Let's see if somebody's done a summary. But I chained it up because it's my book last week. There's a lot of serious business stuff going on here. Is this the industry you say there's no deal because of the gain? Is this the way to operate the industry? Here it is clearly said of "I share with this one, I leave you to this one, you don't take this one; we stay in that price was so, we stay in that no more pay. How do you get out of paying for a little more? Don't worry, it was a sneaker but I'm paying you less, because it's true that at the meeting we said it was..." It's all picked up here. I left the book I was reading and chained it, because it's really to the shame of industry, which more than industry looks like a mafia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u261	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u262	And to your shame, because you've done nothing about it. And you, in view of this, which is what they say is happening to the livestock and which is not happening now very differently, we don't know what it does. It's more, not even there's an assessment of your respect for this, Counselor. You, once again, disappear. You, once again, are gone. And are these – I repeat – the ones you defend? These are the ones who were pressured not to change the decree, these. These are the ones who went to the minister so that the decree would not be changed. These are the ones you defend. These practices are what you defend. And then you tell me about free market. What free market is he talking about? Of what, despite the rise of 12% of butter and 18% this January of milk powder, are they still saying that milk needs to be lowered in this country? If international markets are rising and the price is rising, why should it be lowered here? For this reason, by these practices. And these are the ones you're protecting. These are the ones you're defending, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u263	Thank you very much, Mr. García. Thank you very much. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u264	Counsellor, ultimately, do you think...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u265	Your time is up, Mr. Garcia. [[Mr. García García pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Mr. Garcia, thank you very much. [[Applause]] The councilor of the Middle Rural and Sea, Mrs. Rosa Quintana, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u266	Madam President, thank you very much. Good morning, gentlemen. Mr. Garcia, the first thing I wanted to make clear is that I must, in the light of the data I will give after, deny the largest and point out that there is no huge majority of uncontracted holdings or the margins of legality in the delivery of milk. I say this because it seems, because of the exposition of motives that you did in the initiative – and it no longer surprises us that then it doesn't match what you're exposed to here – that you prejudge the situation without knowing the data. And it even contradicts itself in its own explanation. So much so that it is possible to say that farms sell milk without getting to cover operating costs, and in the next paragraph point out that the activity may not be possible to sustain the situation, when we are sure that the sale to inviolable faine losses since minute one. Since then, affirming one thing and its opposite is certainly surprising. But this explanation even blurs the lack of adequacy to reality, I don't know whether due to lack of time or lack of initiative, because it says that the amendment of the decree of the milk package has not yet been published, although today it has already acknowledged here that it has indeed been published on 28 February. I think he might have had time to change it. But well, I'm going to try to answer all the questions you asked in your inquiry. As for the first one, on how many contracts there are currently signed in Galicia between producers and industries and how long they have, according to information provided by Inlac, which is the manager of the implementation of the management of milk contracts on 30 November 2014, which is the most recent date we have, existed in Galicia 8,282 contracts signed with producers. Given that the number of deliveries made in November 2014 was 9,643, the implementation of the contract reached 85,9 % of the milk deliveries. But I want to point out that the fact that they're not recorded in the Gecole doesn't mean that there are no contracts, because then we've already been doing the checks and we can ensure that by the end of 2014 100 percent of the milk collection was made under a contract. As for the average duration of the contracts, it was 5.18 months, indicating that it was 8.8 months in the assumptions that the recipient is a cooperative. And it should be noted that 25% of contracts have a duration of 12 months or more. As for the question of which is the referenced index that collects these contracts, according to the information provided again by Inlac, and with date of November 30 2014, the price of 82% of the contracts of the Greek products is fixed, and 18% is variable. In this sense, the Galician Union has long defended the indexation of milk prices in contracts to market evolution indicators. The result of this interest is the creation and making available to the dairy sector of the computer tool called "Xacobea". Xacobea has obvious advantages, such as the possibility of reducing the effects of high volatility in the price of milk, the evolution of time at real price with the milk market taking into account the evolution of production costs. Ultimately, Xacobea allows contracts to be longer and can bring much more stability to the sector by making, with it and with the potential that dairy producers' organizations have to be able to negotiate together all the mandatory elements of the contract with the first buyers, we can have the right tools to defend the interests of the owners. As for the assessment made by the Government of the current price situation of milk received by producers in Galicia, we believe that in order to address this issue we must flee from aprioristic assumptions and take the statistics of prices and certain issues that can give a trend line of how this price can evolve. We can't evaluate as positive the price reached in January, which is the last of what we have, if we compare it to a year ago. But we must bear in mind that, if we discard the price of an industry that welcomes more than 1,300 owners of this community, this would certainly be higher in several tenths. In this sense, and since this company is paying milk for two cents cheaper than average, we are analyzing the issues that can influence this low, which we believe to be unjustified, in order to take the corresponding measures. Returning to the price itself, we have to point out that this past month the price in Galicia has dropped by 13% less than in Spain. That's a generalized trend for the whole of Europe in the case of liquid milk. But we also have positive data, as you mentioned, because we can see how the international trend in prices recognized by FAO says that in February the price of dairy products has risen by 4.6%, which is the first increase since February 2014, and there is already a rise in prices in commodities in recent years. But this data must also be analysed in the light of the net yield that is obtained, as well as the cost of production costs has been lowering since September 2012, accumulating 17% of discharge, which, combined with a rise in milk prices since that same month of 7.35%, gives us that performance something has improved over that moment. Besides, if we also see the price of the quota tranches, we see how larger farms can get around 4 cents more per litre of milk than those of smaller size, or, what's the same, almost 14% more, reinforcing the the thesis of which to negotiate together can be the decisive tool that must take advantage of dairy producers' organizations. You ask me repeatedly what were the proposals that the Council of Galicia gave to the Government of the State to collect in the royal decree that would amend the real decree of the year 2012. I've explained it many times before, and I don't know how to tell him, because he doesn't seem to listen to me. Since the actions of dairy producer organisations were not sufficient to improve the negotiating position of the producer sector, this board, in collaboration with the Magram, took the initiative to amend the actual decree of the year 2012 with two important issues between the objectives: that contracts have a real duration of at least one year and the incorporation of the possibility of using a mediation system in those who were not to obtain an agreement in the negotiation of terms of contract. We knew both issues were complicated, but the central government still answered. Contracts have a real duration of one year, except for the limitation imposed by a Community regulation which allows the producer the freedom to waive that contract. But the difference is that the producer has to communicate it to the Autonomous Community by arguing why he renounces that contract. And I can assure you that we will take the corresponding means to make this effective and effective. And as for the figure of the mediator, it is contemplated in the royal decree, adjusting to the legality of the law that was made, that mediation cannot, under any concept, be more than voluntary, as I explained to you in the previous interpellation that you made me. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u267	Thank you very much, Mrs. Quintana. Mr. García's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u268	Counsellor, the parliamentary process is so. Logically, when an initiative is registered, it takes some time to register until debate. And it's logical, from my point of view, that the news that's since the initiative was registered until... and it shouldn't cost you so much who makes your paper. I mean, if you come here to talk about milk, if you've come here to talk about milk, if you put on the initiative, if three important things have happened since you registered that initiative until today, which you write about it. [[Murmurs.]] I am convinced, and I have told some counselor and some fellow of mine, that sometimes, if any Member comes here and takes a shot on his head, the counselor continues to read the role that the advisor has prepared him, without changing himself the least.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u269	Mr. Garcia... I'll take it back, I'll take it back. Because I find it unheard of that you say to me: Are you talking to me about something... Man, I think it has everything to do with what you're talking about the sector. It has to do with contracts, it has to do with the decree and it has to do with the fine. Or has it got nothing to do with it? I think it's quite a relationable subject and I'm not leaving the subject. Counsellor, contracts have been breached. Here's a contract signed on January 25th about the milk delivered in January and that lasted a month. If this is not to violate the decree, you tell me what it is. He's going to fail, but not for bad. If the decree came into force the other day and had to have offered the contract for a year two months ago, it could not be offered, because the decree was not approved. So on April 1st, which is when we're out of contract, we'll have another new situation of non-compliance. And that's right, Counselor, it hasn't been fulfilled. Therefore, Counselor, Potentiality, which has not developed the potentials of OPs and OPLs. But what potential? But you read this!: "In the price issue it is being an atypical year, because when we had all agreed, negotiated, the fall of 2 pesetas, by losing livestock" – one who was dismissed "he was informed of the non-down of prices. The G4, which meets... as usual the three companies" – I will skip or name, not with respect to them, but with respect to myself "they joined the car from February with the excuse that if the others were down they also had to go down". Do I keep reading to you? I mean, you know this. And the culprit that there's no price negotiation is because of the others, isn't it? No, you don't understand anything, Counselor. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And that I don't understand anything is not serious, it's the one that misses. That I didn't understand anything would be irrelevant. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Now that you don't understand anything is truly serious, Counselor. That's really serious, no doubt, because I didn't understand it would be the least of the problems for this country. [[Applause]] That's more, if Mr. Feijó had asked me who's a counselor, I'd say, put this one on. Because for me, delighted. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] But that's not the problem, the problem is for the sector, Counsellor, that's the problem. And this isn't that hard to understand. It's not a problem of understanding, it's a problem of wanting to do things or not, it's a problem of being in things or not. And to all of you, and to you, which is the serious one, because it's the understanding in the matter and it's the one that should have responsibility, this sector is importing a chicken during this whole process. Yes, Mrs. Pacín, you've come to mind a chicken in this whole process. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And that's the really serious thing. Counsellor, you speak of mediation, mediation and duration of contracts. But if that was already in the previous decree, Counselor! Mediation between the two sides, if the two sides agree to accommodate themselves, was already in the previous decree, Counselor, already in the previous decree. The duration of a year except exceptions was already in the previous decree, Counsellor. So, Counselor, I asked him the question of why we changed the decree, and we've been talking about the amendment of the decree for eight months, and when we change the decree we haven't changed the decree for eight months. That's the point, Counselor. What did you say during those months of what you wanted to change, because you never said that? Counsellor, that's the problem. And finally, to finish. You, once you have the decree already published, once you know this – I repeat, which seems extremely serious, very serious, what you count here, that still above your CEO arrives the other day at the commission saying that the fault of no negotiation was from the OPL, after recognizing this...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u270	It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u271	...after you know how these pirates spend it, because it's soft, you say it's the fault of the thugs who can't negotiate. Do you think, do you still think, that it's the fault of the gentlemen who can't negotiate, Counselor? Is it their fault? Do you keep thinking? If you keep thinking about that, then it's much more serious than you understand nothing, it's much more serious than you know nothing. It's a lot worse because what we're trying to do is make fools.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u272	Thank you very much, Mr. García. Thank you very much, Mr. García.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u273	And I already tell you that I...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u274	Thank you very much, Mr. García. [[Mr. García García pronounces words that are not perceived.]] You don't have the word anymore, Mr. Garcia. [[Applause]] Replica from the Middle Rural and Sea Councillor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u275	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Garcia, I already know that I am for you the worst counselor there is. So if you try to say it every day, and to me your opinion, as you will understand, I don't really care. I worry that many times if I try – for some interest I suppose political, that you will be very comfortable sitting here in Parliament – to use the sector. I'm worried about that. And I have to tell you that, from minute one, both the Government of the State and the Government of Mr. Feijóo since 2009 we have only one objective, which is to try to defend the strategic sectors for Galicia. And I'm very sorry, because we're doing it with the legal tools needed to have a really strong sector. [[Applause]] You would have to explain many times where you were when you were a senator and what you did for us to arrive the year we arrived without having a milk package and without the right tools for the sector to go out. And don't come here to tell me what this new decree of the milk package offers, because you know very well, like me, that administrations cannot afford prices. You're trying to say that we made a price, and I'm telling you that the producer organization...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u276	Mr. Díaz!..., Mr. Garcia!, I'm sorry...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u277	...lacts are the only ones who have the ability to sit down and negotiate prices. And what I'm telling you is that I don't need to read the sentence, that I already read it, because I look... [[Pause.]] I haven't chained it up, because I suppose, just as you've bound that judgment, you'll have this report from the Committee on Competition, which sent it to the Competition Court in 2013. All aspects of this report are taken up in the judgment. This was the report drawn up by the Galician Council once it analysed everything that happened with the milk sector and was drawn up by point in that judgment. I suppose he will; if not, I'll leave it to the president for him to come. [[Applause]] I also have to tell you that during the two-party government the competition court has also made a report, the court of Greece in defence of competition has made a report on the milk problem. I have to tell you that absolutely all the proposals that appeared in the conclusions that the Autonomic Administration had to make have been made to us since we arrived, all the proposals. The only thing that today is not yet approved, but which is on its way to stamp, is what they referred to the good practice agreement. And this is doing, the code of good practice, in accordance with all chain links. Because you only tell me about the real decree that was made in Madrid, and I have to tell you that in very little time, in practically just three years of government, if you approved the Food Chain Act, the Royal Decree of 2012 of the milk package and if you have already amended that real decree to give more strength to the producers, in just three years. What have you guys done before? Man, please! The truth is to use the sector. [[Applause]] They're talking about prices. They look at the prices, they really look at the farmer and what it costs him to produce, and at what price he has to sell. And that has to be their negotiation. We've studied it and analyzed it, and at the meetings with the sector we've talked about it. And I can tell you that Galicia's proposals to amend the real decree were made in agreement with the sector, with the three agricultural organizations. Yes, Mr. Garcia. The truth is, that Galicia does not paint anything about you here, but I ask you to read the minutes that rise in the Cantabrian parliament, where your friends of the Socialist Cantabria Party say absolutely the opposite, which is Galicia the only one that is moving to defend the dairy sector. And as for the subject of supertax forecasting, I ask you to reflect on the words he says. Forecast, forecast! According to the production data that the owners were providing, the Ministry has an obligation, as we have done for all autonomous communities, to remind the sector that this year there was a surcharge and that they therefore changed their productions because they could have to pay a fine. And I don't want to take the sector where you took it too, to have to pay fines for doing negotiations that couldn't be done, or to let them go through production and have to pay those fines. Actually, the sector needs help, not that we put stones on its way, it helps, and that's what they have on the board of Galicia. And on that line I'll keep working. I don't stand for industry, no.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u278	Thank you very much, Counselor. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u279	I defend the producer sector, industry and all chain links, because they are the ones that give value to this sector. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u280	Thank you very much. We suspended the session until tonight at 6:30 p.m., 4:30 p.m.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u281	Good afternoon, ladies. Agenda Change
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u282	Before I begin, I inform your lords of two changes in the agenda: firstly, that question 7.1, registration number 34292, will be dealt with lastly, is the question of the Alternative Left Glaga, of Mr Fajardo, and that question 7.8 of the Socialist Group, registration number 34223, will be filed after the inquiry that will take place below. So we started with the development of the agenda. Mr Da María Carmen Gallego Calvar and three other Members of the G.P. of the Galician Socialists, on staff policy in the public management of disability
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u283	You have the floor to appeal to Mrs Gallego Calvar.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u284	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Labour Counsellor. First of all, I would like to welcome you to the debate of this appeal to two representatives of the Business Committee of the Labour and Welfare Council, who are here with us today to hear what your advisor has to answer, because this inquiry is made, Madam Labour Adviser, so that you realize what up to now he has not been able to account for the people representing the workers and workers of the Labour and Welfare Council in the public centers that are of your competence. As usual, the People's Party, also in this Labour Council, as well as in social policies, takes advantage of this economic crisis to follow its roadmap – the roadmap of health, the roadmap of education... – which is to damage public services, personal cuts, cutting material resources, higher payrolls for users and finally privatization. You, Counselor, since the government has abolished 800 jobs occupied by accumulation of tasks and have amortized or – by other words – has permanently removed 700 other jobs. You do an inhuman policy; instead of prioritizing people and their quality care, you prioritize the economic cost. He has gross working conditions for the Council staff, which are a serious physical and psychological deterioration of the staff of the centres. We speak, counsellor, of care centres for persons with disabilities, both for residential and day-care facilities; of residences of elderly people with daily and residential care, also for self-employed persons and dependents; of centres of minors, with residential care and day-care; of centres that have to function the 300 and five days of the year and with full attention, and of course, public centers, advisor. Full attention means not only to wash and feed those who can't do it by their hand, or to seek care and nourishment for those who are autonomous. Full attention, counselor, is also health care, rest, leisure, motivation, caring for people dignifiedly, caring especially for older people in their dignified final course of life. Templates are not adjusted to the reality of centers or needs, or to the special characteristics of users. The staff of this facility are obliged to work two weekends yes and one not consecutively, eight out of every nine working days, three consecutive nights. The casualties are covered by forcing people who continue to work to supply the person who's off, and they do the same with vacations. Counsellor, you generate an unbearable burden of work, which results in a deterioration in the health of workers and workers, and in a lower quality of care for the people who use these centres. Workers and workers at the Labour and Welfare Council and these centers have musculo-skeletal problems, physical and mental exhaustion, continued stress and depression. In fact, it is very important to increase casualties by accidents and for all these issues in recent years. There are no support staff in children's schools until three years old, before there were nursing assistants and nursing staff. Lack of personnel, lack of material means, and there's a more obvious deterioration of public facilities. Counselor, lack of food, rations are smaller, bed linen, gloves, leathers, soapy sponges, subjection belts, moisturizing creams. The cranes are almost all manuals, and the beds, or they're not suitable, or the joints have to be moved with handcuffs or wings, with which this is a load for the workers and workers. And that's why long-term work casualties are increased by work accidents. The maintenance and replacement of camillas, tensiometers, mucosities vacuum cleaners, shower chairs, hieriac bathtubs fail. There are gym mattresses, advisors, floorings or dressing-rooms used so people can make their napkin. And the Socialist Group doesn't say it, you can prove, Counselor, there are photographs. Photographs like this one from public centers at the Work Council where you see dressings so that older people can take their sixth. Photographs with impossible access for people who have some mobility difficulty. Photographs, advisor, where mattresses are seen so that older people can take their nap here after eating to rest. This is the situation of the centres, Counsellor. Most of the centers have become the characteristics of the people who reside in them right now in long-stay hospitals, and are not prepared to meet the peculiarities of these kinds of people. Residents there have pluripathologies, and there are no action protocols for the management of aggressive behaviors, no management of infectious-communicable pathologies, no updating courses for staff, there are not enough and on occasion no portable vacuum cleaners, saturimeters, oxygen intakes with oxygen pathways and nebulization, emergency rooms near the dining areas to adequately address food-related complications, such as bronch-aspiration and wiring. All this, you know what she's got, Counselor? To which the people who use these centers suffer, and suffer dew, scarves, ulcers. It's a cognitive deterioration of older people so big that if they rush to death, counselor, with their policies.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u285	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u286	Materials are from the 1970s, from the 1990s. The centers, both for their deterioration and for their lack of investment, are no longer adapted to the rules of the autonomous community itself. In fact, center inspection technicians don't even even go through them because they'd have to take action and the government doesn't want to. There are no investments to repair facades, no waterproofing roofs, no changing windows, no modernizing heating systems, no decentrating access to make them – it makes redundancy – more accessible. With which we have buildings where the cold and the heat are caught in the windows, with humidity, sometimes – often without hot water – to be able to cure users, with high heating costs due to insufficient isolation, and people users and workers suffering from these conditions with flu, respiratory insufficiency, etc. All this that tells you, counselor, you don't know it, or you shouldn't be unaware of it, because all this that I say here today told you in writing the Work and Wellness Business Committee, center the needs of each of them, and you didn't do it. You went out saying it was a point problem of two or three centers and one province, but the business committees of the Labour Council said this is what happens in the four provinces, Counsellor. And in the face of his desire, in the face of his abandonment and the repeated lies he tells us every time he comes here, I believe the works councils, because they provide data. Because, look, there's court judgements and there's data. On 9 October 2012, the Supreme Court of Justice in Galicia gave them the reason to the union centres, to all those who filed an appeal on the weekly right to rest of workers, who violates the Council in public centers. On 17 March 2014, the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia declared the Council of Labour cartel null and illegal by 2013. On February 24, 2015 – a judgment we know this same week – the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia declared null and illegal the Post Office of the Labour Council for 2014. And then there's advisory data: cut from 535 million euros in its council since 2009, gross increase in coke to users, and now also blackmail to Galician municipalities. And letters, letters that are reaching them thousands, many of the Galician families these days, where they are increased more than twice or triple the amount they're making to be eligible for a residential allowance or a day center. People who have to pay 570 euros a month to the Labour Council, with pensions of 600 euros, in order to be in a residence. What's left of those people to get dressed, for their personal expenses? Or in the case of those who only attend day centers, what's left to care for their homes and their maintenance, counselor? In view of this, what are you going to do? Before the empirical demonstration that you can't do more with less, that you less do less and suffer more than you have, what do you do, Counselor?, will you again boast here of the figures of the public squares created, of the lies that Mr. Feijóo used to?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u287	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u288	Counsellor, I ask answers, the questions are put in writing, and I stress actions: replenishment of the public squares eliminated these years, investment in these centres, the action of inspection and rectification of these reactionary policies, which are lacking in respect of and the dignity that we owe as a society to older people and dependent people. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u289	Thank you very much, Mrs Gallego. The work and well-being advisor, Mrs. Beatriz Mato, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u290	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, working ladies of the Labour and Welfare Council. Yes, Your Honor, I shall indeed speak of the public service and public squares and, above all, of the commitment of the Government of Galicia to put more public squares into operation since 2009. I know that Mrs Gallego is very upset that we remind her of the number of public squares that have been set in motion since 2009, which is 7,800 public squares between minors and adults. I know it bothers, even you're capable of saying that I'm a lie, even if we betray it by building, square by square, all the squares here in this Parliament. But what's true is that these 7,800 squares are linked to people who need it most – obviously, our elders too –: 3,100 public squares made available to our seniors, 800 for disability, 3,800 for children's schools from 0 to 3 years old. Obviously, Your Honor, all this would not be possible if you had not made a great effort, not only for the Government, but also for all the workers, who are behind these 7,800 new squares that have been in operation since 2009. In particular, of the 415 million euros of budget that this social area has, this council, but in its social area, about 47%, 47% of these 415 million euros is intended to ensure the maintenance and operation of these public squares, in particular, of the 24,400 public squares that exist in our community. Because the squares, besides creating them, besides putting them to work, have to keep them. In fact, those 7,800 new public squares that exist in our community cost around 49 million euros, about 50 million euros just to keep them open, which is what we're doing, since they're in operation. And obviously, in addition to this effort, there is also the effort we make to keep the facilities proper to this office in optimal conditions, in acceptable conditions and, of course, in accordance with strict labour regulations and even in social matters. In fact, since 2009, when it comes to pure investment, not only in construction, but also in the reform and equipment of all the facilities dependent on the Labour and Welfare Council, 95 million euros have been invested; 95 million euros at the worst moment for the joints of Galicia, when we had 25 percent less of the total funding of the board of Galicia. I insist: 95 million euros to create new squares, for works of new squares, but also for works of center reforms of the Galician Union and even for equipment, as it was done in residences, since we speak of residences of major and disability, such as that of Marín, such as that of the Road, as that of Bande, like that of Barbados, even in some of them like that of Coruña. They all served to improve attention in residential centers, in day care centers and in people with disabilities. And here I would like to announce the firm commitment that in this semester there will be 700,000 euros more precisely to be able to supply all the residences of the material that, as you said very well, has been communicated to us, connected to the cranes and tied to beds. That is the commitment we have from the Council for this first semester, giving an answer, indeed, to the demand and contact that we have with the Council for the workers. [[Applause]] And of course, of course, lordship, the fundamental pier of any entity, of any company and – as it cannot be otherwise – are also the workers and workers who daily perform that service to the elderly, to the disabled, and even to the small ones, who are above the governments, because they are working year by year alongside those who need it most. It would be of no use to have the technical means if we don't have the necessary personnel. So I want to take advantage of it here to make an express recognition to the work of all the workers in this council; nothing would have been possible without their commitment and effort. We're talking about about 6,000 people working directly in this council, between the Council and also the consortium dedicated to children's schools and residential centers and day centers. The current balance of creation and depreciation – I think that the data, Mrs. Gallego, you are also a specialist in mistaking the data – is the real balance that exists – because, of course, these 7,800 squares are absolutely necessary to keep them workers – between the amortised and created posts within the Galician Union plus the consortium is positive. In other words, 325 new direct jobs were created linked to the administration, linked to the Council and linked to the Council of Galicia. And this does not agree at all, Your Honor, with the responsibilities that you had as a member of the former Bipartisan Government when in this council, in 2009, when this government arrived, in chapter I – i.e., in the chapter directly bound to pay for workers’ payrolls – there was a hole of 20 million euros. Twenty million euros of the policy that developed the bipartite to throw forward without knowing where the money was going to be taken so that at the end the rest of the Government of Galicia had to deal with the payrolls of these workers and pay for that unbalanced uncontrollable staff policy they were doing in the Galician Union. I can assure you that I know the effort that each of the workers and workers of this council are making, that they obviously work, they fit, rather than the bipartite, because what we don't do is leave 20 million euros holes in Chapter I of the Council. But I can also say that the Staff Regulations of Workers are strictly complied with, that the number of hours that the staff of the centres of this council office has, that at no time exceeds 1,665 hours a year, and that the weekly breaks are also met, both on a weekly basis and, of course, on a week-end, which are the legal ones and which perfectly collects the Staff Regulations of Workers. As for the judgments you speak of, Your Honor, I know them very well, but, of course, neither – I mean – are these judgments not questioning the background but the form. Because what the judge really condemned was the negotiation procedure, which was premeditated too carefully since the Council's delegation. And what's critical, which doesn't condemn or impose, because it's a declarative sentence, are the forms, not the background. This doesn't mean, Your Honor, you don't know that you can, if you fit, improve, and improve much, and improve the hands of the workers, listening and talking to them. Of course, there's always a chance to improve. We are aware that the most valuable thing we have in the Council, – I insist – in all entities, is human capital, and that's why we work and we will work every day to improve, if possible, their working conditions and equipment. And that's why I want to announce to you that you've been invited, since last week, so that tomorrow we can meet at the Council once again with union representatives to make a proposal, which is to improve the working conditions of all the workers at the Wellness Centres. The proposal made by the Council picks up the last meeting with the unions, the last meeting where they specifically asked the Council that they did not want economic incentives and that what they all wanted was precisely the extension of the number of workers, which would allow, if possible, greater rest. One hundred and seventy meetings have been held since this council, since this government has been in the hands of the various delegations and the different leaders of this council. But if it's up to the secretary-general, who is after the adviser the highest authority in the field of labour relations within the Council, since 2012 the secretary-general has held twenty-two meetings with the workers' representatives. So much so that our proposal is based precisely on the demands – I insist – of the last meeting made by workers' unions, which waged to increase the number of workers rather than economic incentives. This meeting - tomorrow's - won't be a hypothesis, it's with trade union organizations, and of course we'll talk about what they want to talk about in order to respond once again to their demands and improve, if it fits, their quality at work. And, Your Honor, it's roundly false that people go hungry, it's roundly false that they're not cared for in residences. You bring photos of mattresses here on the floor of a residence so that the older will sleep the sixth. So, in a dormitory where they sleep at night, do we need mattresses to sleep in the nap?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u291	Thank you very much, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u292	Home!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u293	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u294	Obviously, Your Honor, I don't think it fits...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u295	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u296	I'll give everyone an answer...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u297	Thank you very much, Counselor. [[Lady Labour and Wellness Counsellor pronounces words that are not perceived.]] [[Applause]] Mrs Gallego Calvar's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u298	Counselor, I don't know if you recognize them, they're from the Personal Care Center in the Coruña, the town of Coruña; they're photographs of the staff working there, and they're actually mattresses for older people to sleep on the sixth after eating. This is the situation. And the humiditys, the holes on the roof are these, and so is this. And this happens there, too, Counselor. You've been in government for six years, you know, not yesterday. This situation exists and if you do not want to take care of it, then of course this situation will continue to happen. [[Murmurs.]] But this situation is reality, counselor; here we bring things as they are. Look, of the questions we asked you, of course, you took care not to answer any of them, because what we asked you was exactly in every personal center how personal there was now, how personal there was before, what personnel... actually. You're talking about the increase of 325 squares. You cheat, counselor; I'm asking you about public centers and public squares, I'm not asking you about anything else. Look, you're not too legitimized here to talk about using public money, are you? Because it seems that at one point he was forgotten to have to use the public money and use it or it seemed to be used to finance the People's Party of the Crown with the workers' training courses, counsellor. That's what you used the public money for. [[Applause]] [[Murmurs.]] Look, Counselor, every time you talk...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u299	Mrs. Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u300	Yes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u301	Mrs. Gallego, please, I don't think we have to make free accusations. And at least I'd ask you... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u302	I'm not making free accusations, Counselor...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u303	Mrs. Gallego, I'm talking.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u304	...or the president, the only thing I'm doing...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u305	Mrs. Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u306	...is to manifest what comes out every day in the media...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u307	Mrs. Gallego!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u308	...and that they denounce a gentleman who is being prosecuted, nothing more.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u309	Mrs. Gallego!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u310	Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u311	Mrs. Gallego!, I'm talking about time.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u312	All right.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u313	All I'm telling you is that I don't think it's going to happen to keep parliamentary courtesy and at least the presumption of things and make no accusations. It's just what I ask of you. You keep talking.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u314	President, when I say "seems," it doesn't seem to be a statement, it seems, it's assumed. I don't know if you understand that, I understand that. [[Murmurs.]] And that's what it looks like, Counselor, every day she goes out in the press. Look, public squares. You come here and say something every time. In the interpellation of the previous plenary he told the lady of the Joint Group 7,000 squares, now it says 7,800; in the children's schools he said 3,300, now he said 3,800; and in the disabled, he said 840, today under them, he said 800. Counselor, stop dancing with public squares. Look, you know what happens to public squares? That of the 58 open childhood schools since you rule only four were planned by the Government of Feijóo; that of the 38 open day and residential and disability centres only one was planned by the Government of Feijóo; that all open centres since the rule of President Feijóo are in private management, except three: that of Sada, Cerceda and Walls. And you, Counselor, in all ratios compared to the other autonomous communities in the state are below, they're in half. For example, in residential care for people with disabilities, you're in a square for every 73 people, and the state average one for every 52; in day-to-day and occupational care, you're in a square for every 58 people, and in the middle of the state there's one for every 30 people; in residential squares for people over 65, you're in 2.8 squares for every 100 people, and in the state you're in 4.3 counsellor. And if we just stick to public squares: 0.6 per 100 in Galicia, and 1.15 in the middle of the state. That's the data, advisor. Look, what do you say, when you found out that we brought this question to the agenda, you agreed to meet with the Labour and Welfare Council Working Committee? Is that so, Counselor? Because the court rulings are for you to rectify your policy. Or what do you want, that workers and workers every year have to go and denounce the poster that you do without dialogue and impose unilaterally so that then when there is a sentence, it comes out just when it's over that year and, therefore, you can't go back, you take a picture because there come the municipal elections, the generals or the autonomics, as you did on your day with the pre-autonomics guidance and guidance workers, and as soon as the elections fire us? This is your policy, Counselor. [[Murmurs.]] Responding...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u315	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u316	...rectify. Because you can't do any less, counselor, because with less of what you do is make people suffer from the weakest people in society, and that's their ideological roadmap. As much as you come here to disguise one day yes and another also the figures, which are, as long as you and Mr Feijó give them, false.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u317	The work and well-being advisor, Mrs. Beatriz Mato, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u318	Thank you very much, President. No, the truth is, I don't expect a lot of courtesy; I don't, of course, expect this parliamentary courtesy, no. But it is true that at least I would like to clarify the data that is true one by one. For I now speak to you of 7,800 public squares – which is Scottish to you, which is true that every time I speak of new public squares – it is Scottish to you. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Well, he's been reading the Galician Official Journal, where children's school squares are registered, and you'll see that 500 children's school squares have been convened for 15 days, which have not been planned by the party and which have been made by this government. Your Honor, plan, plan. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] [[Applause]] You'll be happy if all government management is planning, because you're the only one who's done it seems to have been planning, but budgeting, compromising, building and keeping no. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u319	Silence, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u320	So you'll think that by setting up a plan or even making a plan to have a day center, you already have a public square. Well, look, no, you have to have it budgeted, and besides you have it budgeted, you have to keep it. [[Murmurs.]] And it was this government – it is forgotten – that created the 7,800 new public squares, and that kept them one by one; and of course they were created and maintained. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] And when I talk about resources, I'm talking about all the public centers, because for me all the centers under the consortium are still being public and even the squares are also being public. You're critical, because it's a continuous thug, that of private management, but do you have anything wrong to arrange public squares with entities?, do you have anything wrong? Because, as I know, fifteen days ago you were forced to enter public squares with disabilities for Gaspar, right now? Now, what do you want, what do we talk about only the single centers that depend on the Galician Union, or do you want us to talk about the concerted squares and outsourcings? As always is the demagogy of always. [[Murmurs.]] I sometimes think you can have the same criterion within the PSdG in Andalusia than in Galicia, but how will it be possible if not even the same person is able to maintain the same criterion fifteen consecutive days? It's impossible! [[Applause]] 80% of Andalusia's public squares are privatized, according to the language of the Socialist Party, not mine. [[Murmurs.]] Eighty percent of the Socialist Party's public squares are privatized, but they come here and privatization is like a kind of demon that you can't talk about. [[Applause]] But in my case, the most important thing to me is, of course, to give them an answer to what the Greeks demand, which are more public squares and, of course, to do in the hands of those who, whether this Government or any other government, will continue to do their work, by vocation, by commitment and effort, who are the workers of the Unity of Galicia, and to whom we speak day by day. I already told you that it was one hundred and seventy meetings we had from delegations and the Council, that the secretary-general had five meetings with the unions last year, and that there will be one more meeting tomorrow. Of course, Your Honor, I am very sorry that I have... and you are important to me, but not important enough to call a meeting with the Council's workers. So we have to keep talking to them, to give them faith and commitment of the 700,000 new euros that will invest in material, that will guarantee better attention and also a smaller effort for them, so that they can also work more comfortably, and, above all, to respond to what they demanded at the last meeting, that they were not economic incentives, but increase the number of workers so that they can have the rest they expect and that they want to negotiate with us. You said you didn't answer the specific questions. Well, as I told you, about the jobs you removed from the Council, I already tell you that between the Council and the consortium more than 323 – 325 in particular – new squares were created. He said how many jobs have been amortized since 2009. Yes, indeed, plazas were amortized, but they were created more, because what was done was a reorganization of the work. In fact, in the area you're concerned about, which is the larger area, 96 squares have been depreciated, and 170 posts have been created. I'm talking only about RPT. You said what was the investment in human resources in 2009. About 20 million holes, that was the investment in human resources; 20 million holes that left the government bipartite in chapter I to deal with the payrolls of the workers of this council. And this government, in particular...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u321	Thank you very much, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u322	...is allocating resources, and most importantly negotiating with the workers, which is what I'm most interested in. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u323	We continue with the development of the agenda, with questions to the Government, with the change that has already been reported. So we then put to the question of Mr. Juan Carlos González Santín. Question by Juan Carlos González Santín and seven other Members of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, about the knowledge by the Labour and Wellbeing Council of the current situation in which people are occupying a square in the Residence of Majors of the Gandaras, Lugo
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u324	You have the word, to put your question, Mr. González Santín.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u325	Thank you, President. Counsellor, good afternoon. I come here to ask you a very specific question. I hope you don't talk to me about the bipartite, talk to me about concerted squares, own squares or anything else. I'm hoping you'll tell me about your management, your management. I'm talking to you about Lugo's third-aged Gandaras residence. A short time ago, a few months ago, in this center directly dependent on his counseling, a spur of legionella appeared. We don't want to be demagogic about this subject, and of course I think we behave ethically, because we understand that this can happen in any center. I'm telling you, we've been worried about this situation being hidden for three days. But on the 26th of last month we woke up with a press article – I had no news of what happened until then – in what the company committee brings to the attention of all the lumens a situation that is very serious for me in the Gandaras residence. Again, I had no idea of this situation. In particular, they speak of the second floor of this residence, and many of the people who are on this second floor are dependent. They were saying that some older people – we're talking about our older ones – had been lost, people with cognitive deterioration, who had even had to be recovered by the police; greater people who were disoriented and who were sleeping in other people's beds at night; bigger people who were sleeping in clothes. And that the workers had to switch from plant to plant the residents to take basic care of them, to cure them, to change their leather or to give them the medication. I repeat: we scandalized ourselves with this situation and we were very concerned. I suppose you'd be worried too. That's why the question we ask you is very clear: do you know the Galician Union, in particular you, the situation that is taking place in the Gandaras residence? And of course, of course, what are you going to do? Because I – I'm not a specialist on these issues – too, I think there are a number of workers who have to be according to the number of residents. And I think you've confirmed that this residence doesn't do it. On each plant there are in particular twenty-six inmates, and taking away the plant – plant number 2 – there are twelve helpers per plant; I'm not talking to you about other types of staff, such as nurses, doctors, what we could talk about, if you want. There's an assistant on this second floor. What do you mean? That you have to attend to twenty-four hours, and obviously people work eight hours. What would happen at night? What's the matter with the weekends? There's no one. What's with the holidays? There's no one. And it has to be your colleagues from the other plants who care – as I tell you – for these older ones. In the same press release, I was drawn to the attention that the Council – I put to the press note, you confirmed it now – said that I was going to incorporate five more assistants. Tell me, Counselor, that's the way it was. My question is clear: do you know what's going on there, all this that the company committee says is going on? And what...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u326	Thank you very much, Mr. González Santín. [[Mr. González Santín pronounces words that are not perceived.]] [[Applause]] Thank you very much. The work and well-being advisor, Mrs. Beatriz Mato Otero, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u327	Thank you, President. Your Honor, the truth is that if I was informed of the situation that was being lived in this center, and as you said very well, it was a centre of significance for an incident that occurred in the last few months linked to the legionla. But first of all, I would like to begin by making continuity, if possible, of the intervention I did before, with an express recognition of the work they are developing not only in the Gandaras residence, but the nearly 6,000 workers, in particular, 3,000 who are linked to the older and disabled people, because I really guarantee them that I know perfectly the effort and work they are doing. And, if it fits, The Gandaras is an example of that, and very good, because precisely in this episode of legionla they were able to give it from the chest and do much more work, and, above all, a work in an ear -- and I thank you for not having done politics of that -- a silent work, because, indeed, this episode of legionla can happen to anyone, and fortunately, it is already past. On February 20, she went to visit the General Secretary of Social Policy. I don't know if she matches exactly the date of that publication you're talking about. But on February 20, the Secretary General of Social Policy visited the residence to first-hand know the situation you had described, above all, in matters of personnel and, above all, linked to the second floor. And, in fact, we found that there were staff on that second floor, which is not that of dependents, very few of these twenty-two people who are on the second floor are dependents, we're talking about autonomous people. You're talking about people who have cognitive deterioration, probably those who are identified as dependent people, but we actually see the need of these five new assistants who are linked directly to this plant to provide coverage to those times of what you were talking about, and that somehow guarantee the non-enforcement of the worker or assistant worker who was on that plant. This solution for us is a temporary solution, and we want it to be definitive. And to be definitive, it has to be incorporated into the TPP formally, that is, these five squares are not temporary and remain forever. And the RPT our intention is to approve it just as soon as tomorrow we have the agreement presented with the unions on breaks to be able to develop exactly those new squares, those new jobs, which we have to deal with with the unions and even these five more people. Finally, of course, Your Honor, I can assure you that I know the situation of the Gandaras, which, as I know it, I have made a solution to try to help as much as possible the development of the work that all the professionals do, not only those of the Gandaras, and which, of course, will do in the way I understand what must be done, which is not provisional as it is now, which is now provisional, but also through the RPT, which we will publish in a few months after the meeting with the unions. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u328	Thank you very much. Mr. González Santín's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u329	Thank you. Well, first of all, I thank you for at least recognizing the situation in the centre of the Gandaras. As you say, it's a patch, a temporary situation. The question I should ask you now is, how long will it last? And, above all, are you going to put only five auxiliaries or will you do like in the rest of the plants, where there are twelve? Because we'd be talking about 50%. So the question I also think is obvious: what's going on? In the rest of the plants they're overwhelmed? I also have to agree with you on something else: in the over effort that the staff and the workers there are doing. Because, of course, they are the ones who have to suffer, from my point of view – and do not take it as personal – the lack of management in the center. Because, look, obviously, there's a staff problem, and it's also derived a little from what was said in the previous interpellation. To do more with less is impossible, Counselor, it's impossible. There are certain things to be given, and the staff is one of them. You know you have a problem with Article 19, which is the rest of the staff, in particular, with the workers of the Galician Union who depend on their advice. There are many workers in this center and in others who are doing seven consecutive days, there are workers who are doing more than they can be demanded. And you know why? Well it's very simple, because the management that's being done in these centers is not the right one. And you know why it's not the right one? Not because the workers work hard or because the workers don't do what they have to do, that they do more than they could be demanded; the problem is that they don't provide resources for the centers, and one example of this is the center of the Gandaras. And I repeat, we're talking about a public center, a public center where we have our seniors. And I think, of course, if this is the way or, at least, the face in which your advisor's office is managing senior residences, I think that that says very little about your advisor's office and you should take the thing very seriously. Because, I repeat: little we can talk about a center when the advisor himself is recognizing that there is a serious problem, and – I repeat – you will have to give him a definitive solution...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u330	Thank you very much, Mr. González Santín. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Replica from the Work Councillor and Wellness.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u331	Thank you, President. Your Honor, how long will these five squares be provisionally, man! I wouldn't dare tell you a particular date, because it's true that after tomorrow's meeting, where we have the opportunity to specify how many more workers we're going to join the Council, then we have to do the RPT, which, as you know, is also required in the Official Journal of Galicia. So this will be a matter of months, I can't give you the exact date. And about the next concern you have, if with five you'll be satisfied or you won't be satisfied, that's something we'll also talk to the unions, because the total number is negotiated for the entire Council, that is, for all residences, and it may be that the Gandaras touches some, but obviously now I can't facilitate this data. What I do make it easier for you is an explanation, which I think also fits within the logic, without telling you the ratio that you have to demand to care for a dependent person or a person who is not dependent. But – as you said – these five people are framed on the second floor, where most of them are people who are autonomous, who are not dependent, and the ratio that is required is much lower. You were talking about that there were twelve people in the first one, for example, in front of five, and that's because dependents need a larger ratio of attention. But in addition to all this, if I would like to reassure you, if possible, by ensuring that in the center of the Gandaras, as in other centers, the whole residence is strictly fulfilling the ratio; i.e., the care ratios of auxiliary turoculturers, caregivers, all the staff that need both dependents and are not being met. Another thing is that, of course, in this negotiation, we can facilitate more rest for those staff, which as you said works for seven days. And, in fact, they comply with the Staff Regulations, we are strictly fulfilling the Staff Regulations, even the number of hours per week and the rests to which by statute they are entitled, which is one and a half days, even twelve hours interspersed between days and days. But, of course, I can assure you that I am the first interested, not only for the benefit of the caregivers, that is, of the residents, but for the satisfaction of the workers in whom they are much more comfortable. And, Mr. Sánchez, I can assure you that more can be done with less. We've done more with less, we've got 25% less budget at the Galician Council and we're creating 7,800 new squares. That doesn't mean that the policy of chapter I is, of course, the one that was imposing the two-party government. I repeat: 20 million euros, Mr Sánchez, 20 million euros in this debt advisor's office to pay the payrolls in December, which had to take over the whole of Galicia. [[Murmurs.]] For my part, that's all. Anyway, I share your concern and thank you for giving me the opportunity to explain what we will do not only in the Gandara, but in the rest of the residences. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u332	Thank you very much, Counselor. Question by D. Alejandro Gómez Alonso, from G.P. Most popular of Galicia, on the forecasts of the Galician Union in relation to the degree of implementation of the Galician Metropolitan Transport Plan for 2015
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u333	Mr. Gómez Alonso has the floor to ask his question.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u334	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs. Environmental, Territorial and Infrastructure Adviser. Ladies and gentlemen, since our parliamentary group, we assume that Members of the Socialist Bank will share with this House's majority group that the deployment of metropolitan transport in Galicia is beneficial to all users and users who are currently enjoying it. And we also suppose, ladies and gentlemen, that you will remember that the metropolitan transport of Galicia is the result of a plan that was approved by a Government of the People's Party in 2004 and started its journey in 2005 with the implementation of this service in the cities of Coruña and Ferrol. But, Counsellor, as you well know, with the two-party Government this Metropolitan Transport Plan has been systematically paralyzed and blocked for four years. What is more, even the circumstance was that the only proposal for a resolution that was adopted on infrastructure as the bipartisan rule in this House, in the debates of the state of Autonomy, was one year after another the deployment of metropolitan transport in Galicia, which, of course, never happened. And, of course, the lamentable situation in this situation is the years that have been lost in the implementation of this important service. The unfortunate situation is that the socialists, who then ruled in the Environmental, Territorial and Infrastructure Council, were neither able to understand themselves nor even with the mayors of their own party; they were unable to understand Lugo's socialist mayor, the socialist mayor of Ourense and, of course, the already famous socialist mayor of Vigo. But I suppose Members who know him better, such as Mr Losada and Mr Gallego Lumba, will agree with this parliamentary group in which it is difficult to reach an agreement with the Mayor of Vigo, because he is unable or able to understand himself, because he always wants to have the last word. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] What is the situation today, ladies and gentlemen? The current situation is that it is implanted in four large metropolitan areas, which are issued more than 226,000 cards and potentially benefits more than 924,000 users. The current situation, ladies and gentlemen, is that an important agreement has just been signed with twelve municipalities in the metropolitan area of Vigo, in which all the municipalities in that area were joined, except Gondomar and Vigo. The explanation of the Gondomar Town Hall is for a problem of penetration of their services at the bus station. And I ask your lords of the Socialist Party: what is the problem with the Vigo Council? what is the explanation for denying Vigo entering the metropolitan transport? [[Murmurs.]] Mr. Gallego Lumba, you who defend so much to Mr. Caballero...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u335	Mr. Gallego, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u336	...what is the problem with denying Vigo citizens benefit from this service? Because he has no explanation. The only possible explanation is that Vigo's metropolitan transport doesn't reach Vigo for Mr. Caballero's political shawl, for Mr. Caballero's political shawl... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u337	Thank you very much, Mr. Gómez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u338	And that's why we asked him...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u339	Time's up. [[Mr. Gómez Alonso utters words that are not perceived.]] Your time is up, Mr. Gómez Alonso. You have the floor to Mrs Vázquez Mourelle.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u340	Thank you, President. Mr President, Mr Gómez Alonso, since Galicia was one of the first autonomous communities to bet on and promote the Metropolitan Transport Plan, a collective transport in metropolitan areas. An initiative that took its first steps in the years 2004 and 2005 and that, of course, in 2010 saw a decisive step in the current Government of the Union, because it is born with the fundamental objective of offering citizens coordinated and attractive public transport, and that it is a real alternative to the private vehicle in the metropolitan areas of the big cities. Its launch has provided a public transport system for citizens, who benefit from subsidies on the bus ticket, who enjoy better coordination and improved services, improved infrastructure and, of course, advantages of public transport; efficient public transport because it frees the city centre from physical space and reduces pollution; and, of course, fluidity of traffic and disconnection in cities. We're talking about a plan that's already consolidated into four major urban areas: Coruña, Santiago, Ferrol and Lugo, and in 2015 we're marking a goal: the goal of boosting, incorporating these four new areas of the city, and of course working to make it a reality in the Ourense area and in Pontevedra area as well. And in the Vigo area we made progress with a very important step, a very important step, because last March 4 we signed the agreement with the implementation of the Metropolitan Transport Plan with twelve municipalities, with twelve local authorities. It will be launched in spring and will involve an investment of 12 million euros, bringing the 12 million euros to the twelve Councils of Galicia in the period 2015-2019. We are faced with an agreement of the Autonomous Executive and twelve municipalities, where we seal our willingness to understand each other and share services for and for the benefit of the citizens. We regret that Vigo's Metropolitan Transport Plan is born without the headquarter, without Vigo, and without another municipality, Gondomar, who on two occasions has refused its incorporation. We cannot understand from the German Government these negatives into a system that would have advantages for citizens, a system in which the Galician Union reaches 80% and a system that has saved the Greeks from its launch 33 million euros in their movements in public transport. I would like one day the political leaders of the decisions that prevent them from joining the Metropolitan Transport Plan explained those decisions, because, for our part, lordship, will and dialogue to expand the areas of the Metropolitan Transport Plan and expand the area of Vigo, tendon and open doors to incorporate into the Head Council.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u341	Thank you very much, Counselor. Thank you very much. Replica by Don Alejandro Gómez Alonso.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u342	Thank you very much, Madam President. Counsellor, you are clear what are the advantages of metropolitan transport for the users of the forty-five municipalities in which it is currently implemented. That's all we need to do is put some examples of the savings that are being produced in these metropolitan areas. We are going to put three examples: a neighbour of Mine who works in Ferrol can save the year thanks to metropolitan transport more than 1,000 euros; a neighbor of Guntín who works in Lugo can save more than 1,100 euros; or a neighbor of the Larach who works in the Coruña can save more than 900 euros. We first explained or asked them rhetorically – not to question them, of course – to Socialist Members, in particular to the Vigeist Socialists, whether they also share the advantages of the use of metropolitan transport as well as the savings and quality of service for users, in this case of the city of Vigo. Because if you share it with your mayor, Mr. Abel Caballero, who by political insanity refuses to implement it at the head of the district of the Vigo metropolitan area, so that all Vigo citizens can benefit from savings above EUR 1,000 a year, ladies and gentlemen. In addition, one could also look for a formula to make it more profitable and improve the transport services of the Vigo River. [[Murmurs.]] But, of course, as there are situations that are frankly difficult to justify, perhaps some socialist Member of this Parliament, as they do not explain why the refusal is not explained, because they have to be absent because they are unable to justify what their head of line in the Mayor of Vigo. It's hard to explain. [[Applause]] And, of course, now we will have to wait for what the polls dictate. But what's clear is that Mr. Caballero's political shawl is detrimental to Vigo's users, and it's clear that Mr. Caballero's going to mark a new milestone in...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u343	Thank you very much. [[Mr. Gómez Alonso utters words that are not perceived.]] [[Applause]] Thank you very much. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Murmurs.]] The Environmental, Territorial and Infrastructure Adviser has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u344	Thank you, Madam President. Since June: will to bet on the Metropolitan Transport Plan, will to be translated into economic terms: 43% more in the 2015 financial year for this plan. And we work with the double objective: expanding, implementing this plan in the Ourense and Pontevedra areas, and expanding the benefits of the Metropolitan Transport Plan in the areas where it is already implemented, extending the model to more municipalities. In total, nine more municipalities have already requested their incorporation: Baleira, Curtis, The Road, Pattern, Santa Comba, The Bath, Village of Cruces, Carballo and Orders. To give an example: a neighbor on the Highway who travels to Santiago will benefit from a 40% saving on the bus ticket. And once the procedures have been carried out with the effective implementation of the Vigo area and the expansion of existing ones, we will incorporate more than half a million Greeks into this plan, access to the advantages of this plan, and since 2010 we have agreed on this model with forty-five municipalities, benefiting... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u345	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u346	...to 900,000 Greeks. And I insist and repeat: thanks to this system, the Greeks saved 33 million euros in their long-distance transport movements, in which the Union reached 27 million euros. With the incorporation of twenty-one more municipalities, the ten Vigo and the nine municipalities that have applied for implementation in existing areas, there will be sixty-six municipalities that adhered to this plan and 1.5 million Greeks who will access the advantages of this plan. [[Murmurs.]] We regret the political decisions that prevent the vigues from fully benefiting from the advantages of the Metropolitan Transport Plan by the refusal of the mayor of Vigo to join this initiative, which would allow free transhipments to the urban bus and its metropolitan movements. We did not understand what led to the rejection of this plan, which in its day had the consensus and support of socialist mayors such as the Coruña, Lugo, Santiago and Ferrol, all of them. And, of course, I would like you to take the general interest of your citizens, those of Vigo; I would like the Vigo Town Hall to take part in the same conditions as those sixty-six municipalities that will be incorporated into this Metropolitan Transport Plan; I would like you to fully enjoy all the advantages of the Metropolitan Transport Plan. Of course, the door is open and I hope and hope that the mayor of Vigo will join this spirit of these sixty-six municipalities of different political colors to unite wills and services for citizens. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u347	Thank you very much. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I'm sorry, I'm sorry. What do you want the word for, Mr. Losada? Well, what do you want the word for? Let's leave them...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u348	On the basis of Article 76.1, it says that if "in the development of debates there were allusions involving judgments of value or inaccuracies on the person or conduct of a Member, the use of the word, if so requested, will be granted for a period of three minutes."
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u349	Well, I heard. Excuse me a moment...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u350	Not only did he mention me, but he asked me.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u351	Wait a minute. I've heard what you want, so now you turn off your microphone and I'll talk to you. Mr. Losada, I didn't hear any names. What do you want me to say? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Sorry, sorry, Mr. Losada. But can I talk? Let me talk? I didn't hear any names. If you'll excuse me, if you'll excuse me, I thought you were referring to another Member and not you. [[Murmurs.]] Checked if I didn't hear any names. [[Murmurs.]] And, therefore... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Mrs. Quintas, do you have the floor? Let's see. [[Protests.]] Well, if you don't mind, Mr. Losada, I didn't hear your name, and if you don't mind... [[Mr. Losada Álvarez pronounces words that are not perceived.]] I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u352	...and rhetoric misunderstands it. It's not rhetoric, it's municipal election campaign, as you know.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u353	Well, that's it. That's it, all right. Thank you very much. We continue with the development of the agenda. [[Murmurs.]] Sorry, please, we're going to continue and, if you think so, we're going to end the afternoon quietly... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] That's it. We're going to finish the afternoon quietly. Da Ana Belén's question Pontón Mondelo, from G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the intention of the Ministry of Development to restrict the movement of heavy traffic on certain roads in Galicia and its derivation towards highways
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u354	Since it is not present, in accordance with Article 75.1, it is understood that the use of the word is waived. The question therefore declines. We continue with the next question. Question by Mr Jesús Vázquez Abad and seven other Members of the G.P. Galician people, about the actions planned by the Galician Union for the cleaning, rehabilitation and placing in value of the Roman bridge of Ourense
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u355	You have the word of the Lord Jesus Vázquez Abad to ask his question.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u356	Thank you very much. Good afternoon to all and to all. Counsellor, of course, it is an honor to ask you today this question about what is undoubtedly one of Ourense's main symbols. I'm referring to your Roman bridge or old bridge, which gives you your presence on the very shield of the city of Burgas... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u357	Quiet, please. Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u358	...for centuries, and even on the provincial shield.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u359	I'm sorry, sir. I pray silence, if we do not hear. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Mr. Fajardo, don't start, you don't have the floor. [[Murmurs.]] Let's see, I suppose, Miss Gallego, that this part of the bench has the right to ask, too. [[Mrs. Gallego Calvar speaks words that are not perceived.]] Then we'll let the deputy ask. [[Protests.]] Do the favor. Mr. Vázquez Abad, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u360	Thank you very much. As you know, this millennial infrastructure, originally built in the first century, probably at the time of Augusto, in order to facilitate communication entrails them two banks of the Mine, has been contemplating the becoming of this city and its inhabitants for centuries, also enduring the passage of time with a monumentality that still today itself and strangers of course embraces us. I think the reasons for putting into value this prouder far more than well-founded are patented by a simple review of his history. This bridge, considered to be one of the greatest works of the road engineering of its time, was part of a secondary branch of the so-called "Via Nova", drifting along its path around the enclave of Aquis Querkennis and towards Lucus Augusti, for which it was necessary to cross precisely the Mine at the height of Ourense. On this primitive Roman structure – from which only a few vestiges remain in the foundations – have been carried out with the slowing down of time many reforms and reconstructions, some of which have been quite wide-ranging, which have remarkably transformed their appearance until they reach their modern recognizable medieval silhouette, which allows monumental rescue of the Minor River. Declared a historical-artistic monument in 1961, along with the chapel of our Lady of Remedies, it was the only permanent way of communication between both banks of the river until well entered the 20th century, and through it passes also the southwest Way, also known as the Mozarab Way and Via da Plata, so they circulate about 10,000 pilgrims every year. Finally, Madam Counsellor, this heritage asset is an indissoluble part of the history of Ourense and Galicia, so we understand that this unquestionable value of heritage, tourism and even symbolic must be translated into actions that allow for its effective improvement, a work in which different administrations must be involved. Some of them think they didn't want to understand it this way, from the local administration itself, so that those interventions that are considered more appropriate for their position in value can be materialized as effectively and as readily as possible, in view of the laughter that seems to provoke in the opposition parties to my city of Ourense. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u361	Thank you. Mrs. Ethel Vázquez has the floor of the Environmental, Territorial and Infrastructure Advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u362	Thank you, President. Mr President, Mr Vázquez Abad, the relevance of the Roman bridge in Ourense is far beyond its usefulness and its strategic infrastructure condition since it was executed and built in the first century. Transcension lies in its high cultural value. It was declared a historical-artistic monument in 1961 and soon has become a major emblem and tourist claim in this municipality. We are faced with one of the most valuable works of Roman origin that Galicia has, we are faced with a wealth of heritage interest that all citizens and administrations have an obligation to care for, protect and preserve, and so we have come to do so from the Autonomic Administration in recent years, with cleaning work in recent years from 2010 to 2013 and works that have been done following manual procedures, respectful of course not to damage its structure. And currently the old bridge presents a good state in its structure, it does not need great restoration works, but it is indeed convenient and necessary and advisable to perform certain actions that contribute to good maintenance and better conservation, therefore to its position in value. Since June we want to continue to look after this jewel, this jewel of Roman civil architecture, and so we're working from the Infrastructure Council in collaboration with the Culture Council, and with this objective we've developed a study to evaluate the current state and identify the actions needed to contribute to its position in value. This document defines a total of fifteen performances on the Roman bridge, but also around it, and that we will develop progressively. The first of them, a manual withdrawal, of course carried out in a completely respectful manner, and which we will immediately – we will begin in the next month of April – and in parallel we will draft the constructive project that will define a series of actions that will soon contribute to strengthening the symbol that is the Roman bridge in Ourense. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u363	Mr. Vázquez Abad's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u364	Madam President. Counsellor, as soon as I thank you for your successful response and I think it is clear that the Union's involvement is a firm bet on the improvement of such an important monument for the Greek heritage as this bridge is, truly cross-crossed by roads and nexus of union and meeting within the Roman era. I'm sure these performances you've been referring to will undoubtedly contribute to the value of one of the most emblematic goods in this city, whose uniqueness makes it one of its most recognizable outlines of identity. A secular relevance to the articulation since our territory which has even been reflected in the well-known popular song along with two other important appointments that made up the becoming of this city. I mean the Burgas and the Cathedral itself. From the People's Parliamentary Group we believe that these values should be more than enough to stimulate and ensure the involvement of all administrations in this work, especially those closest to the citizen, so that among all efforts are made to bring the greatest cultural and tourist party to this infrastructure and especially that beautiful city in the interior. That is why we again appreciate the involvement of the Union and appeal to the joint responsibility of the council itself in the defence and improvement of the position in value and promotion of this emblematic heritage. No more, I want to thank you for your answer, but I would really like to know what they are and what the executional forecasts and deadlines are for their development, for the development of these jobs, as well as some more detail that you consider to be of interest to highlight. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u365	Replication of the Environmental, Territorial and Infrastructure Adviser.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u366	Thank you, President. Your Honor, we have drawn up the document that collects the interventions to be performed for the establishment in the value of the Roman bridge and also the care of its perimeter. The first of these will be to start it already – as I said – immediately with the cleaning work, and the rest of the actions will be collected in fifteen performances, fifteen actions that will come defined in a constructive project that we will immediately begin to draft and will specify the interventions that should be carried out for their placement in value. We're talking about a set of performances, which we're going to perform in two phases, which aim at the aesthetic recovery of the Roman bridge, the improvement of its contour so that it takes a greater protagonist of the bridge, and of course we will also work for its promotion and for a better knowledge of this good, which has a high heritage value. Some of the actions that the construction project will collect will be the restoration of the armchair, also the repair of the footwear, the removal and transfer of the supply tub that currently hangs from the bridge, also a new lighting and the removal of those elements that do not match the contour, and will also act in the vicinity of the monument in order to realize a new pavement and a new conditioning of the street between the Roman bridge and the chapel of the Remedies and also the construction of a pedestrian path. In short, we are faced with actions of great relevance to its value in one of the main symbols of Galicia in the city of Burgas, a set of actions in which it will be allocated about a million euros, as I say, we will start immediately with the first works that begin in April and drafting the constructive project of the rest of the actions. We will, of course, work to bid this year for the first stage of the proceedings, actions that will soon contribute to the stand in the value of the Roman bridge. Your Honor, I certainly believe it is a demonstration of the commitment of the Galician Union to the city of Ourense, a further proof of the Union's bet on improving the quality of life of citizens, of course actions that will result in the economic and social development of this city of Ourense. Nothing else and thank you very much. [[Applause]] Question by Mr Abel Fermín Losada Álvarez and two other Members of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the possible effects of the cuts announced by the company Pemex on the Italian production fabric
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u367	You have the word, Mr. Losada, to ask your question.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u368	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen. [[Murmurs.]] Mr. Counsellor, after listening... Mrs. Romero, I see it as absolutely glorious, it must be by the works of the...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u369	Mr. Losada, ask your question.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u370	...the Roman bridge of your city. The Socialists, after hearing the interpellation he answered this morning, want to make clear two questions – let us say – methodological. First, the socialists do not question at all the talents of the workers and companies in Vigo and Ferrol; this is the first. And the second is that the socialists are absolutely delighted that the shipyards in Galicia are building as many ships as possible. It's just to make it clear and so I'm avoiding a couple of paragraphs that you have there in the answer. Look, there's another general issue: geopolitics and propaganda fall short, Counselor. Propaganda began on May 24, 2012; you were economic advisor to the President of the Union; you were still not an economic advisor to Economics and Industry; you certainly recall the suspension of the programming of Galician Television and live prime time, from Rajoy Palace, 14 trailers were to be made, seven of them completely on the Greek shipyards and seven others in collaboration with Mexican shipyards and 250 million euros, etc., etc. The socialists asked for that information, he didn't give us up. Sunday, May 27, 2012 Counsellor Javier Guerra said textually – I also have the hemerotheque, because it is convenient to bring it – Pemex's purchasing capacity has no limits. I also understand that the economic environment changes – I am fully aware – but I think some explanation probably has to be given. In August 2012, two months before the autonomous elections, Pemex would move from Galicia 2.5 million tons of gasoline and build a terminal of 57 million euros. September 19, 2012, one month before the autonomous elections, Pemex's contract signature will be signed with Barriers in Navantia for the construction of two fleets. "If Pemex does not take up his commitments with Galicia, the answer will be forceful and we will give explanations." That's exactly what we asked for. In November 2013 Pemex bought 51% of the Barreras shipyard, 5.1 million euros. The truth is, given the level of budget execution of the Igape, I think I could have bought it perfectly from the Galician Institute for Economic Promotion, because it leaves out running approximately 60 million euros each year; therefore, I understand that 5.1 is 8.4%. We said that Pemex wanted to buy technology, by the way, exactly what's going on, because Mexican shipyards are trying to build the smaller fleets of the Mexican oil company. And, yes, on May 22, 2014, three days before the European elections, they cut sheet, started cutting sheet in Ferrol.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u371	Thank you, Mr. Losada, thank you very much. Mr. Francisco Conde López has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u372	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Losada, the first thanks to you for the first time to recognize the importance of the naval sector, the importance of the workload on the shipyards, and above all that you recognise in your question, in your own question, the importance and role of Pemex in the recovery of the Greek naval sector. The truth is that it took you almost three years and still today, Mr. Losada, your group did not apologize for having permanently denied and torpedo all efforts of this government to actually work with Pemex and facilitate the recovery of the sector. Today Pemex is building two fleets in Galicia and already occupying about 1,000 workers in the Vigo and Ferrol rivers. I believe that today in the reply you have a great opportunity, Mr Losada, to apologize, on behalf of your parliamentary group. [[Applause]] Mr. Losada, in his words, the reasons for all this kind of presentation are clear: to try to sow new doubts about Pemex to try to erode this government. Mr. Losada, on his day they doubted Pemex's contacts, on his day the Socialist Group has doubted Pemex's contracts, and today they want to doubt its compliance. Well, Mr. Losada, unfortunately I have to tell you, with all constancy, that in Galicia Pemex is building two fleets, one in Barreiras and another in Navantia, and that the German shipyards Armón and Freire are participating in the design, supply and construction of the renewal of Pemex's minor fleet. With all constancy and cordiality I can transfer it to him. In any case, Your Honor, as I say to you, I thank you for your concern for the naval sector, and, as you know, this government is fully committed to the German naval sector. We are working – and so we have moved it – on financing, internationalisation and innovation in the Welsh naval sector; we will continue to work, we will continue to work supporting the whole sector, the public yards and the private yards, with financial aid. As you know, in the wake of innovation, the naval sector is a strategic sector, and, as this government has already moved, the CIS Galicia will be the focal point for boosting innovation in the Welsh naval sector and we will also logically strengthen the position of the sector in the international field. Your Honor, today the reality of the naval is very different from what we inherit, today the reality of the Welsh naval sector is in the ranks. Thank you very much, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u373	Thank you, thank you, Counselor. Mr. Losada Álvarez's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u374	Madam President, thank you very much. Counsellor, look, we didn't sow doubts, we asked for information by article 9, to which we have the right as a parliamentary group, and we were not provided; the doubts seemed to you by hiding that information. Look, February 17, 2015 Pemex announces a reduction in its budget of 11%, 3.700 million euros, and formally says in a press release that will renegotiate all supply contracts of goods and services. You didn't say anything. And that's what we want to talk about, Mr. Counsellor, because Mr. Feijóo ended up talking about Touriño, talking about Zapatero, talking about Almunia, talking about tax lease, and now about what he's talking about, in the last statement on this subject, what Mr. Feijóo said – and, of course, you seem that we also, say, supported – is that business is about looking for jobs. Hey, we know that. So, what are they for? Because if it's business matters, budgets go down, executions are really embarrassing, Counsellor, and you know, you can come here and -- I don't know -- tell us some other story, but you know it perfectly well. So, can you explain to me what they're exactly for? They are for advertising and propaganda, because you see, the Minister of Industry, Energy and Tourism, on February 2, 2014, said: "Pemex will bring an important workload in the coming years." Hey, everybody knew that the financial situation of Pemex was very bad, the price of oil wasn't as low as it is now but it was already coming down, all the big oil companies in the world were reducing their demands, and unfortunately Mr. Soria in this case, and Mr. Feijóo and you, were still feeding a real propagandistic bubble, which in the end was a real insult to that 30% of people in Ferrol's unemployment and that 25% in Vigo...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u375	Mr. Losada, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u376	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u377	Thank you. The Economic and Industry Councillor has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u378	To deny this Government's involvement in the recovery of the naval sector is simply to live in a political illusion, which is in the illusion in which the Socialist Party of Galicia lives. Mr. Losada, the Pemex fleets are building in Barreras and Pemex. Trying to question that Pemex is assuming its commitments and is developing its commitments because logically it is simply missing reality, and the reality is that the recovery of the naval sector, after an inheritance in which you – the bipartite – have left zero contracts – in Navantia and with a situation in the really decadent naval sector, and that the Socialist Party, I am sure that it could certainly give us some concrete explanation, but through its former secretary general, as you know, Mr. Almunia, who processed a whole tax file read that stopped the Welsh and Spanish naval sector, because logically it would be good to explain. I'm sorry you hadn't used your replica shift to transfer your apologies to this government. In any case, you'll have a later chance. [[Murmurs.]] In any case, the naval sector continues to recover, the naval sector has committed 1,4 billion euros in different contracts, it knows perfectly well that 600 million are in Navantia and another 800 million in private shipyards, and also knows that shipyards continue to work to win contracts and that this government continues to be involved in collaborating with the naval sector in all that allows it to achieve greater workload. And that dynamism is actually showing the shipyards. He knows perfectly well about the construction of the Peruvian Navy's oceanographic construction or the adjudication of the school ship to the Indonesian Navy by Freire, and he also knows perfectly about the fire-fighting ship for Iraq signed by Cardama. Therefore, a clear trend of recovery of the naval sector, both in the Ferrol River and in the Vigo River. We keep working. The German ship, in fact, has before it the opportunity to work in different markets. The impact of the oil industry is evident in the naval sector. There are other opportunities: in maritime transport, in the fishing industry, in the diversification of the naval sector itself through participation in the construction of offshore wind, with this contract for example that Navantia signed with Iberdrola and that is also developing, and therefore the naval sector continues on the path to recovery. This government continues to be involved in the recovery of the shipbuilding sector, and we will certainly continue to work with the sector so that workers can have a consolidated future in the German shipbuilding sector. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u379	Thank you, Counselor. Question from Da María do Carme Adán Villamarín, G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the measures to be taken by the German Government in the face of the new situation of the Mexican oil tanker Pemex
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u380	Since the honourable Member is not present, it is understood, in accordance with Article 75.1, that she refuses to speak and therefore the question falls. Question from Da Yolanda Díaz Pérez and Eva Solla Fernández, from G.P. of the Galga de Left alternative, on the economic support measures and additional material which will bring the Government of Greece to provide, through a multi-annual plan, the programmes that are developing the Aspaneps association
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u381	You have the word, Mrs. Solla, to ask your question.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u382	Thank you, President. We have already discussed in committee the situation of the Aspaneps de Ferrol association. My group has shifted since attention to dependence, functional and cognitive diversity, health care and social services should be ensured through public services. The absence of many services and care, which should be a right, led, as their lords already know, in many cases, many years ago, to which families were organized to defend the rights of all these people and to provide services that did not provide administrations. Aspaneps is one of those non-profit organizations that, with a lot of work from families and professionals, has been going ahead over these years. [[Association of Children with Psychosocial Problems]] Today they have been working for twenty-four years, attending intervention programs with families, children and children with problems and even awareness programs in the face of functional and cognitive diversity. This program, especially family intervention, acts in multiproblematic families, with which, in addition to children, care for family units in a city as punished as Ferrol is. The importance is very high in child-child care, especially regarding intervention related to mental health, since they fortunately prevent some problems from going further, avoiding income and working on drug addiction prevention. This group has already denounced the situation in committee, in which this collective is seeking to carry out its activity since, for example, the need for improvements in the units in which they work – we have taken some initiative on the place where they are developing their activity, we defend it in 2013 – and also because the budget cuts. On the one hand, the Town Hall has been cutting resources since 2009, cuttings that are also added to by the Galician Board, which lead to the association having to support a decrease of up to 25% of its budget. You'll understand that with these cuts you can't carry out your activities in the conditions where you'd like them; a cut so high that, in order to maintain your activity two years ago, this cut has already allowed a temporary and partial ERE to prevent the redundancies of staff and the assumption by professionals of a 25% cut in salary. Recently the municipal plenary approved, at the instance of the Municipal Group of the United Left, an initiative to recover the municipal budget, leading it to the 2009 values, and it is now up to asking the Galician Board: what will it do for its part and what economic support measures and additional material will bring the Government of Greece to provide that work through a multi-year plan for the programs that it is currently developing aspaneps?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u383	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. Answer from the Health Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u384	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, ladies. You are right, Your Honor, that the Association of Children's Parents with Psychosocial Problems has been continuously developing its work on child-child mental health care in the population of Ferrol and its area of reference since 1991. [[Aspaneps]] This is also a unique case in the organization of the provision of the Galego Health Service, since it is the only area where child-child mental health care is not directly provided by the assistance resources of the Galego Health Service. Still, we value very positively, in view of the quality and assistance results, the work carried out by Aspaneps. As you know, and as you have just said, Aspaneps is a non-profit entity, which, in addition to carrying out activities in the agreement with the Galician Health Service, performs other activities, such as a social and integration program in the community through an occupational center located in Fene, with a contract signed with the Labour and Welfare Council, or also the program "Put in My Place." Even so, it develops a program of socio-educational care for the family, the child and the child with specific needs and their families, which has so much public funding, other entities, not only of the Galician Union, but also income from the private and private point of view. Within what is the agreement with the Galego Health Service, it develops direct assistance activities, which include first consultations, diagnostic assessment, psychotherapy, review and follow-up, rehabilitation and reintegration, indirect assistance – which includes prevention through health programs carried out jointly with the Galego Health Service and with the Health Council and with often specific funding –, support and advice to institutions related to the minor, educational institutions, and information and derivation to the care network in those cases that require it. We can indicate that in 2013 the activity performed was 388 welcoming interviews, 349 first consultations, 75 returns, which are those patients who remain uninterruptedly a minimum of two years without any contact with the therapist, and 3,694 consultations. To this end, the Health Council maintains – and has maintained throughout all these years – a partnership agreement, which is maintained also in this year 2015, and which is already signed. Last year we signed it in June, while now this year we were able to sign it in this first quarter. We are aware that over the years we have requested an effort from Aspaneps, just as we have asked all our dependent organisms, because it would not be reasonable that the same effort that we ask our professionals does not also ask a private entity, that in turn pay their employees' salaries with these public funds.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u385	Thank you, thank you, Counselor. Replica. Mrs. Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u386	What we asked him was what effort he was going to make in Galicia. See you won't make any effort. I told you in the intervention that it's the professionals who are making the effort you're not doing, that you've already applied an ERE, that you've already applied a 25% cut of your salary, that they've been in addition to all these years with the uncertainty that it's supposed to sign an agreement annually, so they can't ensure from year to year if they're going to be able to keep the programs they're running. You have just reported here the importance of the work that association does, with which it is unreasonable that you continue to apply the cuts year after year to an association that does such an important work. In 2009, 187,000 euros of public budget of the Council for this association, today it is only 141,169 euros, Madam Counsellor. This year you apply another 2% cut to an association budget that is already working under the budget limit that you can assume to maintain those intervention programs in a society like ferrola, which is also punished by your own policies. Their policies, those of the Galician Union, condemn the hunger of Ferrol, the destruction of his industry, the death of the naval, and punish them with social services as well. We have just discussed here how the situation of Caranza's residence is. Are we also going to punish by reducing child-child mental care services to this city, which is in this situation, thanks also to its policies? Explain here too – you should clarify – if you're investing in the Ferrol area as well as in other health areas as regards child-child mental health; it's not going to be that, as this association is responsible for, it turns out that with the investment you're taking advantage of to practice cuts that don't do in other areas. You should clarify here what's the problem they have with Ferrol and why you perpetuate a few cuts that all they do is feed on the weakest people.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u387	Thank you, thank you, Mrs. Solla. Shut up. Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u388	Thank you, Mr. President. Yes, it is true that in 2015 the amount set out in the Aspaneps agreement is 141,169 euros, which we believe should allow proper attention to the population of reference. As I say, we signed this agreement this first quarter, and even the advance of this subsidy has risen from 10 to 25%, which means an advance of 1.5 million euros, a fact we understand that it can be very beneficial for the partnership itself, as it will allow you greater flexibility in your treasury. The aim, given the current economic situation, is to facilitate the liquidity needed as soon as possible so that they can carry out their work in the best possible conditions. We also committed ourselves to the association trying to provide its professionals with a better ease of work with access to IANUS, to electronic clinical history, and as a first step they were our computer services, they went to their facilities to audit their network and perform the technical assessments needed to assess the possibilities to facilitate such access. This is a commitment from the Council of Health and the Galego Health Service of the Galician Board of nearly 6 million euros this year 2015 for non-profit associations for the development of health care to patients with hearing and mental health disorders infant and youth. I would like to remind you, Your Honor, that the biggest cut that Aspaneps has suffered all those years was from 2009 over 2008, which has reduced its contribution by 10%. It's true that in these years we saw them asking for an effort, an effort like the rest of the Council and the Galego Health Service, an effort that seemed unreasonable that they didn't have these professionals when they were having all the professionals in the Galego Health Service. And – I repeat – I believe that these two actions, signing the agreement as soon as possible in the first quarter and raising the contribution, the advance, from 10 to 25%, will allow the association to have more cash availability. And you have to arrive, Your Honor, you have to arrive, to continue paying the best attention you pay... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u389	Quiet, ladies.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u390	...the children of Ferrol. [[Murmurs.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u391	Thank you, Counselor. Question by Mr José Manuel Beiras Torrado and six other Members of the G.P. of the Alternative Galga de Left, on the clearance of responsibilities in relation to the process of sale of Novagalicia Banco
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u392	Mr. Fajardo Recoso has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u393	Well, good afternoon to all and to all, too to the counsellor. You should first clarify what was that act that prevented you from answering this question as the first part of this afternoon's agenda. And the question has to do with a news that shook the Greeks in recent times, a news that made it clear that what they called crisis was not a crisis, it was a first-order scam, which demonstrated that we are in a new model of late capitalism, of looting capitalism, which basically consists of that everyone's money being wasted to safeguard the interests of the four of us. That's why the Abanca sales process means that once we spend 9,000 million euros public we give it to a company for just 1 billion and it turns out that in the first year this company earns 1,157 million profits, of which 556 are tax benefits. This for us has only one name: it's a scam, it's a robbery. And it is therefore an absolutely deplorable element that you will have to explain to the Government how it is done, and you will also have to debug the responsibilities of those who make a decision, first, to malsell this Welsh box, but also to hurry up on this bad sale. And we say it because for us there are some issues that are frankly deplorable. Imagine that to all those thousands of Greeks who don't have a house in the Government of Wales with public money, a house in ruins is deflated, furnished and then sold to them for 10% of what it costs, and that these in the first year could, of that 10% they paid, have a tax exemption much higher than their cost. That would be a social benefit. It turns out that with the neighbors, with the people who need a house, you can't have these attentions, but with the banks, with banks besides foreign capital – like in this case, Venezuela – they do have these attentions; they're hailed from the order of 11 billion euros all of them, which means a real scam. See if it's a scam, let's make comparisons. 11,000 million public euros that had served only for the budget of the Labour and Welfare Council in Galicia until 2030, with those 11 billion euros that were given to a private bank that is now doing business. But that's not all. Imagine what you could do in Galicia with these 556 million euros that were given to you in tax benefits so that your profits are now multimillionaires and that only last year your directors in Galicia paid 6 million euros. With these 556 million euros you could meet in Galicia at the risk 106,382 people. Do you know how many we've been attending this year? Only 10,000 people. So we're talking about a new scam. Only if you pay social attention to the banks and let our neighbours die when we're wasting our public money in generating benefits for a private bank that doesn't even have a residence in Galicia, but in Venezuela.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u394	Thank you, Mr. Fajardo. Answer from the Consecutor of Fairy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u395	Thank you, Mr. President. Today morning the president answered a similar question posed by the Galician Nationalist Block. As the president first commented, our purpose since 2009 was to have a stable, efficient and connected entity with Galicia, both at the credit level and at the social level. The winning offer on the FROB auction would be better if there was a greater commitment to the families and the companies of Greece, a greater commitment to social work, the maintenance of central services in Galicia and a better guarantee of job maintenance. If we were at the time of sale, at the end of 2013, the sale was a public, open and transparent procedure. The sale was the first to allow public funds to be recovered. The winning offer represented twice the second best; and even if we go through the hemerothecs, we will see that even if we came to say in qualified economic forums that the paid price was excessive. The sale, therefore, was good for Galicia, because it did what we wanted and got the best possible price in the circumstances proper at the end of 2013. As we also believe that it has been good for Galicia this first year since the sale. We think it's good to have a credit institution in Galicia that, for example, is the loaner of 3 out of 10 euros that lends itself to Galicia; that he has an understanding of the reality of the Galician business fabric and of the families, which makes it, therefore, closer to the demand of his customers, which generates a value added directly but also indirectly by the companies that provide him with different services. That an entity based in Galicia with a high market share has a benefit in its banking activity looks positive to us, because positive is that even more – as it seems – that result will be intended to strengthen its own resources, i.e. to improve its solvency, because being more solvency will allow it to generate more credit for the companies and the families of Greece, while consolidating this new project. No more.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u396	Thank you, Counselor. Replica. Mr. Fajardo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u397	Look, Counselor, I had made it clear they wouldn't answer me. They won't answer, among other things, because they haven't done it to the more than six requests we've made to them in writing since June 2013 to deliver all the documentation to the Committee on Boxes on those reports that it was clear that they could say it wasn't the time of their merger, or they didn't put the documents that proved that that this rush for sale meant a mistake for Galicia. How can you suggest that this was the right time? What would happen if that box were public and, therefore, the 500 million euros of benefit, removed from tax exemptions, were already directly from the Public Service? Well, we would have 500 million euros that could be used for our public services, for our attention to whoever needs it most. But not now, now they're in the pockets of an entity that, by the way, is not Galician, is an entity that is Venezuelan. And you should know, like me, that Venezuelan entity now has its biggest business in the Welsh box, because it's even more important than any of the other businesses it had in Venezuela. That's for us to meet the goal of the People's Party. You told me very well: they have fulfilled their goal, which is to plunder the public money, loot the public bank and hand it over to those you defend, which is none other than financial capital and in this case international financial capital. How could you possibly have the chance to say that it's a good sale and that allows us to enter an important amount of money? Of the 9,000 million euros that cost their sanitation we are not going to enter anything, we have only charged 400 million of that sale, and it turns out that in the first year of practice the bank is able to enter twice as much of what it paid us for that sale. If that's a good operation for you, what you have to do right away is stop being a counselor, even though it's only been a month. Because if you defend that operation, you can't continue to think that it's going to be part of a government that's mean what it must be all and that it's going to be a public bank that activates our economy, which is so much needed. Do you know what's the worst problem in the Greek economy right now? Access to credit for pemes, self-employed and families.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u398	Thank you, Mr. Fajardo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u399	And that's not solved with this bad sale.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u400	Thank you, Mr. Fajardo. Time's up. Shut up. Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u401	After all the success since 2009 with the financial institutions – I insist – I remind you that our position has always been to maintain an entity based in Galicia and linked to Galicia. By the way, other autonomous communities cannot say the same thing. And now that we maintain that entity, which has undoubtedly benefits, is good news, as is also good news that these benefits are dedicated to consolidating its solvency, as well as that the activity as a bank enables it to maintain employment in Galicia, as well as being able to provide solutions to the staff framework by convincing European institutions for the paralysis of the ERE that was under way, as well as maintaining a greater number of offices in Galicia, avoiding financial exclusion that put the presence of entities in small councils at risk, as well as achieving a plan for financing the social work of more than 150 million euros in thirty years, as well – and above all – that the activity allows it to bring credit to businesses and to the Galician families. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] For all this, it's good news. Today morning the president himself, in response to a question posed by his own group, when analyzing the GDP data, confirmed that certain messages do not correspond to all the figures, for example, when analyzing GDP developments in 2014. In certain messages, when we analyze the components of domestic demand, we realize how public final consumption of administrations had a markedly higher growth and the 0,6% contribution compared to 1% in Spain. The same is true of this case. [[Murmurs.]] When we analyze the components of the offer, it turns out that in the services sector the subsector of financial activities in Galicia with respect to Spain is what presents a greater differential in 2014. Look at the figures and you'll check how in Galicia there is a positive positioning and the 0.3 contribution to a decline in Spain of 5, something. Therefore, this message that you just entered right now is totally wrong. And, in addition, that finding through the supply components in the various subsectors of the services sector – in particular financial activities – has what means an advance in economic terms, because it means that companies are starting to get better funding, it means that families start to have better funding, and that means better and more employment. So, I want to corroborate that last appreciation that you have made and maintain – as I said before, of what we feel very proud – the posture in these difficult six years to obtain an entity in Galicia that provides services within the set of financial institutions for a better...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u402	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u403	...economic growth and employment.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u404	Thank you, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u405	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-03-11-DSPG101.u406	Thank you, Counselor. Solved the agenda items, aborting session.
