ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u1	Good morning. Please take your seats. The session is open. The agenda is published in the Official Gazette of the Parliament of Galicia, so it is not read. She has justified her inattentiveness to Mrs Carmen Iglesias of the Joint Group. So, ladies and gentlemen, we are on the agenda with point one, which is that of questions for the oral answer of the President of the Council of Galicia. Ask Mr. President of the Galician Council of D. Francisco Jesus Jorquera Caselas, of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the action planned by the Galician Union regarding the price that the Greek owners are charging for milk, in relation to the rest of the state
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u2	You have the word, to ask your question, Mr. Jorquera Caselas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u3	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Feijóo, during the last control session, we provided the data, which they speak for themselves, of the dramatic situation in the dairy sector. In the past year, they closed in Spain 528 farms; 383 in Galicia. More than 72% of the farms that have been closed are Welsh, Mr. Feijóo. According to the Spanish Agricultural Guarantee Fund, Galicia is the territory of the State where less is paid for milk. Our livestock pay less than 28 cents per litre: 3 cents less than in Spain, 6 cents less than in Andalusia. Mr. Feijóo, the Madrid agreement was a massive deception to our owners. That agreement so praised for you, it only served to raise the price in the middle of a penny. It's still paying for milk under production costs, and while there's industry still failing to meet contracts, lowering prices or even leaving milk uncollected, inflate the market with imported milk. Spain is the sum of European Union surpluses. For the past year, imports increased by 7%; 11% compared to 2013. In 2015, the total volume of the imported raw material is equivalent to the total production of the whole of the Greek holdings. As I have already told you, Mr Feijóo, it is false that in the Spanish state there is a problem of oversupply; it produces 6,700,000 tons, and it consumes 9 million. What there is is a design to expel our owners from the market; a strategy to push the German producer sector towards the marginal sectors without just added value. First, with a distribution of total and absolutely discriminatory quotas, far below our domestic demand, to deliver our market to the outside producers. And after the producers out there sized to do with our market, after our owners had to pay off to buy quota, now there's a liberalisation applied to the brave without you doing anything to prepare the sector for this new stage. And above all, instead of exercising his powers, Mr. Feijó, instead of acting as president of the country, continues to give his back to the demands of our owners. That's why I ask you, Mr. Feijóo, are you going to go on doing nothing while the yellow thugs charge for milk the lowest prices in the whole state? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u4	Thank you very much, Mr. Jorquera. The President of the Board has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u5	Madam President. Your Honor, you were actually asking me about the price situation in the Greek milk sector in September. In that month, as you will recall, a transcendental agreement was signed in my opinion, and also in the opinion of the sector, since for the first time the big industry, the commercial areas and the producers were seated. What happened from that one to today? First of all, as you know, that agreement had been in force for a month and the first measures had to be taken from the month of November, i.e. a few weeks ago. The first thing that happened, Your Honor, is that the average price rose in Galicia 1.10 cents; the average price is 27.60 cents per liter. The second, Your Honor, is that the commitments of the agreement are being implemented. First, the publication of the Royal decree of price transfers; and second, the new type-approved contract. In relation to the Royal Price Assignment Decree, the Galician Board has submitted the corresponding allegations; we are in the period of public information. Let the communities have access to price information so that they can take their opinion, and secondly, to amend claims to the regulations on mandatory declarations of the first buyers. Therefore, this instrument, Your Honor, is being complied with in accordance with the covenant. Secondly, I refer to the new type-approved contract. As you know, industry and producers have just signed a standard contract that realises transparency, stability and legal certainty, and above all, that in Galicia we are very interested in, which unites quality criteria of milk, so that fat and protein are one of the indicators from the point of view of pricing. In relation to the third matter, what we've done in the last few weeks was to pay. Galicia is the first autonomous community to pay for the common agricultural policy together with the aid coupled together, and in Galicia the average milk producers, the farmers, by production is between EUR 13,000 and EUR 15,000 that have entered on average in the last few weeks. Furthermore, the honourable Member, of the rest of the central government and the European Union's aid, Galicia has come to over 60% of these aid, so at the end of this year we have injected 120 million euros to the gainful producers. Your Honor, if you tell me if we're satisfied with the price of milk, the answer is no. Now, you will remember that, when we assume the Government, the price of milk with the Bipartite was significantly below what you are now. Then I don't know if you agreed. We disagreed when you ruled, and the price of milk last year began to fall to 25 cents, not now. But first of all, the average price is today more than 1 cent higher than the month of July.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u6	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u7	Secondly, 73% of the producers, when the agreement began, were charged above 25 cents, and today they are more than 80%. And finally, Your Honor, I don't think it's reasonable to say, that in Galicia we're producing less milk, because in Galicia we're producing 15% more milk in recent years than in previous years. So, Your Honor, you didn't have completely black in the sector because this sector is going to be settled and this sector is going to be the government's priority. Thank you very much, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u8	Thank you very much. Mr. Jorquera Caselas' reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u9	Look, Mr. Feijóo, you'd rather talk about 2008 and I'd rather talk about 2015. They want fair prices, they don't want help. The data I have provided is current data, after the signature of the agreement. You referred to the new contract, and the new contract does not solve any of the problems that the sector has. It does not set a standard type of milk, allowing industry to continue to set arbitrary criteria when setting quality parameters to lower prices. There is no binding mediation system. It continues to leave the producers without real negotiating capacity, which remains at the expense of the conditions imposed by the industry. All we ask of you, Mr. Feijóo, is that you govern, that you exercise your powers. Look, I'll tell you what things I could do. First, cut down on the concentration in the distribution sector. The large surfaces are the way to the massive introduction of foreign milk, and to ruin prices using milk as a claim product. Ask the owners why they took the tractors to Alcampo and Carrefour. Secondly, he exercises his powers in the field of consumption. It's illegal to sell milk under production costs. It inspects, imposes exemplifying sanctions and requires that the origin of the milk be clearly identified. Faced with their inaction, they have to be the gainful with their tractors who are taking out commitments from the distribution. Thirdly, it conditions any kind of public aid to the industry to pay a fair price for milk in its origin and, of course, to become milk in the country. And fourthly, it designs a strategy for the future for the sector, Mr Feijóo, encouraging the mobilization of land to supply our land base and to compete in costs; favoring the transformation of the country's raw material into high value added products; promoting the consumption of Greek milk, processed products from Greek, and the trade in proximity. And above all, Mr. Feijó, move. Create a galley table to follow up the agreements so that they really ensure sustainable prices and guarantee mechanisms. It assumes that we are facing a country problem, because the dairy sector is the future of our rural environment. So while he's president of Galicia, he exercises as such. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u10	Thank you very much, Mr. Jorquera. Replica by the President of the Union.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u11	Thank you very much, Madam President. Your Honor, you say the type contract doesn't work. In 2008, allow me, Your Honor, that if we don't know the Greek dairy sector, we have to realize the extent and content of their situation. In 2008, the contract approved by you was considered a historic step. Now, on the other hand, it turns out that the problem is only German. Hurry up. "He concluded the contract approved as a response to the problems of the sector, which are general and not only of the Galicians." Suárez Canal, BNG advisor to the Bipartite. Your Honor, you know as well as I do that the situation in the non-German dairy sector, not even Spanish, but European, is overproduction. In the United States, one of the leading consumers and producers is milking, and in several European countries it is... remember the tractors circling Paris a few weeks ago? Your Honor, what is happening in Europe is that we have similar prices, for example, those of Galicia. Allow me to tell you the prices of Europe, average standard price: Germany, 27.9; Ireland, 27.4; Netherlands, 26.9 and Poland, 26.8; Galicia, average standard price, 28.4. Your Honor, let's not confuse the good people, who are trying to get ahead every month, just with proclamations. Look, Your Honor, in August 2007, when you were ruling, the price of milk was 8 cents below what you are now. That's right. Now the oil prices are much lower than they were a few months ago, the raw material is fundamental to exploit and produce milk. Look, Your Honor, when you say we don't work, do you remember Clessa? In 2012, we're looking for a solution for Clessa; today there are 9 cooperatives. They used to produce 200,000 kilos a month, and now 2 million kilos a month. Lasurgal, is it Lasurgal? We've just been looking for another proposal for Lasurgal, Lugo cooperatives, to multiply by four its production. We have EUR 40 million at the disposal of any business or cooperative initiative in the dairy sector to push it. Your Honor, why are milk prices elsewhere in Spain higher than Galicia? You know exactly why. First, for structural reasons. Logistics. If we produce 40% of Spain's milk, we have to get it out and take it to other fundamental points of consumption; there are other autonomous communities that produce much less milk than they consume. And secondly, Your Honor, let's make it clear to you and me that we care about the country. You know, as long as we don't get a concentration of producers and a concentration of cooperatives, we're in lower conditions. 70% of Asturian milk is a single cooperative, and 100% of Andalusian milk production is a single producer organization. Look, Your Honor, we did our job. Of course we open files to supermarkets and large surfaces. I'm surprised you don't know! Over the past few weeks, we've opened files. Probably, some of the reasons what's happening now with the large surfaces is because before the Galician Union opened files in the last few weeks to the large surfaces.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u12	It's over, president.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u13	But Your Honor, I don't think you should go on with the BNG going against everything, I don't think it would work out for you. I wish we could agree in the defense of this sector. Therefore, Your Honor, if we want the price of milk in Galicia to be respected, use the brand, Galego 100%, Here the prices of milk are respected in Galicia. [[Applause]] Let's use this tag, and you'll see how the milk prices go up. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u14	Thank you very much. Ask Mr. President of the Galician Board of Da Yolanda Díaz Pérez, G.P. of the Galga de Left Alternative, on the effects of the social policy of the Government of Greece for citizenship
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u15	You have the floor, to ask your question, Mrs. Yolanda Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u16	Thank you, President. Good morning. Mr. President, the question would be: What are you going to do with this country? This country in destruction, this country with tractors in the streets, this country with milk producers that, in fact, – something unheard of – sell below its price and value. This country with our seafaring sailors. And not only those in the siege, Mr. Feijóo, but also, for example, the maricadores and maricadores of our rivers: the creek of Noia, the creek of Burgo... This country where in a strategic sector like the naval sector, Mr. Feijóo, we live in a permanent fraud; we have no say, we have no work, we don't make ships. We have Iberdrola, they occupy our facilities with Iberdrola, but – we insist – we don't make ships. This country where we have thousands of workers standing. The workers at risk from Abengoa, the workers and workers from Extel, who will leave tomorrow, on Christmas Day, to the streets of Coruña defending their rights in that enterprise privatized by you. Tragsa's workers, too, Mr Feijóo. Do you know there's an ERE in Tragsa that will seriously affect this country? The civil service workers, Mr. Feijóo; more than 10,000 workers you've thrown into the street. Those same workers who continue to lose purchasing power, as we spoke yesterday in this Chamber. Also the country of the loss of self-employed and self-employed. I don't know if you know the latest IGE data, descendants. They're public, Madam, 12,000 fewer. Look at the survey: 12,000 self-employed and less self-employed. The country with the lowest wages in the state. Also in the recent survey, the cost of work in Galicia falls by 0.4%, on a descending path. The country, Mr. Feijóo, of the lowest pensions in the state, above only of Extremadura, Mr. Feijóo. This is the country, the royal Galicia, Mr. Feijóo. You're destroying the people of this country. And the question is, Mr. Feijóo, what are you going to do to change this reality? Yesterday the councilman of Fairy, denying Mr. Conde, said they were going to try with this budget to create 18,000 jobs. Mr. Conde told us in his industry competition that he was going to create 50,000. They must clarify between 50,000 and 18,000 of the councillor of Fairy. However, Mr. Feijóo, even if these posts were created, they would be only 10% of their policies...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u17	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u18	...they're destroyed. Mr. Feijóo, what are you going to do with Galicia?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u19	The President of the Board has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u20	Your Honor, with Galicia, what we're going to do is give it stability, give it a government and not lie to the Greeks. The three fundamental questions of what we're going to do with Galicia. [[Applause]] You tell me what we're going to do with the different sectors, even though the question is raised about social policies. I see, ladies and gentlemen, that now, since his party's first proposal after the election was to convene self-determination referendums in the autonomous communities, he is no longer interested in social policies. We do, we're interested in people. Calling self-determination referendums in the autonomous communities is up to you. By the way, I'd like your high-ranking boss to come here and explain to the Greeks that his first priority is to convene a self-determination referendum in Galicia. I guess you won't dare. But since you now turn out to be part of a coalition of parties that your first proposal is the community self-determination referendum, to destroy the country and, consequently, to destroy people's unity, it's obvious that people are not interested in you at all. [[Applause]] Look, Your Honor, about... how we care about people, people who are going through it wrong, what we've done, for example, these last few weeks have been three decisions. First, sit down with all the electric companies and compromise that there are no cuts of light from Galicia; and that before there is a cut of light by default it is notified to the Council of Galicia. Secondly, that the Galician Union is responsible for two receipts in the light field of the Galician families who have no facilities for payment. Secondly, what we have done – and we are going to approve it now at the Council – was to establish a social rent bonus, also for families with difficulties, of EUR 150 per month so they can keep their rents in time. Third, as you know, for a long time, from January 1st, offering a welcome card to all children born in Galicia. Why? Because we, far from destroying the country, what we want is to preserve the country, keep the country and make it easier for this country to move on. [[Applause]] And what we're going to do today, too, when we get out of the House, is re-appropriate an extraordinary salary for the lowest incomes, for those pensioners who earn a non-contributory pension -- more than 42,000 pensioners. We have become one more year, despite the recession, in the Autonomous Community which pays the most for non-contributory pensions and in the Autonomous Community which makes an extra payment in non-contributory pensions. Above, Your Honor, Andalusia and Extremadura, the only three, Andalusia, Extremadura and Galicia, who pay an extra. [[Applause]] I suppose now you, who will have a lot of responsibilities in some places, should pay them something. But look, as you come around here -- I don't know how much time you have left -- just listen, but don't assimilate...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u21	It's over, president.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u22	...the 50,000 jobs, Your Honor, have nothing to do with the 2016 budget. With the 2016 budget you wanted to raise taxes, we lower them. That's why he doesn't know. The 50,000 is Industry Plan 4.0, increasing employment in the industry by 2020. [[Murmurs.]] By the way, Your Honor, I thank the Galician industry for the best year of exports in the history of the Autonomous Community. Thank you very much, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u23	Thank you very much, President. Mrs. Díaz Pérez's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u24	Mr. Feijóo, as it will be the last time I address you... – peace, quiet, quiet – I will not waste my time telling you what I really think is not of you, but of the President of the Council of Galicia, frankly, Mr. Feijóo. [[Murmurs.]] Look, Mr. Feijóo, tell the workers of Alcoa, of the Coruña, why you have broken your promises. Tell the workers in the naval sector why you've broken your promises. Tell the peasants and peasants of Arzua and Melide why you broke your promises. Tell the sailors in this country, and the fishing in this country, why they're defending a law like the law of aquaculture, which will end Galicia. Yes, Counselor. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Yes, Counselor. Defence of multinationals, by the way, foreign. If you want to talk to me, you can talk. You can talk to me if you want. Tell us, Mr Feijóo, why we have the lowest pensions, tell us why the labour costs in Galicia continue to fall. And, Mr. Feijóo, of course, the men and women of En Marea want to decide everything, Mr. Feijóo!, of course! [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u25	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u26	We would also like, if you have the courage to let the Greeks and the Greeks decide, to convene elections, Mr. Feijóo. Call elections and you'll see how the Greeks and the Greeks... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u27	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u28	...they tell you to go, Mr. Feijóo, that you take your bags and that you are full of your policies, Mr. Feijóo. That's what you have to do. Or if not, Mr. Feijóo, he can do just like that of Bertolt Brecht I told him on one occasion: As he cannot with the people of the people, just like you, Mr. Feijóo, he is tempted to dissolve the people. We let the people speak. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u29	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u30	And you, Mr. Feijóo, where you stay in this house, should defend this country. If you can, explain that difference from 50,000 to 18,000. And, Mr. Feijóo, the joke...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u31	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u32	...of social rent is a joke! Have you read the requirements, Mr. Feijóo? Have you read the requirements?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u33	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u34	No one will be able to meet those requirements. The welcome card joke is a coat of hair for this country, Mr. Feijóo, a coat of hair! And the two receipts, Mr. Feijóo, explain to Juan Pueblo, who is out there, and cannot pay the light receipts for his children.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u35	Thank you very much, Mrs. Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u36	Two receipts, Mr. Feijóo. Those are your policies.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u37	The President of the Board has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u38	Your Honor, say he's gone. I hope when he gets to Madrid he doesn't say he's leaving as a result of that he's an emigrant, and that he's going with the suitcase because he had no chance here. Look, Your Honor, if you go away, you and your commitment to Galicia! For a long time I've been listening to what I was going to be, and now it turns out that everyone who told me I was going, it turns out that I'm still in the country, I'm still in Galicia, and I'm still ruling in Galicia, and you'd rather go to other defeats. [[Applause]] O you, Your Honor! You and your commitment to Galicia! Look, Your Honor, the people of Alcoa know very well what we've done, they know perfectly well. And he knows we're going to follow the people of Alcoa. And as you know, Your Honor, you don't have to tell the company committee, both from Coruña and San Cibrao, what we did with Alcoa. Look, Your Honor, with the naval sector what we did was that we had been in Astano for ten years without a worker and now 400, and in January it will be 700, 700, Your Honor! [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u39	Mrs. Díaz, Mrs. Díaz...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u40	Look, Your Honor...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u41	Do the favor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u42	...when you say that you call elections, I remember that when we set up the House, not only didn't want us to rule, that we just won the elections, but that we asked Parliament to dissolve before we carried out our democratic mandate. No wonder, Your Honor, that you are now trying to ask for a dissolution. Your honor – and I tell you with all humility – is the trust you receive from people to serve them, not to feed the sovereignty. And in the same way that arrogant and high-powered people sometimes rise very fast, others also come down at the same speed, very fast. That's why it's not what happens for a while, but what happens for a long time. Look, Your Honor, tell me to tell the rulers of Arzua and Melide how they are. Yes, the gainees voted and it turns out that in Arzua and Melide the People's Party has an absolute majority in the last general elections, Your Honor. It's amazing that you don't listen to Arzua and Melide's glovers. [[Murmurs.]] Look, Your Honor, the Greek elections, as you know, have been convened a long time ago, the result has been 41 seats, most of which we represent the Greeks, and you draw 9. Now it's 7 and it gives me the feeling that if you go, it could be 6. Your Honor, that is to vertebrate and structure an alternative, to vertebrate and structure an alternative! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Applause]] Look, Your Honor, Galicia rules the People's Party because it won. Santiago ruled Podemos, and he just won the People's Party in the city. In Coruña, we could rule, and we just won the People's Party back in town. Ferrol ruled We can, and he just won the People's Party again. Your Honor, be more humble, be more humble. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] If your goal is to win the Socialist Party, there you are! Our goal is to maintain the stability of the country...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u43	It's over, president.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u44	...the stability of our people. Your Honor, I'm staying with Galicia...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u45	Mrs. Díaz...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u46	Where are you going? But arrogance, I don't think it's a key to talking to the rest of your bandmates that form, at the moment, that great coalition that has as its fundamental objective to prevent there from being a government for all. And I don't think that's an objective. That's the destruction of politics and coexistence. Thank you very much, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u47	Thank you. He asked Mr. President of the Galician Council of Mr. José Luis Méndez Romeu of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the evaluation of the Government of Galicia regarding the current situation of Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u48	You have the word, to ask your question, Mr. Méndez Romeo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u49	Mr President, last Sunday's elections gave them victory and responsibility, as a majority minority, to form government. Congratulations on your success, even though it may be a win-win. For the first time in modern history, parliamentary fragmentation will force agreements on various bands and attitudes quite different from those you have taken in Spain and Galicia. Acts that we saw yesterday, in the processing of the budget, that so far did not allow them either to listen or to integrate. Let's get back to people's problems, which is what you said. Mr. Feijóo, allow me – as we are in Christmas time – to translate a very elegant menu, a very elegant Christmas menu, high French cuisine. I have here as a menu, grilled crickets, salted with beetles, cheese of insects, mouse of fruit fly eggs, larvae honey, and insect bread. It's an extremely expensive menu, very elitist and not popular. You're something more prosaic, and you're introducing insects into the school dining rooms by the back door. Yes, yes. [[Protests.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u50	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u51	Letting them show up frequently. I asked him about this a month ago. You answered me with a law, a lot of great figures and a notorious ignorance of the real problem. From that one, Ribeira, Boiro, Banker... more cases and more complaints. Mr. President, there are insects because you've outsourced the services and lowered the price to 3 euros, including staff and industrial benefit. There are insects because you understand public services commercially. He reduces the price in contracts, not in the quality of the service. But even to him they went to tell the Greek catering companies! They're alienating everywhere. For example, the City of Culture, a ship that marks its irrelevant cultural policy. They're outsourcing him not to be taken by a Galician company, not to be taken by a cultural company. They're outsourcing him to be led by a derailment company that's also from Malaga. Is it that mice devour their emblematic work, or does it not matter the quality of the service so they can fire 12 workers, which is exactly what they did in the City of Culture? I could tell you today, at the CHUAC hospital, a chair fracture means 15 days immobilization because there are no people to operate, so hard! as a result of their cuts. And it's happening with other fractures. Today, 23rd Christmas, you can check it out. These real people cases that you said, what valuation do you deserve, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u52	Thank you very much. The President of the Board has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u53	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Méndez Romeo, I thank you for your democratic congratulations following the outcome of last Sunday's polls. Indeed, Your Honor, the People's Party has won the elections with a difference of more than 1,700,000 votes over the Socialist Party. He won the elections with a difference of more than 30 seats over the Socialist Party. And, therefore, the People's Party is the party that most of the Greeks think it should govern Spain. As you will recall, Mr. Felipe González in 1993 also won elections with very little difference in relation to the People's Party, and yet Mr. Felipe González was ruling throughout the legislature. In 1996, Mr Aznar won the elections only with a difference of 300,000 votes on the Socialist Party, with a difference in percentages of just over 1 point, and yet that Spain, and above all those political parties, knew that in the elections rule what he wins, and President Aznar was elected president by Congress and ruled Spain during that legislation. Now the difference is much greater than Felipe González had and Mr. Aznar had, so now we all wonder what will make the party that he has ruled in Spain for 22 years. All candidates, Your Honor, presenting themselves to the elections are presented with an objective: to rule the country. That's why I wouldn't think it would be reasonable that the goal of one of the candidates now is that there is no government in the country. [[Murmurs.]] Because if everyone legitimately presents themselves to rule the country, the logic is that what loses does not prevent the country's governance. But there, Your Honor, we're sure to keep talking in the next few weeks. [[Murmurs.]] Your Honor, when you talk to me about the situation – you read it – how would the current situation in Galicia assess? Do you ask a question to see if we're talking about anything? The situation in Galicia turns out that it starts with a menu that I don't know if it's what socialists eat – so I never took it – from cheese with insects, crickets and I don't know what. Well, come on, Your Honor! And tell me about the school dining room. Look, Your Honor, in the school dining rooms, what we have is to continue to ensure the health of all foods. And of course what we did was to increase by 23% the school breakfast squares. That's what we did. You talk to me about a fracture in a hospital. We'll see the clinical history, if you want to pass it on, to see if that immobilization is the result of the medical decision, which is not susceptible to surgery, or on the contrary, as you say. But I don't think the anecdote of the Socialist Party is part of the evaluation of a year of government. Look, Your Honor, there's a government in Galicia today. Yesterday we approved a budget. In January all the Greeks are going to pay less taxes. In January, at last 99% of the Greeks will stop paying the inheritance tax. That's why, Your Honor, I think it is well worth having a government, to have stability and to have a government that governs.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u54	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u55	You know, Your Honor, that in most autonomous communities of the Socialist Party, most of them, there are no assumptions yet. That's why there's no government, and that's why you can't extend the school breakfast squares. In any case, Your Honor, if there is any discussion or lack of proper service, I have no doubt to pass it directly to me, because I will handle this investigation. Thank you very much, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u56	Thank you very much, President. You have the word Mr. Méndez Romeo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u57	Mr. Feijóo, you tell me about President Aznar. I like that memory. Do you remember exactly what Mr. Aznar did? He came to agreements with nationalist groups in a very surprising dialogue exercise, especially recalling what the political circumstances of the time were. And now you're in a position to reach that kind of agreement? Normally, Mr. President, you collect what you sow. You have sown authoritarianism, and now you have difficulty understanding it. But if we saw him here yesterday, what do you tell me about anecdotes, if yesterday 600 times other general problems in the country? What do you want us to really talk about, Mr. Feijóo? According to Spanish governance agreements? You have the responsibility to get the government, not those we don't win the elections. And that responsibility has to be exercised in the only possible way, which is by covenanting. Or are they already giving up government in advance? Because that's what it deduces, the powerlessness that translucents. Or are you asking that those of us who are defending an alternative program now hand over to government for free, because you are not able to reach agreements in this country? Mr. Feijóo, the sovereignty of authoritarian governments is now passing on to them! [[Applause]] But look, you wanted to talk about general issues, because we're going to general issues. Social affairs: users ask for help in the home, adapted transport and day centre. They have withdrawn the funding of help in the home that is provided in the municipalities; they limit the number of hours of transport so that people do not assist; they have risen the rates, which are 80% of the pension. Mr. President, risk processing, six months. And while people live like this, what's wrong? Discouragement fees in residences. Increases by 40% and in some cases by 300% and 400%. Of course, there are free squares now, not because there's too much supply, but because people are pulling out the bigger people from residences that they can't afford! You have invented a new social category: the category of those who have the right to dependency but do not receive benefit. Now there are rights, but they can't be exercised, that's a novelty! Do you know what that's called? Statistical makeup. Mr Feijóo, I think you should have more humility, and precisely should have it as a result of the results and accept that there is a certain degree of amendment to the policies that have been leading. And from then on, if you want to talk, you'll have to start making background changes...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u58	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u59	...in fundamental policies, if not, I find it very difficult for you to continue to pursue the rule of this country.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u60	The President of the Board has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u61	Your Honor, you reminded me of the history of Spain in 1996, where Mr Aznar, candidate, became president after reaching an agreement with Convergence i Unió and the PNV. Indeed, it came from the previous agreement that Mr. Felipe González had with Convergence and Union and the PNV. Your Honor, do you think it's good that we can make a deal with independent Catalan nationalists? Yes or no? Your Honor, say that what takes out the winds picks up the storms... or the seed that we collect... Look, Your Honor, you should look at what they collect on your side. Do you think it is natural that the Socialist Party is no longer an alternative to government in most autonomous communities in Spain, that it is not an alternative to government in most Spanish cities, that it is not an alternative to Government here in Galicia, and that it is not an alternative to Government in Spain? What did you do for us to become the second force in Galicia and the third force in Spain? Don't you think, Your Honor, that we should look at him among us all? Don't you think, Your Honor, that this deal should look at you all? [[Murmurs.]] We just offered you an agreement, Your Honor. Now, at the senator's session, we have just offered you an agreement: to vote for the People's Parliamentary Group and the Socialist Party all the senators we propose, and you have rejected it. Is that exactly what you want, Your Honor? [[Murmurs.]] Why are you trying to tell the Greeks that we don't want to reach agreements, if we proposed to vote for the senators by mutual agreement?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u62	Sorry, president.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u63	...to you and your conscience, Your Honor. We're going to continue working for Galicia, which is our commitment.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u64	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u65	Ladies and gentlemen, if the Members of the Socialist Party are unaware of the talks, it is a problem of the Socialist Party, it is not a problem of the People's Parliamentary Group. Look, Your Honor, we're still proposing agreements. [[Applause]] If you don't want to take them! You tell them about the school dining rooms. You were counsellor when the children's schools, their dining rooms, they all went out. You were counsellor of the Bipartite. All the children's school dining halls! You know that the Socialist Party's approach to Asturias...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u66	Mrs. Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u67	...to judge a dining room exclusively is the economic criterion. One hundred percent of the value, economic criterion, Government of Asturias. Your Honor, I think in the situation in Galicia in relation, for example, to Risga you don't tell us the truth again, because at Risga we're on the waiting list around zero, and we're going to end the year around zero. I mean, from the time the file arrives at the Galician Summit until we get a risk help, we're at the end of the year with a zero-waiting list.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u68	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u69	Look, Your Honor, what if I offer to the Greeks is to be faithful to the mandate they gave us: to give stability in Galicia, to have a budget approved on January 1st, to lower the tax on the income of the Greeks, to lower the tax on successions and prayers to 99% of the Greeks, to set zero for all transactions in rural, and, Your Honor, what I'm telling you is: think of what you're going to do at this historic moment. [[Murmurs.]] With Galicia, what they do after the elections! But with Spain, you think what you're going to do. In any case, Your Honor, what Galicia aspires to is not to be in the unstable situation of the vast majority of autonomous communities. [[Murmurs.]] Therefore, this group that aspires to in Galicia, within the time that corresponds to the completion of the legislation...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u70	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u71	...is offering a stable government, because, as you can imagine, ruling between you and We can't believe it's Galicia's solution. Thank you very much, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u72	Thank you very much, President. We continue with the development of the agenda, with point 2 of legislative texts. Debates and votes of the Ditame drawn up by Commission 1st, Institutional, General Administration, Justice and Home Affairs, on the draft law on transparency and good governance.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u73	Amendments to the Joint Group, the Group of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, the Group of the Parliamentary Group of the Left-Galga Alternative and the Socialist Parliamentary Group are maintained. Please, please be quiet. [[Murmurs.]] For the presentation of the Commission's Ditame, the President of Commission 1st, Institutional, General Administration, Justice and Interior, Mr Agustín Baamonde Díaz, has the floor. Quiet. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u74	Good morning, gentlemen. The bill you referred to by Mrs President was entered into the Parliamentary Register on 2 October 2015. The Bureau of Parliament issued its publication in the Official Bulletin of the Galician Parliament of 7 October and the opening of the deadline for the submission of amendments. Even so, hearing the spokesperson's board, he agreed to be processed by the First Institutional Commission, General Administration, Justice and the Interior. The amendments to the whole were qualified by the Bureau of the aforementioned Commission on 1 27 October 2015 and published in the Official Bulletin of the Parliament of Galicia on 28 October 2015. The Joint Parliamentary Groups, the Alternative Left Glaga and the Galego Nationalist Block presented each amendment to the whole, which were rejected at the plenary session on November 10, 2015. The amendments to the articulation presented, duly qualified by the Bureau of Commission 1a, were 289 amendments; in particular 25 of the Parliamentary Group of Socialists of Galicia, 7 of the People's Parliamentary Group, 62 of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, 43 of the Parliamentary Group of the Alternative Left Galicia and 153 of the Joint Group. At its meeting on 20 November, the Commission appointed the following rapporteurs: by the People's Parliamentary Group of Galicia, Ms Paula Prado del Río as the holder and Mr. Jacobo Moreira Ferro as alternate; by the Parliamentary Group of Socialists of Galicia, Mr. José Luis Méndez Romeu as the holder and Ms. Maria Soledad Soneira Tajes as alternate; by the Alternative Galga de Esquer Group, Ms. Yolanda Díaz Pérez as the holder and Mr. José Javier Ron Fernández as alternate; by the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block of Galicia, Ms. María Teresca Paz Franco as the holder and Ms. Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo as alternate; by the Mixed Group, she gave Consuelo Martínez García as the holder and Ms. Carmen Igles Sueiro as alternate. The constitutive part-session took place on 23 November, and after successive meetings the Commission 1st, at its meeting on 11 December, approved its opinion with all the recommendations made by the Committee in its report. The ditam is structured in a preliminary title and three titles, in addition to the title for the sanctioning regime. So far, ladies and gentlemen, the journey of this legislative text in the First Commission which I am presiding over, and which I now submit to plenary consideration. Nothing else and thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u75	Thank you very much, Mr. Baamonde. The turn of parliamentary groups to set their position on the dictatorship and, if so, to defend the amendments maintained. For the Joint Group, you have the floor to Mrs. Martínez García.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u76	Thank you, President. Good morning to all and to all. First of all, I want to start by saying that the work on paper has resulted in the enrichment of the text, since several amendments to the opposition have been accepted or negotiated. But it still keeps some text improved and another one with which I've kept a complete discrepancy. Of the proposed transactions, I do not accept Amendment No 11, Amendment No 88 to Article 10, and Amendment No 17 to Amendment No 108 to Article 22. Besides, I kept some of the amendments that were rejected. Thus, in Article 2, the guiding principles, I maintain Amendment 45, the principle of linguistic normalisation, encouraging the valorisation and standardization of the use of Greek in administrative and social activity. The situation of vulnerability in our language must move the Government to make linguistic normalization a guiding principle for any government activity. I also maintain in the same article Amendment No 48, the principle of gender equality, promoting policies for the effective equality of rights between men and women, preventing and combating any form of gender-based violence, and laying down all necessary measures to ensure the protection of women victims of gender-based violence and the people of their affective environment. The transparency portal is an ideal place to work for equality and the rejection of male violence whenever the Government does not have a macho attitude. I maintain Amendment 54 to Article 3, subject matter of application, considering that compulsory professional colleges should remain within the scope of this law. The same is true of Amendment No 55, which includes public foundations, and Amendment No 57, which includes religious entities; and more taking into account the large amount of public money received by the Catholic Church. I must regret that the new Article 4a does not include the assessment of compliance with transparency obligations. Any law must be able to be evaluable, and such an assessment must be mandatory, as it is the only way to correct errors and evasives and introduce the improvements that are necessary for its application. As for the reporting obligations, I keep amendments 69, 71 and 76. 69 speaks of contracts and concerts established with private entities, including public-private collaboration contracts, privatizations, outsourcings and subcontracts of services must appear on the transparency portal. They are public money placed in private hands to provide services to the population; therefore, transparency must be absolute in terms of both the use of public money and the quality of the services provided. Amendment 71 speaks of guidelines, instructions, agreements, circulars or responses to consultations submitted by individuals or other bodies insofar as they imply an interpretation of the law or have legal effects on citizenship. I understand that any citizen consultation that may have an impact on the rest of the citizenship – its answer – that generates doubts in citizenship, should be exposed to this transparency portal. They should also include the structural and non-structural waiting lists of our public health system, as well as health and socio-sanitary centres that are engaged in the administration. I also maintain Amendment 78 to Article 8 on obligations of legal relevance. Administrative and judicial resolutions that may be of public relevance, and firm judicial resolutions that affect persons obliged to comply with this law, for reasons of the exercise of functions and responsibilities which, in their case and by virtue of their award, must appear on the transparency portal. We speak of firm judgements of public relevance, that is, this amendment only states that it will be publicly denounced to any public office that violates the law in fulfilling its public responsibilities by causing an impact of any kind on society. And in view of this lack of commitment to the denunciation of those who violate the law, in article 9(c) there is a malicious intention in relation to trade unions. Amendment 23 proposes a wording on this subject. What must appear is the number of persons released from the institution, grouped according to the union organization to which they belong, the functions they perform, and the annual calculation of the hours used and the costs associated with these releases. Go further, with a nominal relationship and the expression in the text of "all the costs that originate", indicate an anti-democratic concept of labour relations, which understands union representation as a expense against the interests of the administration and not as a fundamental right of the working class. And this interest in the transparency of released and released institutions is opposed to the refusal to accept Amendment No 85, which states that the relationship between employees and public employees who have authorized the compatibility of a second position or activity in the public sector, or recognised compatibility with the exercise of private activities, or Amendment No 87, is exposed to the number of persons working in the administration through external companies under any public procurement formula and application agreements for each of them. The Greeks and the Greeks have the obligation and we have the right to know what and how it deals with these concerts, these agreements and these contracts with the Administration with the companies, what conditions are agreed upon for the employees of the companies and what are the working conditions governing the relationships of these workers who provide public services through private companies. I do not accept transaction number 11 to article 10, because what my amendment 88 intends is to establish that budget information must be understandable and easily evaluable by citizenship. It's not about giving a lot of data, it's not about that all the budget data appears on the transparency page. It is that these data can appear in an evaluable, comparable way, and that you can make an assessment by the citizenship of what the initial budget was, what was its application and what is the result of the actual final budget. I also maintain amendments 95 and 98 to Article 13 on reporting obligations in the provision of public services, which is extendable to concerts, agreements and any public procurement formula. These amendments require that any formula for granting or contracting public services should include corporate social responsibility clauses, measures to promote gender equality and the reconciliation of working and personal life, measures to prevent and combat gender violence and labour harassment and the implementation agreement. The fight against gender violence wants a clear involvement of the administration in all areas of public life; therefore, it must begin by including clauses in contracts that assess equality policies. He said yesterday and again today: here again the People's Party insists on not demanding companies working for the political administration of gender equality, equal pay policies between men and women, policies against labour and sexual harassment in companies, policies of corporate social responsibility; measures that are in the law and which should be compulsory for any company that cooperates with the public administration. It is essential that we agree to apply to these employees of companies working for the Public Service, because it is not the same – and we are now looking at it by talking about school dining – contracts with companies for unreasonable prices, that the Administration knows that they will no longer be able to meet the obligations of the company with its employees and workers. And so it's the administration itself that, with its policies and concerts, it's promoting the dismissal of workers and workers in companies that are concessionaires of public services. As for transaction 17, with respect to Amendment No 108, I cannot accept it if I do not include points (d) and (f) of the amendment. Point (d) said: "The staff requesting information is entitled to receive it within the maximum time limits set by law." Like a law that is being passed if you refuse to collect that citizenship has the right to receive the information you request within the time limits set by the law itself! As well as point (f) that says, "Knowing the reasons why information is not provided in whole or in part, and also those for which information is not provided in the requested form or format." If these points do not appear, the law is useless, for citizens cannot demand their compliance. The minimum you can tell one or a citizen who asks for information and is not granted, it is not given, it is not that time passes and the citizen or the citizen has to guess that they will not answer it, but that refusal to give an answer must be justified before the citizen or the citizen who asks for information. Because that's the only way you can complain or reconsider your request depending on which of the problems you might be facing. If we join this in the negative sense of the administrative silence collected in Article 25, line 5, we are again before a propaganda law that the People's Party does not intend to take. Citizens' requests for information cannot be sent with an administrative silence, the denial of information must be exceptional and probably justified, giving the claimant the opportunity to file allegations. That's why I keep Amendment 111 and Amendment 112, which regulates the inadmissibility of applications and partial admission of applications. I keep Amendments 117 and 118 on the Galician Transparency Council, although I accept the transaction that has taken place, because it includes within this council that will be the office of the People's Valedor or the Council of Auditors. The important thing is to collect competences, composition, functions and capacity for the performance of high positions. In the text of the motion there was nothing of this, and I am therefore glad that at least the appearance of the Board of Auditors is accepted in this body. Article 40(3) is not acceptable, so I keep amendments 127 and 128. No high office may be in your possession or per person imposed direct or indirect participations in companies receiving or not public subsidies, or working for or not for the Administration. A high office can't have economic interests in business, because it's a person capable of having privileged and anticipated information. I also maintain Amendments 131, 132 and 133, which establish infringements for failure to comply with their obligation to provide information on transparency. Beyond transparency on incompatibilities, business, income, law enforcement must also sanction non-compliance with its information and transparency duties with citizenship. I am finished with Amendment No 140, which I maintain, because I believe that the very serious and serious offences regulated in this law that caused damage to the public estate, or to the fundamental rights of citizenship, and its sanctions, did not prescribe for the purposes set out in this law. And although I have accepted the transactional to the first transitional provision, I believe that an line 3 should be added in this provision, which had ensured access to information relating to pre-existing actions of this law, which will be made available to those who so request, because not to be found, even though it is in principle the spirit of the presentation, that information is not offered to the citizen. So for these reasons, above all, because of those reasons which I consider discriminatory, which do not primarily favour transparency, the right of citizens to claim before the denial of information, and also because of the discrimination and bad faith in the article that refers to the transparency of trade union organizations and the lack of transparency of religious organizations, I am going to abstain from the dictates of this bill. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u77	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. For the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Paz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u78	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to begin this speech by recalling that there was something more than a month – a month and twelve days ago – we were discussing taking into account this bill, in which this Parliamentary Group – besides others – formulated a refund amendment for being radically against its content in the sense that we considered it to be absolutely insufficient to respond to the transparency needs of today's society. I will not reproduce that debate, of course, in this process of passing this bill, but I will later make mention of some of the elements that we considered as keys in that intervention. I say this because the text that is being submitted to this plenary today has changed substantially in the presentation procedure. And I would like at this moment, as I have already done in committee, to make it clear that in this case there was a provision by Mrs Prado and the People's Parliamentary Group, practically would say without precedent, in order to try to reach agreements in different areas; which I think modestly meant that we have a project of much more quality, of much more capacity for citizens and citizens to really exercise their right to information, transparency and good government. In that sense, I must state that amendments – and they have also been negotiated – have been accepted, but I would like to begin with those accepted – are not merely cosmetics or insubstantials, but they substantially change the initial content of this bill. If I may, I would particularly like to mention the amendments which have been accepted by this parliamentary group; for example, Article 17, where the obligation to provide information in relation to urban conventions is introduced, which now certainly does not, but in the past – and perhaps in the future – were very important elements that gave rise to corrupt practices. And by means of this amendment that is accepted by our group, it is imperative that everything related to urban conventions, including landowners etc., should be made public that information. We also find it particularly relevant to the amendments that were literally accepted by this group in relation to the actions of government in functions, which are very much demarcated, not only by amendments that were accepted directly, but also by transactions – even incorporated at the last moment into this text that we are going to approve –. So that, for example, when a government is in office, it cannot adopt any kind of resolution that would put an end to a procedure of approval or refusal of plans that had to do with territorial or environmental legislation, which, of course, were also elements that in this country have motivated a lot of disputes in this matter. Also through transactions, not only with this group, but with the other parliamentary groups, I believe that very significant progress has been made in this bill. It would have to begin almost by saying that the first progress has to be circumscribed to what is the scope of this law, which was beginning to be a virtually restricted scope of application to the public administration, its instrumental entities and some other element, such as political organizations, trade unions etc., and finally, thanks to the transactions that have been reached throughout the presentation, we have two key elements that have been introduced: one, which has to do with the obligation of active advertising, that we say it remains more in the public sphere; and the other, the obligation of passive advertising, that is, of the right that citizens have to request information in relation to certain aspects, which virtually extends to many areas that were initially excluded from the scope of application of this law. And to me, for example, in that sense, it seems to me that it is particularly relevant what we introduced in Article 4 that the obligation to provide information reaches all natural and legal persons engaged in the administration, i.e. contract adjudicators with the Administration, or all natural and legal persons benefiting from public subsidies, public money, by the Administration. Because, indeed, we were saying in the whole debate that, given that today public actions cause much of the public money to end up by deriving, through its management or grant, from companies or private entities, we could not allow such a large volume of public resources to be left out of any kind of control by the citizen. We also believe that significant progress has been made through the introduction of transactions with opposition groups in relation to the transparency of the administration's functioning. It seems to me that, for example, to introduce the obligation to publish the institutional agendas of members of the Galician Union and of persons in high office is an element that makes considerable progress in transparency; as is the one included in Article 8, in which it obliges the publication of the detailed and motivated relationship between the procedures for drawing up draft laws and administrative provisions of a general nature, because this allows the citizen to do a greater follow-up to the normative production of public administrations. And we also believe that some progress has been made in relation to what we could define the second part of the law, which is what it has to do with good government, essentially in the whole debate that there were certain obligations of high office, such as advertising of declarations of goods and interests, which were excluded from the obligation to advertise. We believe that the transaction introduced adequately preserves the safety of those affected by this right of publicity while introducing criteria of greater transparency in that area. And finally, another issue that seems important to me and that has changed – there is more, but time is limited – is that initially it was established that the obligation of advertising began after the entry into force of this law, with which all previous actions were excluded, and I believe that we resolve this issue properly without collapsing the administration through a transaction that is that active advertising actually enters into force with the entry into force of this law but citizenship has the right to request documentation from all those businesses and actions prior to the entry into force of this law, with which I believe that we resolve it in a fairly appropriate way. Having said this, I would like to express that there were two or three issues in the whole debate which were fundamental to the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block of Wales. One could certainly not have solved it in this Parliament, because it had to do with what we thought a law on transparency should be adapted to international conventions that believe that it should already have the treatment of a fundamental right. But I'm saying I'm not going to sue this matter because this Parliament is not in a position to change that situation. But there is a question that for the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group is particularly important and that we have not resolved in the speech. It has to do with the fact that this bill, like the law passed in the State and that it has already entered into force, establishes negative administrative silence in relation to the right of petition, or the right to request information by the citizen. And that, in addition, has no sanctioning consequences in this law. Mrs Martínez already said that we have established a sanctioning regime in this very comprehensive law for many areas that regulate this law, but yet there is no sanctioning regime for those people who deliberately violate or violate the right to information by citizens and citizens without any kind of motivation or any kind of justification for administrative silence as a way of denying the right to access to information. To us, although this may seem unimportant, it seems particularly relevant to us. Because, in view of that, citizens and citizens only have one way left, which is to make a prior remedy to that commissioner who creates this law to ensure compliance with transparency rights, and, if not, to use the Administration of Justice to enforce his right. And why is this particularly serious? Because we say that we have a history in this country of lack of a culture of transparency that has motivated that has already in force a law of transparency, of course infinitely more limited than we have right now, but even being much more limited, giving much less rights to the citizens and even complying with those minimums. And so I think this matter is very important if we really believe there has to be a law on transparency that really respects citizens' rights in relation to the right to information, the right to somehow monitor the actions of public authorities and to monitor what is the destination of public resources. As far as transparency is concerned, I would say that this is the fundamental discrepancy which the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group maintains in relation to this bill. As far as the second part of the law is concerned, which is the good government – to understand us between the Members and the Members – despite the fact that there have also been significant progress in that area, as I said earlier, there is still an issue which is important to us, especially in view of the situation and perception that we live in citizenship in relation to public office, in relation to what has been called the rotating doors and the relationship between the public and the private. We are fully aware that there are aspects of what we call the rotational doors that we will not be able to regulate entirely from the Greek Parliament, but yes, for example, in relation to the incompatibilities of the high office, we maintain an amendment to suppress the compatibility of the teaching activity of the high office on a permanent basis. We don't say that occasionally you can give a master's, a class, a lecture, but we do disagree that this is legally qualified on a permanent basis. We also maintain an amendment because of our discrepancy with the article in...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u79	It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u80	...which, at its first point, establishes a deficiency, a two-year period of deficiency for those persons who have held public office to return to private activity related to their office, and yet we disagree with the fact that point 2 is maintained in this article, except for the provisions of the preceding heading, the persons who have already performed that post previously. Or we also consider that the limitation set in Article 42(3) that it is possible to return to an enterprise or entity with which, depending on its position, it was related to being in front of the Government whenever it does not have more than 10% participation...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u81	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u82	...in this company, for example, we think it would have to be eliminated, because actually, it's not the same thing to have 10% of a normal and current law firm in Ourense or a U.S. mercenary to have 10% of ACS, is it? –I think – or from Actiona. I don't think anyone gets away with that's a pretty relevant matter. I therefore conclude by saying that this parliamentary group amends its initial position in relation to this law that we expressed in the debate of the whole, that it was of complete opposition and that we even ask the Government to draw up a new law, by a position of abstention, very positively valuing the progress made by both the acceptance and the transaction of amendments from the various parliamentary groups, valuing in this measure the effort made by the rapporteur of the People's Party, but demonstrating that there are three or four elements which are essential to us and which make us unable to give our full support to this text. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u83	Thank you, Mrs. Paz. Parliamentary Group of Alternative Left Gallega. Mr. Ron.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u84	Good morning to all and to all. We'll start, first of all, talking about the background of this bill that we're discussing today. The initial text, as was already advanced by the spokespersons who preceded me, offered a dense mosaic of evasus and serious limitations on objects, principles, definitions and scope of what must be the provision of basic right to information by public administrations, aspects that caused our amendment to return to the whole, because, in essence, in that text we saw only a sort of declaration of goodwill of what must mean opening the black box of bureaucratic devices. Where the principles of openness, participation and democratization had to be firmly rejected, we saw the principles of selective closure, exclusion and opacity anchored. It was a text that emanated from a kind of show what we do, without doing, using a fashion terminology, "transparency", as a sort of panacea that would already contribute to having an open, democratic and participatory government. That is with regard to that initial text. We understand, moreover, that behind this formulation there was Law 19/2013, of December 9, of transparency, access to public information and good government, of the State, a law that cannot represent, as it is today, a good law, fully guaranteeing the right of access to public information, because there was no simultaneous review of the Organic Data Protection Act and its regulation, which makes both laws collide, and in that collision what is lost is the right of access to information to the citizen. If we'll highlight what the vocabularies have already done before me. The work done in presentation and the correct disposition of the group that supports the Executive has favored an improvement and a correction of many of the evases that we have detailed after the full return, if well, as we said, with regard to those three principles of selective closure, exclusion and opacity, we consider that there are still aspects that remain in the current bill. I'm going to talk about some of the aspects that still deserve reflection on all of us. For example, in Article 4a, promoting the culture of transparency, there is in our understanding the confusion that good government or an open government is synonymous with electronic government, but international analysts expert on open government and active transparency point out that electronic government is necessary, yes, but that it cannot guarantee for itself good government and citizen participation in public affairs management, which is a fundamental aspect for AGE and which is a natural consequence of the right to access to information. Because good government means power, whereas an electronic government is simply management. In addition, remember that Tim Berners-Lee, the father of the web, said that information must always be understood and expressed in a concrete, tangible way, because there is no synonym between the expansion of information in the power of the public and its access. There is outstanding evidence that legal, digital and institutional barriers are being introduced in access to information that violates the right of information and participation of citizens, even in countries with legislative frameworks in principle in favor of, as has been said, in the Spanish State with the law mentioned above. To empower citizenship, linguistic accessibility has to be a reality in order to provide information on organized and structured data, because unorganized data is not information. What has already been mentioned: the need for evaluation processes, participation processes with regard to everything that is intended to be offered in promoting the culture of transparency. We will also point out that one of our amendments made a special anchorage in articles 20 and 23 of the Spanish Constitution, collecting 19 human rights or the United Nations Convention and the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, which defines the right to information precisely as a basic human right, closely linked to the participation of citizenship in public life. That's fundamental to us. From there our Amendment No 2, where we textually introduced the right of participation, in close line with our Amendment No 3 – this is transactional – where we define the principles that we understand of AGE must characterize a law of transparency and good governance: relevance of information, transparency, free access to information, responsibility, non-technological discrimination, veracity, gratuitousness, linguistic normalization and citizen participation. We understand that we cannot claim to collect as principles, as we do in the transaction, citizen participation, but then we do not effectively give a real realization to that participation, because the secret is one of the ways in which this participation is limited. The secret – and I'm going to talk a bit about this concept, because it's becoming a form of government regulation – is that excess of secrecy has negative consequences for the general interest, and even for the national interest, because, in addition, it prevents accountability and the public cannot be involved in debates that are essential to their lives. We understand that the secret must be limited to strictly precise cases; otherwise, access to information would be reduced almost to purely administrative information. AGE defends the presumption of disclosure of all information for all citizenship, so that it can be really informed and participate in public life. In fact, there is one fundamental aspect: the secret also affects people's lives, because we have the right to access the data that the Public Administration has about us, and to be able to verify and correct it, because we know there are blacklists, we know there are blacklists about people, and therefore we have the right to access fully. The secret cannot be about our lives and about the information that the Public Administration itself has about us, and logically cannot intervene in other aspects that are fundamental to knowing what the Government is doing about certain aspects. So then the secret cannot be a form of government, because for that way that we define as opaque, many of the issues that affect the establishment of agreements in the practices of privatization of public services are left out. Reducing the secret and opacity of the black box of bureaucracy means expanding prevention against corruption and strengthening democratic health. That's basically the meaning of Amendment No. 9, and not others who went there. And it is in line with the eves that place us under Law 19/2013, where article 14 collects up to twelve cases that allow the exclusion of the right of information and the secret. And it also goes in line with the amendments that we keep here, for example Amendment No. 6 to Article 3 (e) or we, that we ask advertising, that the record of property of the high office ceases to be reserved and becomes public. Or the heritage statements, because we understand what they were saying, that in the good government and precisely in that open government we want to favour because there can be no opaque areas, especially if there is nothing to hide. With regard to other amendments that we keep alive in this debate, we understand, for example, Amendment No 13, to Article 24.4. When the text maintains that the requesting person is not obliged to motivate his or her request for access to information, however, it may explain the reasons why he or she may request information and that they may be taken into account, we understand that it is not appropriate; so we clearly say that he or she should not motivate his request, because we know perfectly – and there is clear evidence in the regulatory system – that, when something becomes optional by the Public Administration, it ultimately becomes compulsory, and we say that it cannot appear there. Just as it has already been commented, in Article 25.5, when it says, "Overdue time to resolve without saying and notification of express resolution, it will be understood that the application has been rejected," we understand that this is an attack, it is a violation of rights, because we have to take into account that the state level of more than 50 per cent of applications today are not being answered. If we established by law a negative silence, because logically it would have even more negative consequences in the implementation of this law itself, which would remain in many respects without effect and would imply a slower and less efficient process – that of course – in addition to that negative administrative silence violates one of the most basic principles that define the right of access to information, which is the need to justify total or partial denials of information. We are defenseless, when we are denied, we are not informed and denied in a negative way. Logically, we know that this is going to be the essential attribution that the Government will practise, for the sake of that prerogative that will appear in the law. That is why we understand that this is a fundamental aspect, which actually limits the scope of what is intended to be done. Well, other amendments that we logically did and kept in line with the need for an independent supervisory body and a Council of Transparency. We know that amendments by the People's Party have been accepted to ensure that everything is done dependent on the People's Valedor. And yet you yourself have fallen into contradiction, because in the fourth transitional provision they appeal to the People's Valuer to be able to redeploy resources, to reorganize his own department, when we know of course that, if there are no more human and material resources, he can hardly carry out the tasks entrusted to him by this law. Therefore, it should not be made to fall upon the Valator, the Valator of the People, exclusively that task, but on the Public Administration itself, which must provide means, human resources and materials for the entities to carry out their work. So there are aspects, others have already commented, I've been ahead of them. Indeed, for us the turning doors. We know that we set up a maximum amendment, because we used, instead of two years, the term ten years, but between the two and the ten we could be open to a dialogue, a change. It wasn't done, well. We understand that in some cases, in some cases, in some cases, we know in a sober manner that we do not have to deal with the small offices of lawyers, with the return of a person who is a lawyer at his office, but we appeal to the bloody aspects of privatization of obvious public services, that the two years may not be sufficient, because we know that there are many strategies to maintain a certain solvency economy during that time, especially when we talk about high positions that have reigned through those rotational doors and opaque channels, which we understand precisely that this law, by declaring itself in a certain way subject to the law of the State, logically, because with the fourteen or twelve epigraphs of exclusion, will logically make that, in many of these aspects, the rotational doors remain a real reality in our country. We therefore welcome, yes, the – evident – modification of the initial text of what we have declared its amendment of restitution to the whole, we welcome the positive work done in the presentation and the willingness of the majority group, but there are still concerns for us, and above all, the administrative silence, which for us cannot be negative, because it violates a fundamental right. Our vote will be abstention.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u85	Thank you, Mr. Ron. Socialist Parliamentary Group. Mrs. Soneira.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u86	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen. In the questions to the president of the board, Mr. President appealed to propose agreements. It has to do with this debate and the circumstances in which it has occurred. And it is also good to remember, and memory means – the data are there – that there were consensuss in this country whenever the Socialist Party was in the opposition, because the Socialist Party always reached agreements when it ruled the People's Party, in most or in minority. The consensus was never reversed, where the People's Party in the opposition even used certain instruments very sensitive to the country as a weapon of opposition, such as terrorism or even the country's economic situation. Let's all remember that "which falls from Spain, that we will lift it up." It comes to the story because, when this bill was introduced, and which led the debate our spokesperson, Mr. Méndez Romeo, has already announced, and it was also obviously evidence, because we did not present the refund amendment, therefore there was a desire to consent and to find formulas that would allow our government, our administration to be more transparent, that citizens could access all that information, because ultimately they are the holders of resources, means and everything that means the administrative process. It must also be said that this government, when the People's Party, the Government of Galicia accedes to the Government in 2010, receives us the barremos that have established an autonomous community that occupied the first positions in transparency, according to the qualifications that the organs made at that time, and that today, at the end of 2014, when the analysis is done, we are in fifth place. So here the inheritance received would also be good if you had made mention of it when it comes to positive facts, and which are objective, are not questionable. And I want to do here, as the spokesmen and the previous spokesman did, a special mention of Mrs. Paula Prado's role, which surprised me – I told her in the commission. Why? Because Mrs. Paula Prado is not a single Member of the People's Group, and on many occasions we have even had a debate here because Mrs. Paula Prado has been distinguished for being, among other things, the "armed arm" of the most belligerent policies of the People's Group and of what she represents against the opposition and against all that had come from the opposition, and I think that there was little chance of reaching a consensus, because there was no opportunity. However, in the debate of this law, I must say that I have rarely met with a level of collaboration, effort to reach agreements, to integrate what we have proposed into the law, few times. I say more: to us, of the amendments we tabled, and if we also make an offer that was made to our group yesterday, accept us, or trade 60% of all that we have presented. The simple fact that I have to mention this fact and this situation indicates the level of rejection and waterproofness that the majority group has to make to any proposal that comes from the opposition. So surprise, pleasant surprise in this case, but it also serves as criticism to the majority group that this has occurred because, at the end of this moment, a timely case, and of course by our group, and also by the rest of the groups in the presentation, I saw a desire to collaborate and contribute, as always, in all projects, but in this case it had reception by the majority group, and in other cases it was a frontal fight against the proposals brought by the Government. But we still kept some of the amendments that were not accepted. Why? Because some, on the grounds that they're already in the State's basic legislation, it's not appropriate to introduce them into the Greek law. I here call as a witness in this case the former spokesperson of the People's Group, Mr. Ruiz Rivas, where, in a debate, in the previous law, the law that we are now going to incorporate replacing the other, Mr. González Marines and Mr. Ruiz Rivas told him that he did not stay, in the arguments of Mr. Marines, that he was told that some amendments from the Block were removing them because they were already in the basic legislation and that they were not appropriate, Mr. Ruiz Rivas told him: no, but it doesn't matter, because we have to incorporate them here. Well, here the argument turns into passive. Also at that debate Mr Ruiz Rivas said that the Bipartite did not understand, that even the groups amended the text sent by the Government. In this case also the People's Group, and it seems that even following that argument, it seems even more serious because here the People's Group has brought about very important aspects of law, such as the Galician Council of Transparency, which, of course, without the amendments of the People's Group, would not appear. We keep it, I'm not going to review it all, and I'm not even going to mention those that have been transactioned, which have literally been incorporated, because they're there in the text, but there are some that I would like to bring here to the debate, because we think they're fundamental. For example, our Amendment No 5, to Article 6, which calls for the relationship between agreements, subsidies and advertising expenses in the media referred to in the previous budget year. This amendment of ours does not intend to control or monitor the media, we are not; we are talking about information, as if anyone else who is going to be included in this law when funding sources come from the resources of all citizens. Why? Because it is also convenient for citizens, when they read or listen, or when they see the media, to know exactly where the resources come from from from these media, - I insist - not to monitor them, not to direct them to an editorial line. Each one is very free, but when a citizen enters a bar in this country – which looks as if there will be no bars – and reads a headline in a media, man!, at least he knows that some of his resources come from his taxes, how much and to what extent, and so also we will sometimes understand why some headlines do. And I'm not saying that this is either good or bad, we don't question it at all in our amendment; we simply appeal to transparency, so that everyone can make their composition. We really believe that we should accept our Amendments Nos 8 and 10 to Article 9, where we demand greater transparency so that there are no repeated situations like those that have occurred these days, which affect an ambassador of the Kingdom of Spain and a former Member of the General Court, who are leaving the media and who are in memory of all of us. It's just that even very relevant positions of the People's Party itself had advised him to give up on an electoral list and they're even advising him now that he doesn't take possession. These things I think don't fall under the law for some reason – and I suspect Mrs. Paula Prado didn't let her go beyond the law – because we haven't just understood exactly why this can't be incorporated into the law. Because if there are positions of the People's Party, very relevant national leaders, who say... even I think I remember someone saying they were indecent practices or something, I don't exactly remember... No, I'm talking about specific situations we know through the media. We don't know how many more there can be, but, in any case, what our Amendments 8 and 10 refer to goes on that line, so that citizens know exactly who is in the administration, has another occupation outside, addresses matters that are strictly public, but at the same time has to do with their personal activity. In the 14th, a proposal was made to incorporate it. We rejoice, because it is important for us that it is included in the information that citizens have access to information on the assignment of contracts and subcontracts. We all have experience, especially those that we have started by local administrations, that sometimes certain public works is devoted to a particular cabinet, to a society, which in practice has virtually no workers, and which is subcontracted and in turn subcontracted. That's what citizens need to know, because they need to know why sometimes the public work ends in a terrible quality when there was at first a sufficient budget made by technicians who are supposed to be competent to carry it out and at the same time deteriorating working conditions. Because, in the end, when you start shooting, we end up in a subcontract of a subcontract that makes the work – worth the redundancy – of the workers ends up very damaged. And the 16th, which I must say here is that we tried until the last minute that we had been accepted and, of course, there was no form. We want the entities included in Article 3.1 to develop and advertise cost-benefit analyses for investment projects that exceed the EUR 5 million and which are promoted by the Galician Union with public resources, public-private collaboration formulas or concession plans; as well as those originally planned projects that are smaller but which, for project changes, soon exceed the said figure. The reports, with this amendment, we want them to be public and sent to Parliament. They told us not to. I just want to give you an example of why we put this. Only, ladies and gentlemen, should we all agree on the starting budget, what we were told in this House with the City of Culture, and where we are going. Some explanation will have to be. Or, for example, the Vigo hospital; or, for example, because they vary the conditions of an adjudication, which I am particularly concerned about, as is the highway of the Death Coast, which is adjudicated in conditions that are later modified by the road. From our point of view it seems reasonable that we have information about this – and here I call again Mr Ruíz Rivas in my aid – because in the same debate of the previous law, what I was asking for was even EUR 500,000. We didn't even go down that level. We say: of the works that are above in your budget of 5 million euros, tell us why they vary the exit budget from what comes to an end, because there will be some reason why. Maybe we found there a huge flow of cementation and we had to change it. Maybe, but why can't that be public? Why can't we have that information for every citizen in general? And I'm not talking about the Members of this House, which also seems reasonable, but we have other mechanisms to ask the Government. And despite the fact that I still hope that Mrs. Paula Prado at her farewell will do great, accepting even more proposals that seem reasonable to me from our group and from the other groups, because there we – I said at first – do not present the amendment for return. We're going to support this law and we're going to support it because what improves is much more than what it leaves on the way, and we're going to look for in the future that incorporates these things that the People's Party today does not have to accept us and that they can even arise in the future, because the evolution of the technological mechanisms of control are not stagnant, they're evolving and they're getting much easier. So the law will also have to be dynamic and it will have to be incorporated into the future. So we announce our support. And I also appeal to the generosity that Mrs. Prado had in her presentation so that she could even carry it as a baggage at a General Courts where it would be very necessary to speak, consent and dialogue. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u87	Thank you very much, Mrs. Soneira. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u88	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good morning, gentlemen. The truth is that Mrs. Prado hasn't changed, eh! Mrs Prado was rapporteur of many laws in this legislation, and those who have changed are perhaps some voices and voices from the other groups. Because, Mrs. Soneira, I've been receiving an e-mail return for 15 days, an e-mail that is being deleted from this House, from an ex-wife, who hasn't even read it; an e-mail that says, "This e-mail has not been read"; a proposal for a transaction of another bill that we discussed in February this same year. And when he got to the gallery he said he didn't want to talk about transactions because they didn't offer anything new. I later had to deal with the other groups, which I did agree with, and you voted against your own amendments, but it was a matter of the rapporteur of your group, not of the rapporteur of the People's Parliamentary Group. So I think consensus not only depends on you or on that we change, but I think consensus must also be among all with an objective, and the goal is that, in fact, the bills that enter this House can be changed by all groups and that we all have generosity in our approaches; and if all of us had generosity in our proposals, I think we would have brought out many more things by consensus. [[Applause]] I believe with you that we only agree in the Immigration Act, but, for example, Mrs. Peace, who has agreed with me in many more bills, knows that I always, in all presentations, what I say is always the same: what are the issues most relevant to the groups? what are the issues you want us to stop at more, where do you want us to make more efforts? I'm always the last one to get up from the negotiating table, I'm always the one I propose until the last minute deals. But, of course, sometimes it's difficult because, just like today, I think all groups, of all the reasons that were put here in this gallery, of all those who were exposed, none is as heavy as not to vote in favour of this law. I honestly don't think they have any weight reasons for either the Galician Nationalist Block or the Left Galician Alternative or the Mixed Group not to vote in favour of this law. There you are! There you are! This group is the only one who can say that he has never voted against or abstained from a law of transparency, no more or less; a law of transparency from which all the rapporteurs who went up to this rostrum and Mr. Ron also say that it has been much improved since he entered, and also substantially. Because, if you don't, from the amendments to the whole of these groups have submitted, to an abstention, the truth is, for those who don't know the bill, you have to give a hint of what has changed since you entered this House. And, look, we supported the Law of 2006, Mrs. Soneira, and we were in the opposition; we were in the opposition and we supported her Law of Transparency. It's true that there were things that seemed to us better, as you now say there are things that seem better to you and that I'm going to explain to you that no, that they are actually in the German norm or they are either in the state basic legislation, and that's why we don't accept it, but we've already explained that we're not going to incorporate redundant contributions by a matter of legislative technique. Look, from the People's Party, we actually incorporate the seven amendments that improve and extend, for example, the range of documents that need to be made public, the multi-annual planning of the Galician Board, which will have to be public too; it has also strengthened the independence and effectiveness of the controlling body; we also incorporate, through a transaction to that body, a person representing the Consultative Council and even the Board of Auditors. So I think that enriches that body, and not only was it through an amendment from the Popular Parliamentary Group, but we also incorporated two more independent bodies in the presentation work to control transparency. You said it, we approved more than 60 percent of your amendments with the latter 14, we approved 20% of the amendments from the Joint Group, which were not few, which were 153, if I don't recall, and almost more than 45 percent of the BNG. Frankly, from AGE it was very difficult to approve amendments, because, of course, Mr. Ron, you said here now that there were issues that seemed fundamental to you, and you spoke of article 4a. If it seemed so fundamental to you, why didn't you present an amendment? I mean, you come here, now, about things you didn't end up with. I mean, they first make amendments that have nothing to do with transparency and then come here and say that there are things that seem fundamental to you and that is why they're not going to vote in favour of the law. If it seemed so fundamental to you, I think you should have submitted at least one amendment. With regard to the English language, the basic law provides in Article 17.4 that applicants for information may be directed to public administrations in any of the co-official languages of the State in the territory where the Administration is located. So it's already guaranteed since basic legislation. But also through a transaction with the Joint Group we have formalized in Article 22 the right to receive the information requested in the official language in which it is indicated. And also Article 27.3 regulates that all information published on the open government transparency portal will be available in English and Spanish. I don't know what the water is, Mrs. Martínez. Then you talk about schools. Schools are incorporated because they are public law corporations, they appear in the law. And the evaluation of transparency is in Valador's report. All the information you ask for will be published. The compatibility of public employees already demands basic law, and public employment offers are included in this bill itself. I don't know what the ejaculation is. As for social clauses, he just passed the Galician board a development guide to the Rationalization Act to which you, by the way, voted against. As for the negative silence, I'd like to make a stop here, because the three groups of the negative silence spoke, and I explained it to them in committee, but they didn't seem to understand it. Look, negative administrative silence is a guarantee of citizenship rights. In the access request process, they collect the right of information and other rights, that of privacy, for example. Do you think it would be logical, for example, that by administrative saturation or by loss of an application, because if you receive an application, perhaps a citizen will acquire, by silence, a right to access, for example, another patient's clinical history? Would you see that reasonable? With a positive silence, that would happen; that is, anyone could access any information without the passing of minimal administrative controls. That would be an absolutely irreversible situation. With the suggestion that you make, you could give yourself that case and many others. But it's just that the Council of State itself... I read to you in the committee the statement from the Council of State, which I'm not going to reproduce here because I don't have time, and you've evaluated this regulation. Negative silence does not cause the violation of the right to access, which would be irreversible in the event that I have just exposed them and many others who might be. And there's also a free resource before an independent body that will consider whether or not that information was publicable. It is therefore absolutely guaranteed. And, Mrs. Paz, there is indeed a sanctioning regime for transparency obligations. There is, yes. Don't say it doesn't exist because it does. As for high-ranking salaries, they question salaries for attendance at boards or compatibility with occasional exercise, for example, teaching, which are the same as those that propose to delete with an amendment to the last layout first. And I've already said it in committee: this, the last provision, consolidates the salary approval of the board's staff. That measure meant an average drop of 9% in the salaries of this staff you criticize, and which was limited by categories, preventing the proliferation of executives with higher salaries than the President of the Board, for example. And it's a chance that they want to populism on the one hand by saying that they have to remove diets due to the board of directors, that they are allowed two, or that they have to be forbidden to cover when they form public employees in regulated and transparent activities, but at the same time they open the door that the executive does not have the maximum salary ceilings set by the Council; that is, they can charge much more while being on any board of directors and whether or not teaching courses. This is absolutely contradictory, Mrs Peace. We are not going to allow that absolute uncontrollability of wages, because that is the model that they propose with the abolition of the last provision first, and I suppose that one's amendments will vote for the others, or I don't know if they might ask for that amendment vote separately and vote against them, but in any case, that's what they say. And, Mr. Ron, your speech is not credible, because you, in the face of that mosaic of evas, did not present any amendments appropriate to the law, and, if you have improved the law, it was not thanks to the Alternative Left Galician. I'm sorry to say this, but if the bill that came in here has been improved and today we have reached a consensus – not absolute, as I would like, because I believe and insist that not voting in favour of this law is a mistake on its part – it was not thanks to AGE, because the amendments he presented had nothing to do with transparency. I told Mrs. Díaz, who, when the quality of the services was the law, was confused with the transparency law, presented a number of amendments that I did not accept because I told her they were transparent, and I told her that when the transparency law came in, I had presented them. Curiously he didn't rescue them for this law; curiously he didn't present them in this law. Not a single one, Mr. Ron! What happened? Of course, it's amazing. Only a year ago. What happens, that in a year you change so much that you don't agree with the amendments you tabled? Look, about the rotational doors, about the 13 articles in the law on this subject, 2 received no amendment – therefore I understand that they are in favour – and 6 others only received amendments from the Joint Group, in which one case has reached a transaction. In Article 45, in which there were amendments from three groups, a joint transaction was reached, and a new article was introduced at the instances of the Galician Nationalist Block to prohibit high-level charges from having funds in territories qualified as tax havens. I don't know, Mr. Ron, that you have amended yourself about the rotational doors that we will not accept and in which we will not propose a transaction. Nor is it reasonable to ask that the people who occupy high positions pass, after this, up to ten years in quarantine, unable to work in private; unless we want a true sort of politicians who are permanently in politics, because, of course, for a person – I explained to you – like me, who am a lawyer and I have a small lawyer's office, that can't work for ten years with no company, that can't be my client no company in Santiago because I have signed, at best, as conciliator 500 euros, 600 euros, 100 euros or 10,000 euros contracts, it's not reasonable. It's not reasonable for them to have a ten-year-old in quarantine. We won't admit that. Your Amendment 9 is clear, Mr. Ron, now say what you say, and you want to amend what you want to amend. He wants to amend the amendment. But, look, what the bill does is not refer to honorability, what it does is a drafting that is taken from the current law, which is the Socialist Party and the Galician Nationalist Block, is not a whim of the People's Party. But it's a logical question, because it's necessary to restrict the publication of the data of people who receive subsidies, of course, yes, you cannot publish the data of women, for example, victims of gender violence. It hurts you to say this, but it's just that, as your amendment is, anyone would benefit from social assistance, we would have to publish it, and that's not going to be allowed, Mr. Ron, if you put yourself on like you do. Because, look, the victims of gender-based violence, in many cases they don't even have to file a complaint, it's only worth a report of social services. And if you talk about these are black lists to be published, we're not going to publish a single black list or victims of gender-based violence or risk-perceptors or social renters or any perception of social assistance, because we understand that these people are entitled to their privacy, and that's why we're not going to go because that's a real attack, a violation of rights. Mrs. Soneira, I told you in the commission that your amendment 5 is redundant in relation to the media because if we have already published all contracts, including minors, all agreements, indicating the amount, and all subsidies, citizenship will have all the information about spending on advertising campaigns. I don't know what else you want us to include!: all agreements, all contracts and all grants. You tell me what's not included for the media to publish. As for your Amendment 8 and 10, it's redundant, I told you it's in basic legislation. On Amendment 16, the information you request is already referred to in the budget information. You see, in the 2006 Act it was established that the changes in contracts over EUR 1 million had to be published. What the People's Party was asking for and what Mr. Ruíz Rivas was referring to was for the publication of those who were over half a million. You do not ask to publish the amendments, and that, Mrs. Soneira, is not transparency, is budgetary regime. The law we are debating today sets out the obligation to publish all the contracts, and you in your amendment do not ask for such changes to be published, ask for a prior study. So we don't think it's appropriate to mix one thing with the other, and especially because you're asking for better regulation. If we go to better regulation, we can't mix transparency with budgetary issues. In any case, we are going to support your Amendment 14, on contract assignment information and subcontracting. And I hope that the rest of the opposition groups in these remaining minutes will reflect, because I believe that today more than ever, citizenship is asking us not only to agree, but that transparency issues are fundamental to citizenship, and they would not understand that they did not vote in favour of this law that cannot go beyond transparency. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u89	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. The role of the parliamentary groups in defining the amendments maintained by the other groups. Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u90	I'll start at the end. I sincerely would love to be able to vote in favour of this law, but I really don't think it guarantees transparency to the point... in fact, I am voting for it because I believe it progresses in transparency, but I think it's really very much better still. In particular, one of the things that would get the most upset is the negative administrative silence, even though you say it's a guarantee for citizenship. No, it's a guarantee for the Government. Let's see, let's take an example of access to another patient's clinical history. That can't be done anymore, there's a law that can't prevent it. So there's no administrative silence. It doesn't cost anything, and besides, you can't give data that's protected by a law, and it's held up on your own when you ask for information about that guy. It doesn't cost anything. We refer to the administrative silence on information or clarifications requested by the citizenry and to which it is not answered and there is no argument. And what we're saying is that there has to be an answer, even if it's denying the information, so that the person who asks for that information can resort to, explain and propose otherwise his information, and adapt it to get the answer he needs. We therefore find it very important that the negative administrative silence should be removed. It's also clear that all the information will appear in both languages – Spanish and German – and that the person can ask to be answered in one language or another, and I think that when I talk about wagering by the Greek language is that in any case the primary information will be in Greek and that if the person does not ask for any specific language, the answer will be given in English; that is, there has to be a priority and a wagering by the Greek language in relation to the Administration with citizenship. Also on the subject of the evaluation of transparency. So let's see, there's one part that takes up the assessment of the transparency of public charges in relation to everything that is the report on their incomes and economic issues, but not about their non-compliance with the obligation to inform the citizen. And when a high office refuses to give that information, or if they give answers like the ones we often receive even the opposition parliamentary groups to our written questions, they're a "I'm not going anywhere," a "I don't say anything," a "I mean to," with which, they don't answer the question. Or even the answers Sergas sends when the patients claim for a dilatation of their waiting for surgery or consultation are typical responses; then that should be sanctioned. If we really believe that transparency is fundamental in democracy, this law must ensure that the citizen has in his favour that the Administration always has to give him an answer, and when he does not provide information, he is obliged to justify the negative ruling. I will support the amendments of others. I think they're very coincidentally amended. We agreed with the administrative silence, we agreed with what we were talking about sanctions for failure to comply with the obligation to report, we agreed with the incompatibilities of high office. And I think that during the time it's high office you can't have business interests or business interests; you can't have them, because you have information that doesn't have the rest, and you don't need to have more than 50% to favor a business that knows it has to do with it, even if it's the years after you've finished your high office. To me the teaching activity, I think that... we'll see, first, when you do inside or out of your activity, we're talking about a multi-employment high office or we're talking about you paying an extra salary within what's your day as a high office, as a high office job. So I think we also agreed on the opposition. Then another important thing – and I said it before – is not to give a lot of information, but to give important information, in an understandable, evaluable, comparable way, and above all on the subject of budgets. You can't put the budget books into Parliament, make them public, and that's information to the citizen. That's not information, so that's, I don't know, driving citizenship crazy with a lot of data that's going to be unable to analyze. The important thing would be to present to the citizen the most clear and understandable information, especially in those areas that most affect him, such as education, health or social services. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u91	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. For the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Paz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u92	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, again. The Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group did not present any kind of amendment to all Title III, which is where the sanctioning regime of this law is established; we are perfectly aware of that. Article 50 lays down infringements and penalties in the field of economic and budgetary management; Article 51 incompatibilities and conflicts of interest; Article 52 infringements and disciplinary sanctions; Article 53 in the competent bodies; Article 54 in the case of prior proceedings; Article 55 in the case of proceedings; and Article 56 in the case of sanctions in the case of incompatibilities and conflicts of interest. I in my previous intervention said that there was no specific disciplinary regime in relation to non-compliance or abuses that could be derived from the Administration in relation to the non-giving of information requested by citizens. And this comes to the conclusion that I fully understand Mrs Prado's argument on the subject of negative administrative silence, which we have already discussed in committee. The amendment we tabled was to remove the negative administrative silence and to remove that last paragraph of the article in which it is negative, but we also stated in the motion that, if this was not possible because it contradicts the State Council Report, we could, at least, establish some kind of sanctioning measure to prevent that by the Administration, or by the public authorities, or by whom it is obliged to provide information, if administrative silence was used as a form of "boycotting" – among others – the rights recognized in this law. And we believe that this should be possible, but, in any case, to us it does seem important to us. Because it's true that we can't, to preserve that right to information, violate other rights. So we, in article 16 – as you mentioned – in which certain precepts are excluded in the case of subsidies and the obligation to inform, we made some amendments, but we said that in no case should there be, in addition, areas of privacy of people. Everything that has to do with social policies and everything that has to do with individual rights of that kind, of course, we don't think it should be breached. But, however, and especially knowing the background of administrations, knowing the lack of culture, transparency and information we have in this country and also in the Spanish State, we consider it essential that negative administrative silence is not an element of systematic non-compliance with the rights of citizenship. And finally, in relation to articles 45, 46 and 47, in relation to the articles that refer to what we call "turn doors", actually, it's very difficult in a law to regulate all the cases based on the news we're having and the imagination that throw some of them into delinquent – I'm fully aware of that – I also believe that Mrs. Prado is right – and I said it earlier when I referred to the 10% participation in companies by public prosecutors – that it is not the same, that it cannot be called a rotating door to which I return to my previous activity. That has nothing to do with what we usually question as the turning doors of big companies, large lobbyists, big electricians, big builders. I am fully aware of that, and therefore I agree that I do not increase the 10 years generally. Even if we should look for some formula, I don't know if today or not in the future, to clearly distinguish what are the great pressure groups from what is a labor, mercantile, normal and current activity, which we have most of the people we are here, which we are also ordinary people, with a ordinary life, out of this. But that doesn't take away from us insisting that it would be good to delete paragraph 2 and to modify paragraph 3 in that sense that it said...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u93	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u94	...in advance: that it is not the same to have 10% share in any type of entity. We insist once again that we thank and believe that it is good for society as a whole the work that has been done in relation to this law and that, in fact – as you very well explained in your intervention – this motivates the BNG to present a new amendment of return to vote for abstention in this final procedure. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u95	Thank you, Mrs. Paz. About the amendments of the other groups, do you support them? Thank you. [[Assentment.]] Thank you, Mrs. Paz. Parliamentary Group of the Alternative Left Gallega, Mr Ron.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u96	With regard to the amendments of the other groups, we logically express the corresponding vision in the objects, in the principles governing the law and in the field, and above all in the need to increase all those aspects of the control of matters of the public domain and in what must be understood by public information. With regard to some of the things that have been said about the amendments of AGE, that if they are good, bad, bad, bad, and that they are not accepted for this reason, I'm going to say that some of them have done business -- i.e. I don't know if the transaction -- and, in fact, I've already said, one of the compromises appealed to the introduction of all the principles needed for the law to have a certain value. But that value and all these principles fall when the dogma of negative administrative silence is kept as prescribed. I mean, you can appeal to a case almost spooky in which positive silence grants rights that should not have a person. It's about what I understand: that a person receives another person's clinical report. But here the voicer of the Mixed Group has already said that it is a caseuistic, of course, speptic. We understand that what is in danger of negative administrative silence is of course greater than positive. In other words, a right is acquired, the right to know the causes of estimation and rejection, and the right to defend itself logically, knowing why it is denied or violated the right to the required information. Just as when we say you have to abolish the obligation to volunteer to justify the request for information. There are amendments. Indeed, it can be better or worse, of course, the work done, because there are amendments that have not been accepted and that remain unaccepted because they obey at the bottom of what you don't want to do. You remain in transparency, and in some respects, in terms of transparency, understood as an electronic government – I have said it before – so your amendment to Article 4a. We don't amend that, it's your amendment, brought in by the People's Party. And we understand that, in this function of promoting culture and transparency, you focus it solely on an electronic portal, on the electronic government, and the electronic government is simply managing. But we understand that a good government and an open government is power, and in that power is where for us the negative administrative silence and some aspects... You come to say that I endanger the rights of battered women, the rights of people who receive social assistance. It's not true because it has its own regulations, it protects them. We're talking about aspects that make discovery precisely those opaque channels that they don't want to make public. It's secrecy. When you work with the secret and with those twelve principles that appear as legitimate cause to keep information and the secret, because it's clear that the rotation doors operate there. These rotating doors speak of the benefits that certain private companies have obtained because of the actions of that person when he was in public office. We talk about other aspects. But you have come; of course, you must turn the dialectic towards our benefit. We speak of these aspects that all citizenship is aware that it exists, that it is precisely those that cause social alarm to corruption and that cause disaffectation to public office and politics in general. That's what we mean when we speak of that amendment; we don't endanger battered women or people who are beneficiaries of social assistance, no, sir! And that's why, when we talk about amendments, we logically look at the work of the groups that accompany us in that task. And that's why there are amendments that we salute the BNG, that we salute the PSdEG and the Joint Group because, indeed, among all of us, we all want to improve what output was an evacuated text, a poor text, a text that didn't meet everything I wanted to do. And we say that if certain privileges, such as negative administrative silence, are maintained, they will make the law – in a way, the BNG spokesman has already said it – be like a boycott. I mean, since the public administration, in those cases that I didn't care about, it automatically boycotts. And we want to prevent that boycott, we want to guarantee the right of access to information, because it will be...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u97	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u98	...the right of access, the right of participation – which is another that is not expressly developed in this law –... We will support the amendments to the opposition and reaffirm our vote of abstention to this bill. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u99	Thank you, Mr. Ron. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Soneira.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u100	I'm going to start with something a little unpleasant because, Mrs. Prado, it took you a little bit to the counter, you know? Because, look – and I'm just going to say this – I don't think it's fancy what you did here, frankly. I think there are things you shouldn't do, and you've missed a great opportunity. I don't know if this is your last debate in this House and, if it is, I wish you every success – personal success; politicians, of course, will understand that, at last, each one of us is where we are – and I want you to follow the attitude that you've maintained until today that... but I would like you to take to the General Courts the heel that you kept in the presentation and even in the commission and not what you had here today. I think – I insist – that it was very not very elegant. Second question. It is not true, Mrs Prado, that there was will in all the laws and of you, particularly in the debates... Home!, look, for example, budgets – said our spokesman. Do you think it is reasonable that more than 600 amendments were not reasonable?, that none had a minimum common sense and that it was beneficial for the country? And in what you discussed with me, the Presidency and the Vice-President, do you believe that of all the amendments that we tabled none deserved even a second to try to speak and reach meeting points? So that's not true. Here – I told you before – there is only consensus when the Socialist Party is in opposition and governs the PP, because the Socialist Party offers collaboration on certain issues, you understand? And that didn't happen. Second question. When you argue, for example, on the subject of publishing all contracts and grants, on the topic of the media or the rest of the contracts, sometimes the best way that there is no transparency is to submerge the citizen into an information group. Look, we know this House well. When there are sensitive matters where the Government doesn't want us to understand what's going on, because sometimes in article 9, after repeating it you don't know how many times, they send you around almost an information container... yes, sometimes yes. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Listen, if you want, we told you about when we were sent a supposed information on the boxes, in a room put there, with a security guard, because it looks like someone could take a photocopy... Members, representatives of the people! And, of course, the best way you sometimes don't have any information is to submerge you into an excess of information. And when we talk about the annual relationship, it's very easy for the administration; it's a key, point. We are going to vote, and I will also use Mr Ron's argument: perhaps if there was a desire to reach consensus, we could tone some of the amendments tabled by the other opposition groups; as they, surely, some of which we still keep alive. But as this is not the case and the will is already announced here that this will not be possible, because we are going to vote on amendments from the rest of the groups. And also – as I said before – we are going to vote favourably for the law, with the same constructive spirit as I said at the beginning, and also saying that, if there is no desire for transparency, the best law is useless and, if there is any will, the worst law can be used so that citizens can access that information. Look, I'm going to give you an example of what is opacity. Mr. President of the Board signed a decree to appoint the Director General for Social Inclusion on November 9. It is not clear to us today that this woman formally – I do not know whether she has already done so now, but at least at that moment she has not done so – had resigned as a concelebrant in the Town Hall of Lugo and as a provincial representative in the Provincial Deputy of Lugo. If you take the trouble of entering the Social Affairs Council page, you will see that you make no reference to that, none, and that appointment, according to the Incompatibilities Act, signed by such a Manuel Fraga Iribarne, would be illegal. So without law, you can be transparent, and if there's no will, with law you can be very opaque. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u101	Thank you very much, Mrs. Soneira. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u102	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'll start with Mrs. Martínez. Mrs. Martínez, in relation to silence, the remedy is not hindered by law, the remedy can be made by any citizen, and it is also free of charge. I think it's good to go through if there's no access to information; i.e., the resource is not prevented in any case. You say the information has to be clear and understandable. This is a stubborn thing that you've had in the entire presentation, put it in all the amendments. Let's see, we've already put it in a lot of articles of the law, but we've already reached an agreement in the paper, and we're also advised by the lawyer, that by legislative technique we can't reiterate in all the articles that information has to be clear and understandable. Home!, is that you say: it does not appear specifically for budgets. Well, and for many other things it doesn't appear specifically either, but it appears in the general principles, it appears to the whole law, and I think that there is no doubt that it became clear and understandable in the law, it is worth redundancy. Mrs. Peace, on Article 52.2, there are the infringements when there is a breach of access rights. You talked about 50. In 52.2, there are sanctions for infringements of the right to access, and I think it's clear enough. And on the rotating doors, too. Look, we can go back to our position because precisely this law that we are adopting today forces us to abstain on the issues that affect the companies we work in before, and that's why we can work afterwards. It's just that, otherwise, it would be unthinkable if a high office that works in a company could make decisions about that company and then come back. This law prevents that situation, and you know it; I don't understand that approach. Look, Mr. Ron, about your Amendment 9, you can give him the rounds you want, but what's written is written. See, Article 16 is an article that has 3 points, where it is obliged to give a series of information and it is obliged to publish all matters relating to grants, and in point 3(a) of paragraph 3 it says: "They may be excluded from the publication of those assumptions that the publication of the data of the person would benefit on account of the object of the aid is contrary to and to the safeguarding of the honour and privacy, personal and family, of the physical persons, by virtue of the organic law 1/1982, of May 5, of civil protection of the right to personal and family honor and privacy and of the image itself." Its amendment could be of addition or modification, but its amendment is of substitution, and with substitution it removes that paragraph. So if your intention was to keep this going, your amendment had to be different, and that's why I say the intention was what it was. And if it wasn't that, you have to think a lot, when you make populism, the consequences that it will bring to practice that populism, because these are the consequences: that you could give the situation that victims of gender violence would come their name on a portal of transparency for the welcome and the joy of their batter, or people who would benefit from the Risk, or people who would benefit from a social rent. You don't intervene because you've stopped being a Member when you've been named... [[Mrs. Díaz Pérez speaks words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u103	Quiet, please. Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u104	Mrs. Díaz, don't make me talk about wanting to end the party in peace. [[Mrs. Díaz Pérez speaks words that are not perceived.]] I know the amendments are yours. I'm talking to Mr. Ron...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u105	Quiet, Mrs. Díaz, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u106	I, Mr. President, if I may... because I understand that, of course, Mr. Ron is taking this speech, when he, the poor, had to take on the amendments that Mrs. Díaz made to him. And now she's, of course, upset because she's put her group into a problem with the amendments. [[Applause]] But I'm not going into that game because it's not my intention
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u107	Silence! Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u108	Mrs. Soneira, look, in 2006 we were in opposition...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u109	Quiet, Mr. Fajardo, please. Finish when you can, Mr. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u110	If you want to intervene, ask your group. It's just that I'm not responsible for not letting him speak, Mr. Fajardo; I'm not responsible. Look, in 2006 we were in the opposition and you were in the government, and, being the People's Party in the opposition, voted in favour of the Law of... it's impossible, of course! [[Murmurs.]] That's the totalitarianism on the left, which I always talk about. That's totalitarianism: they don't want to listen to different opinions, they don't want to listen to those who think different from them; that's totalitarianism of what radical left parties gallant about. [[Applause]] I'm not going into that game. Mr Soneira said that in 2006 we, while opposed, supported and voted in favour of the law of the Government – from which the Socialist Party was party – on this issue. On three outstanding issues, I wanted to say that with Amendment No 17 of the BNG we are going to make a transaction to Article 4; with Amendment No 117 of the Joint Group, a transaction to Article 30a; and Amendment No 57 of the BNG we are also going to make a transaction to Article 47, which I will then read to you in the vote. And, if I may, Mr. President, as this is my last intervention in this House, I would like to make a reflection. I would like to thank from this gallery all the people who helped me when I entered this institution – many are no longer here, but if they are always in my memory, others are still friends –...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u111	A little education, please. She's saying goodbye. [[Mrs. Díaz Pérez: Education that she has when she speaks.]] We'll leave things on your site. [[Murmurs.]] Go ahead, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u112	Thank you, Mr. President. Others follow as companions and fellows in my group, of what I want to say goodbye to the person of our spokesperson, Professor Puy, master of contents and forms; the ways that always encouraged us to maintain and not lose, far below the opponent's flight. I appreciate your teaching, I'll take them to Madrid, Mrs. Soneira, and I hope the High House has a higher level than what some groups have shown in this legislation... I also thank the unjustifiable attacks on my person, because they made me stronger, despite some, and also goes my gratitude to the comrades and fellow members of the Commission 1st, especially to those who share many intense, passionate and substantial debates, but always putting first the interests of Galicia and always maintaining respect; which I thank to the spokesmen of Commission 1st, because, despite intensive debates, we have always maintained respect. As I said, always putting Galicia ahead of you. And with Galicia I walk in my head and heart to the High House. I will defend with the same intensity and passion the solutions to the problems of the Greeks and the Greeks, and that is why I will defend Galicia in Madrid and where necessary. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u113	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. We also wish you good luck from here. Debates and votes by the Ditome, drawn up by Commission 3rd, Economics and Budgets, on the draft law on tax and administrative measures
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u114	Amendments to the Joint Parliamentary Group, amendments to the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, amendments to the Parliamentary Group of the Galician Left Alternative and the Socialist Parliamentary Group. The Vice-President of Commission 3rd, Mrs García Pacín, has the floor for the presentation of the dictation.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u115	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning. The bill was entered into Parliament's Register on 20 autumn 2015. On the same date, at the meeting of the Bureau of Parliament, he delivered his publication in the Official Bulletin of the Parliament of Galicia and opened the deadline for the submission of amendments. Even so, listening to the Speaker's Board, he agreed to the trial by the 3rd Commission, the Farm Economy and Budgets. Parliamentary groups of the Galego Nationalist Block, the Alternative Left Galaga, of the Galician and Mixed Socialists presented amendments to the whole, which were qualified on 30 autumn 2015 and rejected at the plenary session on 10 November 2015. Parliamentary Group of the Socialists, 25, the Parliamentary Group of the Glaga Alternative of the Left, 25, the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, 22 and the Joint Parliamentary Group of 31, which were qualified on 5 November 2015. At its meeting on 17 November 2015, the following speakers were appointed: by the People's Parliamentary Group of Galicia, Fr. Pedro Puy Fraga as the holder and Ms. Paula Prado del Río as alternate; by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia; by Mr. Juan Carlos González Santín as the holder and Mr. José Luis Méndez Romeo as alternate; by the Parliamentary Group of the Alternative Glaga of Left, Ms. Yolanda Díaz Pérez as the holder and Mr. José Manuel Fajardo as alternate; by the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block of Galicia, Mr. Francisco Xesú Jorquera Caselas as the holder and Mrs. Anne Belén Pontón Mondelo as alternate; and by the Joint Parliamental Group, Mrs. Martínez García as the holder and Mrs. Carmen Igles Sueiro as alternate. At the meeting on 19 November 2015, the articulated text of the project was studied, together with the amendments tabled, and the report was finished, which contains the recommendations that the presentation made to the committee, consisting of the adoption by most of the amendments made by the People's Parliamentary Group, except for paragraph 5, which was withdrawn, and the acceptance of paragraphs 12 and 15 of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia. A consensus amendment and several technical amendments was also introduced. With regard to the remaining amendments, they remained pending for the commission. The committee, meeting on 26 November 2015, adopted by most of the rapporteur's report, which was incorporated into Amendments Nos 7 and 8 of the Joint Parliamentary Group. The text of the speech before the debate and the vote at this plenary meeting contains a statement of reasons, followed by 54 articles, a transitional provision and 5 last provisions. The joint is divided into two main headings: Title I, relating to tax measures, and Title II, relating to administrative measures. Title I, divided into several chapters, sets out changes in the regulations governing own taxes and state taxes. Title II regulates various aspects of the following: public employment, transport, housing, water, confrereries of fishermen, sports, tourism, social services, energy, official chambers, internal commerce, research, agriculture, planning and economic and financial management and local administration. The normative text is closed with various forecasts contained in the transitional and final provisions. Nothing else and thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u116	Thank you, Mrs. García Pacín. The turn of parliamentary groups to set their position on the dictatorship and, if so, to defend the amendments maintained. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u117	I want to start by saying that I keep my amendments to this bill and that I will vote unfavorably the same. First of all, because the downside of the IRPF is an electoralist measure that is neither the moment of doing it indiscriminately nor favors those who have less. I propose a scale of 12 tranches, instead of seven, where most people make the most of their contributions. Maintaining quality public services requires the administration to resume through taxes. And this contribution of citizenship must be solidarity, so whoever has the most must make. It is the only way to ensure equal access for all and all to free, universal and quality public services. It is incomprehensible a measure of this kind – there is a riot, president! – in the economic and social situation that Galicia lives if it is not under an electoral prism. [[Murmurs.]] In 2009 the active population of Galicia was 1,319,600; six years later it was 1,262,400; 57,200 less. In 2009 there were 1,153,000 people working in Galicia; six years later there were 143,000 less working. In 2009, there were nearly 200,000 people working in the industry; today there are 162,000; 37,000 jobs less in the industrial sector. In 2009, there were 167,000 unemployed; today there are 253,000; 86,000 more, despite the loss of active population. The unemployment rate in 2009 was 12.6%; today it is 20%. In 2009, the number of long-term unemployed was around 45,000, today around 154,000. 70,000 Italian workers and workers on the other hand receive an annual salary of less than 5,000 euros, i.e. a monthly salary of 351 euros gross per month under the minimum inter-professional wage. 83,500 workers and workers in Galicia receive an annual gross wage of less than 10,000 euros per year, i.e. less than 700 euros gross per month. One out of every five workers and workers in Wales on an equal footing, i.e. 20% of them suffer from work poverty, i.e., their wages do not cover basic human needs: housing, food, health, hygiene, energy, water, taxes... 100 thousand Greeks work part-time because they don't find a full-time job. Women are three times more likely to suffer from work poverty. In the lower wage line, according to EPA, 27% of people have been in this job for more than five years, which means that work poverty is being pursued in our country. The public staff of the Galician administration continue to suffer from the cuts that you have approved and which extend in the 2016 budgets. Seaga's staff are still doomed to work poverty; the investigator's staff, convicted of work insecurity and insecurity; people in need of social support, waiting for months and months for risk. So I believe that there are enough reasons, enough needs and enough social emergencies in this country to avoid indiscriminately lowering taxes and for these taxes to be used precisely to cover the rights of these most vulnerable people, to meet their basic needs. But no, the People's Party decides that it already has enough money, that it can continue to deny, as in budgets, aid for energy, help for books, social housing, measures in gender violence, and that it can continue with cuts in employees' wages and public employees, but it will only pay for it, lower taxes. That's the social commitment you have; that's your social commitment. You could continue to cite situations that justify the irresponsibility of the tax reduction that you will approve or that you have already approved by the People's Party, because what you will no longer provide the highest incomes cannot be invested in the above-mentioned social problems. But there's not only a decrease in IRPF, but also in the tax of successions and prayers. I propose in my amendment a new scale where for real estate of more than 500,000 euros the percentage of reduction is zero. Any dwelling that has a value greater than EUR 500,000 has something of luxury, privileged status or some condition that brings it to this price. In addition, the reduction will only apply, as it comes into the bill, in the case of marriage, excluding couples in fact, the legal option that anyone has. He also demands cohabitation with the person who causes the right, not recognizing that many people, mostly women, for reasons of living size or others, reside in a home but attends two; women who are going to wash the dependent person daily, make lunch, give him medication, make his cures, and then return to their homes to make lunch, scrub and take care of minors. These women can't afford any tax benefit. As for inter-urban taxi authorizations, I maintain my Amendment 9, which seeks to grant inter-urban authorization in case of inter-living transmission when situations of survival occur. For many families this is the only means of life, so if you give yourself the case of a surviving disability to the holder of the licence, it should be subject to transmission to another member of the family unit or to another person interested in it. I also maintain my Amendment No 10, which I intend to make sense of the text of the motion, which provides that the fulfilment of Title IX of Law 3/2012, of Galicia's sport, is suspended until Galicia has effectively had an autonomous police force and has statutory powers in relation to the protection of persons and goods and the maintenance of public order. With which, I understand it is a legitimate aspiration of this government that Galicia has competences in this matter. That's why my amendment calls on the Union to claim the same. It is that this bill is not intended for the most vulnerable. It is also reflected in the rejection of my Amendment 11, which adds a new Article 29 in relation to the protection of children and children, which states that in compliance with the powers of the Union in relation to the protection of destitute and destitute minors, the Government of Greece will promote actions aimed at guaranteeing the rights of minors and children to reduce risk, unemployment, poverty or marginalization situations in which they can be found, to protect and protect minors at risk or at loss, as well as to provide more material and human resources for juvenile teams, host teams, adoption teams and traveling psychologists, to create a service of guards located in minor teams on Sundays and holidays, as well as working days, from the three afternoon until eight in the morning, as they only work at the office, and to which the Union sets out the necessary measures to reduce the use of the detention resource and to enhance less familiar measures, especially attention. I don't understand why the People's Party rejects this amendment, which only calls for the protection of minors and minors, and when they also lower taxes because they have money left, but they're not prepared to strengthen juvenile care teams or protect minors from poverty, for example. The People's Party also rejected Amendment No 12, which added a new article 29 on measures relating to gender-based violence; measures such as economic benefit to women victims of gender-based violence for a duration of 18 months, extending to 24 – and that there is enough money – that this amount is equal to the minimum inter-professional wage and granted within a period not exceeding 30 days; that it is granted immediately and preventively. It doesn't make sense to put women at risk while they wait for them to be answered. It is preferable to her preventively and, if she does not meet the conditions, claim her return, but it is necessary to protect women first; therefore, she should be immediate. Also, the deadline for submitting applications is the whole year and for withdrawing the aid from school centres that segregate according to the genre, to allocate the said amount to the fight against gender violence, where it will do much more for this society. The People's Party was able to accept some of these amendments, but it rejected them all. The recovery has come, the green shoots bloom, the taxes drop, but there's no money to protect the lives of children and children. On the one hand, the speech; on the other hand, the facts. I said yesterday, they don't accompany the measures that take the speech that you have before society. I accept the transaction proposed in Article 32 because I understand that failure to comply with the obligation to invoicing on the basis of the actual consumption of electricity companies must constitute a serious infringement, and its repetition, a very serious infringement. I am pleased that this amendment had been accepted, even if it was negotiated, because serious are also the consequences of false readings. Many families may have problems paying the electricity bill because of a misreading, and they may be cut off from supply. With regard to the promotion of the merger of municipalities, the People's Party's Star measure, I maintain my Amendment No 18, since it is not understood that, on the one hand, if it promotes the merger of municipalities and, on the other hand, it dispenses the municipality resulting from the merger of the provision of minimum compulsory services, which would be managed by the deputy. The PP is not modern, it's not current, we all know that, of course, it became clear in these elections to Congress. And one of those anachronies that the People's Party has with citizenship is its insistence on defence of MPs, to the point of allowing the right of eternity in them, turning an institution into a medieval lordship. But it also urges the People's Party not to count on the union intervention on the issues affecting employees and public employees, so it rejects Amendment 19, which seeks to negotiate the new RPT with the legal representation of workers and public workers of the municipalities which, if necessary, merge. As for the second final provision, the People's Party rejected Amendment 21, which seeks to guarantee the rights of workers and workers not affected by Articles 88, 89, 91, 92 and 94 on maternity, paternity, breastfeeding, etc. My amendment insists that the right to a permit exercised by a person cannot violate the right of another person; that is, the rights established in these articles should be covered by interim contracts rather than by replacements of his own staff. The bill, in addition, will keep in force the measures for cutting rights to public personnel collected in Law 1/2012, which is called temporary measures, but of course temporary measures can be a day or a century, which is clear is that temporality is going to go too far. But the PP breast-feeds and does a good job of raising the public staff's salary by 1%, while rejecting Amendment 22, which called for the abolition of the final third provision – so it was on Sunday!–. That third final provision called for a derogation from Law 1/2012. Amendment 22 was also rejected, which called for the abolition of the fourth final provision, which seeks to keep under the control of the People's Party the Galician Radio-Television Company in the next legislate, which happens in the upcoming autonomous elections. In short, I will vote against this bill because I believe that it does not respond to the urgent needs of Galicia today and because I consider it irresponsible to lower the tax burden it introduces, that in addition to unfair to the taxpayers themselves it is unfair to those people who do not make the income statement, who are exempt because they have no income. These are going to be the people most affected by their change in the IRPF scale and their tax reduction. So I don't expect you to recapcitate, I don't expect your social policies, and I will therefore vote against this project. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u118	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. Parliamentary Group of the Galician Nationalist Block, Mr. Jorquera.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u119	Thank you, Mr. President. Members and Members, with this debate culminates in the process of a law in which they amend, without counting the laws on taxation or budgetary matters: the Galician Housing Act, the Fishery Brotherhood Act, the Galician Tourism Act, subsidies, chambers of commerce, promotion and defence of food quality, public employment, public transport of persons in tourism vehicles, the Galician Waters Act, the Galician Sports Act, the Social Services Act, the Internal Trade Act, the promotion of research and innovation, the Mountains Law, the Law regulating the local Galician Administration, the Law on Public Media and Audiovisual Communication of Galicia. And I'm convinced that I forget to quote some. Finally, it culminates in the process of a bill where we can debate both the IRPF and the taxi licenses, the merger of municipalities, the care of dependent minors, the reinforcements of electrical supply in industrial soil or the CEO of CRTVG. You judge whether this is serious, whether there can be a pause and reflective debate on the scope of the many legal changes that are proposed. But, in addition, most of the laws that change are of the current Government, some of them this same year, you judge if this is no more evidence of the continuing improvisation that characterizes this Government. But already focusing on the defence of the amendments tabled by the BNG Parliamentary Group, we introduced a total of 22 and I will begin by referring as soon as possible to amendments to Title I, Tax Measures, since they were already discussed in yesterday's session as well. Amendment 1 proposes to introduce more progress on the IRPF autonomous scale. In the new sections covered by the bill, only the tax effort is increased for incomes of more than EUR 67,000, and in the case of incomes of more than EUR 100,000 only an increase is applied in the processing of around EUR 300, which does not reach even an additional 2%. This is what we intend to correct our amendment, in order to achieve greater progress we propose to increase the number of tranches and raise the tax pressure on high incomes by as much as we do not oppose the downsizing of types for liquidable bases less than EUR 20,200. We think with our proposal it would increase the collection by 18 million euros. Amendment 2 proposes the abolition of reductions introduced into the tax of successions and prayers, and in this way resources could be increased by 42 million euros. The 3 proposes to establish the minimum exempt from wealth tax in €300,000 and to introduce more progress on the tables. The impact on the collection would be EUR 35 million. At 5 it proposes to create a tax on large commercial areas. According to our calculations, it would provide the West Bank with an annual revenue of EUR 30 million. And in this sense, I have to say that we strongly disagree with the People's Party's argument that the implementation of this tax would be contrary to free competition, violating Community legislation that allows for free implementation. Look, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, what concerns free competition is precisely the excessive proliferation of large commercial areas, because they cause a great concentration in the sector, ruining the proximity trade. They use their position of force to impose total and absolutely Leonine conditions on suppliers and are the way to the massive introduction of foreign products, causing serious prejudice to the local economic fabric. In the use of milk as a claim product we have a good example, and that is why I ask them the same question, as I told Mr. Feijóo at the control session this morning. Ask our owners what they think of the practices of the large commercial areas. You also argue that a lot of licenses have been granted during the Bipartite. They forget for once, if they're capable, the Bipartite and wonder if you've reached the stage of oversaturation of large commercial surfaces. We believe that it is obvious that yes, and, therefore, if it is so, we must also use the tax route as a deterrent to put a stop to this situation. On the other hand, you opt on the contrary, and in the title of administrative measures of this bill they modify Galicia's Internal Trade Act to remove competence from the municipalities by integrating the urban license of large commercial areas into commercial authorization; all in order to continue to favour the proliferation of large areas, as much as they lead to the ruin of our small and medium-sized trade. Finally, as far as tax measures are concerned, Amendment 6 proposes to impose a tax on bank deposits. Against the current state tax rate of 0.03 %, we propose in our amendment a minimum rate of 0.3 for deposits of up to 150 million euros, increasing it progressively to a rate of 0.5 for large depositors. The imposition of this tax would provide 115 million additional income to the Welsh Fairy. The People's Party in this regard argued – in the Commission – that the implementation of this tax would be illegal, because there is already a state tax, claiming that we ignore that what was illegal was what the State Government did, which committed a real fraud of law by implementing a state tax to leave without effect the taxes on bank deposits that had established different autonomous communities. A tax that, in addition, initially was of type 0%, and then had to be changed to establish a ridiculous title of 0.03. Together, as we said yesterday, these proposals would make it possible to raise the revenue of the Welsh Fair in 240 million euros, raising resources to actually wager for social spending and productive investment. Other amendments aim to correct the abuse of indirect taxes and taxes approved by the Government of Greece throughout this legislation, because you yourself have increased taxes, increased indirect taxes, gentlemen of the Government of the United States. This is how Amendment No 7 proposes the abolition of the rise on the tax of hydrocarbons approved in the Budget Act of 2014. And in Amendment No 4 we propose that the Tax Administration have an obligation to justify in each file the valuation of the property to determine the taxable base of the tax yielded. There are a number of judicial resolutions and also of the Economic and Administrative Court that question the valuation methods used for the review of the value assigned to the immovables, requiring reasoned assessments in each particular case. But so far the Galician Union has not corrected its valuation methods and procedures. As for our amendments to Title II, "Administrative measures", several amendments propose to restore the labour rights of public employees. Thus, 22 proposes the repeal of the law of temporary measures in certain public employment matters. The 8 proposes final recovery of the permits withdrawn from public servants, and in the same line 9 seeks to recover the additional rest days depending on the age of those who had owed them. Amendment 10 proposes to include a definition of the empty or unoccupied dwelling in the Galician Housing Law, so that municipalities can include charges in the IBI's municipal ordinances, as authorized by the Local Housing Act. Given the state's inactivity, which has been for more than twelve years without saying a regulation defining an empty housing, we believe that this definition should be applied in the use of autonomous competences. Amendment 11 proposes protecting electronic social history to ensure that it is used exclusively by public services managers of social services, avoiding the use of it by private operators for other purposes. Amendment 12 is of particular importance. Amendment 12 proposes deleting Article 29, because in this article it is intended that minors do not have specific and specialized care in their own centres for minors. I mean underage dependents. And believe me, gentlemen of the People's Party, that it is against any professional and rational criterion that a highly dependent minor is entering a center of older people, many of them with advanced dementias. The 13 proposal removes Article 30, which amends electrical regulations, reducing the threshold to cover the costs of electrical supply reinforcement installations in industrial soil. As a result, as we have already said in the whole debate, many companies will have to bear higher installation costs, prejudging productive activity and generating jobs for the benefit of electricity companies. That's in a surplus country in electricity generation and precisely where the energy costs are, and not how much labour costs from certain sectors are covered, which are threatening the viability of many companies. As far as local cooperation is concerned, BNG proposes more simple and effective ways of rationalizing the local map rather than further promoting, as proposed by the bill, the merger of municipalities. Amendment 17 thus proposes to guarantee funds to support cooperative initiatives in the field of local services, preferably through the establishment of communities or comarcial consortia. And 18 proposes the inclusion of a new article to transfer to Galicia's board of functions and inappropriate services provided by provincial deputies. We therefore consider this to be much more rational than considering that the great solution to the problems of our local map and the fusion of Oza-Cesuras. To review the role of Members starting with the transfer of total and absolutely inappropriate services provided by provincial Members and to encourage communities and comarcial consortia. But, finally, I want to have a particular reference to Amendment 22, which proposes the abolition of the last fourth provision. This provision seeks to amend the Galician Audiovisual Media Act in order to extend indefinitely the current CEO of CRTVG. Finally, Ministers of the Government of the Galician Union, and ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, you intend to hang around, lurking in an omnibus law, in the midst of the debate of budgets, and covered by the noise of the electoral campaign, your intention to give a hand blow on our public television radio, to perpetuate the partisan political control by the People's Party in it, even beyond the present legislation. In order not to be that way, so that they may not give this hand-knock on CRTVG, in addition with nocturnalness and alleviation, I announce that we request the separate vote of this amendment, Amendment 22 from BNG, which proposes the abolition of the last fourth provision, for which I request the support of all groups of this House, as well as logically, for the rest of the amendments tabled. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u120	Thank you, Mr. Jorquera. Parliamentary Group of the Alternative Left Gallega, has the floor to Mrs Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u121	We continued the sterile debate that we had yesterday on the part of the budgets, and we reiterated once again our indisposition to the legalization of the Council of Galicia. I'm going to repeat again, and I won't get tired of doing it, that this technique is absolutely wrong in a legislative sense and improper and unnecessary by a government that bears the absolute majority. They have 41 Members, and there is no need to repeat that, indeed, they do not have substantial reports that would at least make the Government's action or public propensities more transparent by 2016. This is precisely the lack of a substantial report, as is the report of the Economic and Social Council, because it does not point out how aberrant it is to claim that it is lacking because this rule does not affect economic and social matters. Aberrant, aberrant, because, as you know, it affects twenty and so many rules, that many of them, starting with income, have economic and, of course, social relevance. So, once again, we denounce the way of ruling the People's Party in our country. On the other hand, there are actually two parts in the intervention, one that has to do with the tax proposals made by the People's Party, in which we show our absolute inconformity, as we have already said, and we will explain, in addition, why, and why we advocate amendments to that tax proposal that the People's Party is making. But there are also rules that have to do with very relevant administrative measures in all kinds of social, plural, transversal policies that will have consequences, of course, yes, in the whole of our country, of those consequences that I didn't want to talk about in the morning of the President of the Council of Galicia. Well, why are we in conflict with the proposals that incorporate in the so-called commonly accompaniment to budgets in tax matters? Well, because the tax procedure of the People's Party is as follows: first, you don't want taxes. Secondly, they have a theorem that claims to me from Mr. Montoro, and Mr. Puy takes some plenary without repeating it, I told him in the Commission, but he likes to make this kind of comparison. You try not to vulgarize the economy, this metaphor that the public economy, the public budget is like the budget of a housewife, and there's no such barbarity. And the second is that it's better to lower taxes and that people have resources in their pockets, of course, and this is another barbarity. You're saying there'll be savings in that way. There's no saving, among other things, because what you're doing with that vulgarity – if I allow expression – or vulgarization of the concept, is actually charging public services. That's their reality. I'm going back to saying that the level of public services in a country is determined according to the tax system we have, and I'm going back to saying that we're about seven points away from the average of the tax pressure in the whole of Europe, but we're about fifteen points away from a state, a republic like France, at fifteen points away, if we're away from it. But besides, all the speech you're doing is fake. I, Counselor – again here, I thank you for your presence – you assume and are campaigning – a bad campaign with a loss of five seats, as you know – actually telling us that taxes will be lowered. I tell him that according to the memory of his budgets, that tax drop is going to be a cut of 140 million euros. And the question is the same again, Counselor, the next Council of Galicia is going to have to cut, or tell us in 2017 the forecast they have, how are they going to fill up that hole they're leaving right now? And the most serious thing is that you're doing it in a tax, the only tax we actually have direct. And I'm going to tell you, in addition, why you're wrong about reality: you drop direct taxes and go up indirect taxes. Look, another report... yes, yes, yes, see, Counselor, another report of these that they like. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Look, indeed, you, the people's party policy, let's go on these budgets, they're going to be taxed indirectly – those who pay Amancio Ortega, Roberto Tojeiro son, or an unemployed or unemployed person who pays 426 euros for unemployment, for subsidies – exactly 125.3 million euros, which exceeds 31.5% of their forecasts. That's their policy, it's to lower direct taxes and raise indirect taxes, and to charge part of taxes. I'm going back to say what the Fatda technicians say, the Gesha technicians – who are not, I insist, revolutionaries – who say they are actually charged by the policy of bonuses, the tax of successions, prayers, legal acts, heritage transmissions and so on. So, well, it's a dislate with the needs we have in this country. So a great lie is the one they're putting before society, no one believes them. We actually campaigned, explained all of this, and people knew perfectly what was going on. The zero land transmission cannon tells whoever they want, they know exactly what's going on; Counselor, really, people aren't stupid. On the contrary, they knew perfectly and are aware that their policy of indirect taxes, payments, compensation, pharmaceutical payments is real. So the first falsity is that they're going to leave a hole of new cuts amounting to 140 million... yes, sir, we read the papers, Mr. Counsellor, and that's what they say, in their memory, if they don't change it or change the technicians. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Until recently you were a technician, so, I don't know, change; but clarify how you're going to do it. Because what Mr. Puy told us yesterday that we don't understand or look for the square of the circle is that it's impossible, Mr. Puy, it's impossible, Mr. Puy. And indeed that brilliant economists are indicating that this is so, Mr. Puy. [[Murmurs.]] You're not the smartest in the world, and I respect you very much, but you're not the smartest in the world, Mr. Puy, really. [[Murmurs.]] Look, and we're going to follow your policies, your policies are tax amnesties, those are your policies, tax amnesties, speeches about tax policies to this group none. So I say again, we don't share what they're doing in this accompanying law. Second, your proposals for women and for men who want to have children in this country, well, I'm a joke, I'm not going to repeat myself, because we already have the indicators on the table. They're bankrupt, Counsellor; if you intend to change this country's vegetative balance with these tax policies it is that they live on Mars, not on Montepío, on Mars, Mr. Counsellor, on Mars. Having a son or a daughter today is an impossible mission, unless we want to bring children to starve. Just like the women of this country, we have to do like the Palestinians, not to starve, but to fight in this case. The same approach would be feasible. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Well, let's go on, what do we do in that way? That's why I was so worried about Mr. Puy yesterday. Of course, what we do is an amendment in which we add progressive value to the IRPF and, indeed, there is the trap of the People's Party. It's just that in the last two tranches, starting at 53,000 euros, where we're most supportive of the contribution of wage income, you're just where they get the most. That's the reality of their tax policy, and we tell them we don't share it, it's over! And we know, it became clear yesterday that this democratic spirit in formal terms that the People's Party has is going to be reflected today without accepting any of the measures or amendments which, of course, we propose. Because, of course, we are out of reality, according to you. We have amendments that we believe of relevance and even that have been part of this country's ideological discourse and the collective work of the Members and Members of this country, because they create their own self-employed police corps. I, I don't know, just like we're on Mars too; I don't know, we'll be on Mars, but we'll really be going through the debates, well, it seems like we're feeling common. You also amend that they have to do with the declaration of general interest of all urban waste water purification services, all of them, to avoid what we are suffering at this time. They don't accept it either. And also an amendment to the unique social history where we find electronics, it seems to us that the plugin is not of little relevance. Especially after the report of the Advisory Council that told them about the clinical history and privatization they practiced in it, which was brutal the report of the Advisory. We told him, of course, to do this is direct and public management; of course, direct and public, not to repeat the report of the Advisory Council on the medical history. We asked for things as relevant as what it has to do with the gas plant and the revocation of the authorization we brought here to the debate, exactly the same thing. I understand that, and I know that, and I understand that they don't accept it, they're defending the Tojeiro Group's interests, they've been taking a long time and they're not going to change their minds now. I also believe that all opposition groups have done so, and that is what we need to do in this country for the granting of licences to large commercial areas. We asked for two things in this amendment, the first, to incorporate an indefinite moratorium and in the meantime, of course, the cautious suspension of all licences that are being found in progress. And then, on a mediated nature, of course, to make a sectoral plan of commercial equipment. Because, Counselor, you also know what the situation in this country is, you know all the autonomous and autonomous people in this country, any town – small and large – doesn't matter what we're going through: sell, lease, sell, lease. It's impossible, sir... well, I don't know, like I say Ferrol, and I'm telling a lie. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And a walk through Magdalena's neighborhood, rationalist, very beautiful, and I'm dreaming and I'm not saying: sell, lease; no, it seems like it's all going great and commercials are happy in life. Well, I swear it was like that! [[Murmurs.]] Well, what it has to do with the amendments we incorporated into research at the university, eliminating the criterion of economic solvency. Because you guys at the back door are privatizing the R & D+i, a discussion we've had in the Commission on various occasions. And, of course, the deletion of Article 41, in which you properly apply the private right to all R & D+i contracts and even direct taxation of those contracts – you don't need to read the precept, which you know –. As well as what has to do with the capital of public companies, your proposal is that it does not exceed 10% and we say that it does not fall from 51% to ensure that the public is the majority. Also the abolition of amendments that you say – some serious things – there will be no budget allocations and appropriations in those actions where there is no good budget execution. In the case of the Galician Union they would have to remove the budget, because there is already the balance of the budget execution. But if you did, we could see ourselves in the barbarity that essential public services without running would not be met by this – you literally, yes, Counselor, that's the thing. And look, too, of course, what it has to do with our amendment 23, the deletion of the last provision, which has – I repeat again – the negative silence. Almost you in the processing of the political proposal of this country's Land Law silence is positive, there's positive, there you are; but here in the complaints made by the public staff of the different administrations of this country, there silence is negative. I mean, what you guys want is to dump them to the courts... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Yes, Counselor, two sentences have just been issued just a few days ago for the extraordinary wages of workers and public workers. But what? but if it's a fact, it's real, Counselor!, it's so!, I tell you it's true!, read the press, it really does. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Look, and then in the last third disposition, in which you derogate a lot of rules, well, we added a derogation. Because with his story and his speech that Galicia is going great, they don't fit any more cuts, and what we're talking about is what we're asking him to do, to derogate Law 1/2012 on February 29, so that public workers and workers can breathe. And we also ask you to have Article 19 of the Fifth Collective Convention once again come into force. And finally, amendment 25, we asked for the deletion of the text, because in the previous plenary session I was told to use the word cacicada was very strong, but, Counselor, what they just do in that audience that costs about 100 million euros to the Greeks and the Greeks for the use of the People's Party is quite serious. If it's not messed up, tell me what it's called, but it really looks like or it turns out to be a bit of a shock. Nothing else, thank you very much. And as we suppose they won't accept us any amendments, with that democratic spirit they have, because we'll stay the way we are.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u122	Thank you, Mrs. Díaz. Socialist Group. Mr. González Santín.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u123	Thank you, Madam President. Yesterday we passed the Budget Act here in this Parliament, or at least that was what happened in theory, because it is not actually approved because this Accompanying Law is missing, which is still a part of the Budget Act. It could be a very curious paradox, let's imagine – which is not going to happen to most of the People's Group – that this rule was not approved here today and that this rule was returned to the Government. What would happen is that the budgets of the Autonomous Community would not be equal, we could not execute the budgets of our Community, or in theory they would not at least be equal. So I insist again on the subject that we have already insisted on the first part of this intervention when we were talking about the amendment to return that these kinds of rules must be removed from our order. We don't share the bottom but, of course, we don't share the shape of this rule. Of course, this norm – which is a piece of the Budget Law – is done to avoid the limits that are marked by budget laws, limits on budgetary matters. For example, the creation of tributes or the modification of some tribute if a law does not say so. We are not questioning – we have also said – the legality of this rule, because it maintains the forms, but not the spirit of our Constitution, as several Constitutional Court rulings have said. This law is no longer a law, it is a revolutionary universe that mixes a wide variety of subjects; and of course, it is contrary, from our point of view, to transparency and even to the democratic quality of the rules coming out of this House. Of course, we could refer to the lack of reports, but also to the lack of discussion of the multiple issues that are discussed here in this rule. More than twenty rules are being amended in this law. It's a law that is divided into several parts: firstly, it has a explanatory statement in which the Government tries to justify the very essence of the rule, even referring to a Supreme Court ruling declaring the rule legal. As I told you, we never discussed this legality at any time, but, of course, then concluded that by being legal because it's a proper legislative technique. I'm afraid we can't share that, but on the contrary, we believe that there is unanimity today in the doctrine that these kinds of rules should not be used. I note that we never discuss legality, so we're not discussing legality, but the way this rule is made. After this explanatory statement, which as I told you, attempts to justify why this rule, we have two titles: Title I, Tax Measures, which should be – as it could not otherwise be in a normal legislative technique – discussed in the Budget Act, which we approved yesterday. And then a conglomerate of rules that are discussed in the administrative measures, in Title II, which certainly have no common connection; they are a lot of ad hoc rules that the Government, for various reasons, decides to modify and put them into this rule. And it ends this rule with several transitional and derogatory provisions. In the course of the Presidency, this parliamentary group will be accepted by two amendments. The first, the number 15, which amended Article 33 in an industrial sanction, which went from 10,000 to 25,000 euros. And also a second, our Amendment No 12, which amended Article 28, accepting that the single social history has a public character, something that we consider fundamental, and that I will then make more mention of it. There were also several material corrections, and all amendments by the People's Party, including a curious article 3, were approved to save the possibility of unconstitutionality of 100% deduction in property transmission tax and documented legal acts. In Title I we did not accept any of the amendments we presented, it is the title of tax measures. Our group has made an amendment to the IRPF, it's a amendment that I repeat that was not accepted, but that we of course believe that it should be valued by the Government and included in the next budget laws. In our amendment we don't change the table that the Government presented, what we're doing is to introduce three new steps in this rule to increase the progressive income tax on physical persons. So all incomes under €60,001, with our amendment, would not suffer any change in the tax they would have to pay, and only those people who had incomes over €60,000 would be increased. In particular, between €60,000 and €90,000 would pay 23.5%; between €90,000 and €120,000 would pay 24.5%; and those of €120,000 would then pay 25.5%. We understand that this would improve tax progress, and we would avoid, as I have already commented in the debate of the whole, taxing the same percentage a person who earns 60,000 euros than one who earns 6 million euros. This amendment was not approved, it was not approved by the Group of the People's Party, and I emphasize that this amendment would affect incomes of more than 60,000 euros. We believe that income should be redistributed through direct taxes, such as the IRPF or property tax, and not through indirect taxes, and we also believe that what you earn most, what you have most, is what you have to pay most. The Government also introduces a reduction in the tax on capital transmissions and documented legal acts applicable to agricultural holdings. The reality is that these farms already had a 98% bonus, so if they're 100%, we'd be talking about 2%, something very little significant. Of course, if this is a measure to put liquidity in the hands of citizens, it won't affect them very much. As I told you, this option was already collected in Law 19/1995, of July 4, and therefore is a measure, from our point of view, purely cosmetic. The reduction of the Land Bank's member lands was also already collected in Law 6/2011. So, as I'm telling you, with respect to the deduction applicable to rustic soil transmissions, as we're talking about interventional transmissions, it's not quantifiable in practically zero quantity, because we'd be talking about very little money what would be in the hands of citizens, since nobody would buy a rustic farm if they didn't have an building or can't be built, except for a farmer or someone who lives on earth. In short, these measures in terms of reality do not cost citizens virtually economically. There are also changes, as is customary, in budget laws, although they are made here at rates, prices and exemptions regulated by the Autonomous Community. We present a abolition amendment to the eighth rule of the X5 tariff of Galician ports, so that the 50 per cent bonuses corresponding to the boats that are trapped on autonomously owned docks, with locks of less than 1 metre at sea, are applicable to all types of vessels, and not only to those which have a length of less than 6 meters, or with an engine of less than 25 horses. We tried, I repeat, to be approved by this amendment, it wasn't possible, and we understand that it's fair, because of course there are problems with these kinds of boats, they also have those of more than six meters; in addition to the economic content that we expect for the Galician Union, we don't believe that this is why we were not accepted. All these tax changes, as I told you, should go to the Budget Law, and not into a law as is the Accompanying Law that we're discussing here. In fact, in the Budget Law itself, in Title VI, "Tax rules", it would be where all these rules should be. Then we moved on to Title II. Title II, "Administrative Measures," as I told you, is an amalgam of unusual rules, which have nothing to do with each other, and all they do is modify some aspects that the Government is interested in modifying right now. Chapter I is dedicated to public employees. We here also made an amendment, if it's true that the bulk of what public employees are about, we did it in the Budget Act. We in the Budget Act have already made amendments in relation to public employees to increase public employees' salaries by the year 2016, in relation to the December 31st of this year. We also proposed the reinstatement of the social action fund, something that the public officials had and now they have been removed. And we also ask that the 100% replenishment rate, except for those services that we consider essential, where the Administration could have the freedom to hire all the people who are necessary for the proper functioning of the public service. We also called for measures that had no economic cost, as it could be that the transfer of the transfer invitation to all public administration staff immediately took place where there were vacant squares and that they could not be occupied if they had not been carried out, in any case, such as that of the workers, since 2011. And it was also requested – as could not be otherwise – the recovery of extra wages and the derogation from Law 1/2011, of February 29, a law that as the law itself says is of transitional measures, but which is still being applied. Now in the Accompanying Law, we've made a new amendment, we've included a new amendment to recover additional leave days for vacations and own affairs, which will increase according to the official's seniority, something that they had and which they now do not have. With regard to Chapter II which talks about mobility, amend Law 4/2013 of 30 May 2013 on public transport of persons in Galician tourism vehicle. What they do in this amendment, what the Government does, we understand, is to leave a law of 2013, specifically a law of May 2013, and they intend to remove competence from the municipalities of this matter. So we've made several amendments to avoid this. We also make a substitution amendment that extends social and non-profit-initiative entities, the condition of complementary private transport when certain requirements are met that are set out in the rule itself. With regard to Chapter III, "Living", two aspects of Law 8/2012, of June 29, of Galicia's residence, two changes that we share. A first is a modification of a slight infringement, for not registering a dwelling in the empty housing census. And the second, which we believe is more silent and important, which I repeat we share with the Government, which is the ability for the municipalities to expropriate in a forced manner, for reasons of social interest, and to do the appropriate works provided for in article 10.1.b of Law 49/1960, of horizontal property. Even if we're in accordance with this rule, we have doubts about the legal legality of this rule, and we understand that you should be given a tour, for a simple reason. If a council makes an expropriation on the basis of this rule and then the courts tell you that this rule cannot change this matter because it's a matter of state competence, we'd be putting the Town Councils into trouble. So I hope that the legal services will turn him around and see that this doesn't happen that way. Also in Chapter VIII, "Social Services", one creates the single electronic social history, but we were concerned that in the creation of this single electronic social history there was no public word anywhere, which was of course a concern in which we were more calmer, because in the P.O., the majority group accepted that this electronic social history cannot be privatized, and therefore be public. I repeat, something that I think was fundamental and that now, from our point of view, improves this rule that we are now going to adopt here. We were unable to reach agreement in the case of our amendment to prevent equipment intended to provide residential services for persons with disabilities from serving under 16 years of age. Something that concerns us, and we understand from now on that it could be significantly improved. We are also told that the People's Group has been on the subject, in fact attempted to make a transaction that was subsequently withdrawn, Amendment No. 5 from the People's Party. However, zero which is a subject of sufficient silence and of sufficient importance for us to analyze it. And finally, and to finish, I don't want to end up without making reference to the last fourth layout. We are talking about the amendment of Law 9/2011, of 9 November, of the public media of audiovisual communication in Galicia. With this provision what's actually done, what's going to happen, is that the director general of Galician Radio and Television will remain at his sine die post by law. I mean, what we're going to give here is a law appointment to a person in charge. Today the president of the board said it here, told the spokesman of our group, that we had to negotiate. I fully agree with this that the president of the board said, and I think we have a subject here to negotiate and to reach agreements. I believe that the Director General of Galician Radio and Television has to name it, I have to name this Parliament, and in our amendment we ask it to be done for a majority of two-thirds, and, in case we fail to reach an agreement, then for a majority of three-fifths. As I told them, I think we have a good example here to be able to negotiate. I hope this negotiation will come to an end, and more and more thanks.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u124	Thank you very much, Mr. Santín. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr. Pedro Puy Fraga has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u125	Thank you very much, Madam President, for this last occasion when you give me the floor. Well, as we have just heard from the reading of the Commission's ruling, in the accompanying Act, in the Law on Administrative and Tax Measures, the 11 amendments proposed by the People's Group were accepted, we accepted 2 of the PSOE and 2 of the Joint Group. There was one that was adopted by consensus, further improved the rule with various technical amendments, and I would also like to thank not only this general predisposition with the technical consensus amendments and with the tone of the debate in the Phoenician Parliament and the Commission, but also to thank that two new transactions that we propose in this last phase of budget approval, which are transactions on Amendment No. 13 of the Joint Group for a new drafting of Articles 31 and 32, which basically adapt to a regulation which has been transposed of a basic nature while we dealt with this norm, and at the same time harden the sanctions to electricians who do not apply them, that do not make the readings according to actual consumption. And on the other hand, in this case with the AGE Group, about its amendment number 4, which amends Article 18a, where what is done is to exclude the spas; therefore, those who use mineral-medicine and non-other waters, of the payment of a sanitation rate that could hinder their operation. Therefore, I thank this debate, which has allowed you to improve a law which precisely because of its complexity, because you may need a process that is constructive for your improvement. And I also want to say about the administrative measures that go in this law, that there are some that are relevant, and that I would like to point out, even if it's in a numbering, for the purposes that we know we're approving issues that allow us to make better budgetary management and better use of public resources, or even make policies that improve certain social groups. For example, economic management is introduced for results related to the approval of the Strategic Plan. I think it's fundamental in Galicia. We have already discussed this with the opposition groups, and in particular the Socialist Party is active in supporting budgeting for counterstable results. We introduced the single electronic social history. This is fundamental to being able to manage social resources well; to be aware of all the benefits, of all the reasons that can allow a family with varied circumstances to receive; to have a better way of managing those resources and to be able to do better social justice. We also improve support for the city council mergers with this law. We establish an accident insurance in sports, and for the first time we have a legal recognition of the institutional nature of Galician sports federations. And, of course, in relation to public employees, we recovered days of old, according to a social agreement that he made with the unions. The extra payment is recovered – as the president said this morning – from 2012. Only three autonomous communities do so at this rate, among other things, because it's the three that have met the deficit criteria and can do so. And it also recovers by 1%, for the first time since they were removed by 5% in the previous national Socialist Government. It's the first time there's a climb, which is not enough to recover purchasing power, but which, of course, is also a sign that the containment path has been modified so far. And I also mean, in connection with a question that has been raised about the special care of minors, that I said in writing and I said in committee that we are open to any amendment to this article that makes it clear that it is that minors who cannot be treated better in another center may be in an adult center. Only those. It's not about taking minors who can be treated as minors in a traditional center, but about younger people in a very extreme situation, which, therefore, makes them better to be in a specific adult centre of disabilities than to be in another center. That's our intention, and you can believe that and not the other is the objective of this rule. Therefore, since no better writing has come about, let's keep it. In relation to CRTVG, finally, after hearing all this year that we had to put the law into effect as quickly as possible, we did it with the utmost responsibility. I agree to negotiate with the Director General of Galician Television. I hope that we will do so in January and not in March, but in fact it is up to this House to negotiate. And the government, responsibly, once last December 3rd has already signed the Decree of extinction of the Radio-Television Company and, therefore, from January 1st, the Corporation will run, what it does, responsibly, is to ensure that it has a Director General, who is the last there and who knows the house in addition. Because, if not, we could embark on a transitional history, that there was no agreement here on the Director General, and having a new corporation, with his appointed board of directors, but with all the executive charges terminated ope legis. So it seems to me that it would be irresponsible. And, surely – I insist – let us reach a quick, majority agreement, as the law marks. I said that in other parts even those of the People's Party what they did was modify the law to elect it for the most part. As always, you can see the glass half full or half empty, but here we maintain the fundamental agreement of the law, which remains elected the director general by most qualified; and you value that as you think appropriate. Anyway, the most important thing in this law is tax measures, which I want to stop a little more. As you know, yesterday I justified that fiscal measures incorporating the state of budget expenditure have, on the one hand, expansive consequences, in a situation where we want to reinforce the creation of employment and the growth of the Greek economy. And, on the other hand, they have a clear redistributive component; hence a clear social component. Of course, I, Mrs. Díaz, will send you Airef's report. See if you read it and see there that next year Galicia can spend more on tax cuts. And that's it! And I'm not going to talk about the experts you're quoting me, which are very bright, but I'm telling Airef that he'll be out of discussion; because if we no longer agree on the referee – an referee who just put the central government broth, on the other hand, the PP – because we can't move forward. So, the result of these policies is that the Union will leave in the hands of citizenship around EUR 140-150 million, which joins the 84 that, as a result of the IRPF downturn that the state will apply next year, add a total of about EUR 240 million of direct liquidity to the hands of families. At the same time, succession taxes are amended and abolished – as you know – taxes that record heritage transmissions in rural areas when they affect agricultural land use. Yesterday he was criticized again today, and I was thinking that, when we started the budget debate, one of his first – and I think it was the last in relation to the budgets – the spokesperson for AGE, Mr. Beers, said that these budgets were a respite of what we've been asking for many years and that now they do because there are elections. And then he didn't follow that line because he realized, recognizing the truth, that we're in budget budgets that go up and that, at the same time, they're expansive because taxes go down. By the way, in line with what all the opposition asked us to do when certain taxes were raised, for example, the IRPF. From there, there was a change, and the whole opposition – including AGE – what it says is that we are doing the same thing forever, when it is obvious that it is not. And it could be more, in Mr. Beiras' opinion, but at the entrance he spoke of riveting and no longer spoke to say anything else. And from there they start to discuss concepts that I think they are... I thank the socialist spokesman who didn't do it, because there he shows, at least -- I don't know if he gets into the category of brilliant, I know that he doesn't -- what every normal economist understands, which is that a scale that lowers the type to the lowest incomes and goes up to the highest, and that also introduces two more steps, is more progressive. You may agree at that level of progressivity, the PSOE is not; they want to climb even higher the scale, and leave it as we raise it down. You want to change the progressiveity because what you want is to raise the income tax to all incomes, including the lowest, and to do it significantly. But the obvious fact is that there is progressiveness, and there is even more progressiveness than when the Socialist Party ruled, and they already say the data. 70% of the taxpayers in Greece pay between 5% and 4% less, from 12,450 to 17,707 euros, as a result of which they will pay with the addition of fiscal reform in the state and Galicia. If we reach 92%, the decrease is lower as the steps of 3% and 1% advance. So it's a significantly more progressive discount, where those who earn the least pay less, much less, but, curiously, also those who earn the most pay more in 2016 than they paid in 2011; a year, by the way, where there was a crisis; a year, by the way, where the principles of fiscal justice I guess they wouldn't have varied much with regard to this year. From there, we have a number of amendments. Yesterday Mr. Sánchez said some curious things. For example, as many people applied, it couldn't be progressive. That's simply something that doesn't make any sense; in technical terms, it's a fool, and forgive me for saying so. Because if you lower the tax to 92% that earns less, and you get it to 8% that earns more, of course, you're doing a progressive reform. It can be progressive by lowering tax to a lot of people, that's elementary. And curiously, in relation to this, you came again to talk here about the effect of the retentions, and I'll see if I can make it clear. No shine, obviously, but I'll see if I can make it clear. The State applies the retention to the IRPF by duplicating its own tariff, therefore, if in Galicia, for example – which is the case – the first tranche holds the State, and as a result of the state rule, what it does is a retention of 9.5%, and the Board has a rate of 9.5%, the State adds the two, doubles its own, and therefore the retention that the State carries out next year to the Greek taxpayer is exactly the same as it is going to leave when it has to make the declaration in 2017. Instead, if we put the AGE tariff, what would happen would be the following. This gentleman wouldn't pay 9.5 in the autonomic fare, he would pay 11.5 in the autonomic tariff, but the state would take 9.5 away, because it's the result of double its tariff. What would the result be? That a taxpayer who earned 2,500 euros, with our reform coincides exactly with the retention he has to enter. If we apply the AGE rate, what would happen is that, when I had to make the statement in 2017, I would have to pay, and so that's when those revenues would be charged. And now they say that we do exactly the opposite, that what we're doing is we leave duty. But if it's the opposite! What you're doing with your amendments is leaving the citizen's duty, creating the illusion that next year's taxes are not paid, and when the statement comes, he has to make the difference. Well, I understand that you say it not because you don't want to understand it, because Mr. Lago Peñas, Mr. Manuel, wrote the opposite. And I, whenever I wish, meet you and Mr. Lago Peñas to see if we agree or not. But besides, the incoherence that you have with regard to tax policy is so impressive that it turns out that I have here – because my memory does tell me enough, but not enough – what you all said when the Government of Mariano Rajoy, because Spain broke, had to raise the tax on income. So they were talking about theft, putting their hands in the pocket of the working class, of the working class, that 80% of the income tax recorded the wages of the work, that we were exploiters of the working class and that we left the rich without touching. Well, it turns out that then the rise – according to your data – what you said, was 296 euros on average. Now we're going down 400 euros, we've forgotten about the working class, it's almost twice as much of what's going down with the average one, and it turns out it's a smoldering. Well, I, as you will understand, if I have a salary of 12,500 euros – and before anyone says anything, I've had them much lower in my life – and they pay me 600 euros less to tax on income tax – which is what we do to the People's Group – I think it's a significant amount and it's not an alms. But you're able to let a quantity be a theft when it's against it, but when it's in favor, twice as much is a alms, and to me this seems impossible to explain. [[Applause]] In the end, what is the summary of the tax system after the crisis in Galicia? IRPF is more progressive, Mrs. Díaz. We have the most progressive wealth tax than at the beginning of the People's Party Government. We have committed a 20% increase with the Socialist Group for three or four exercises, and we have put the same rate as you -- the United Left and the Socialist Party -- in Andalusia. And by the way, you said that the only direct tax that I had in Junta was income tax, and I remind you -- I told you many years ago -- that wealth tax is a direct tax, that taxes on wealth, and we have the same thing that he put on the left with you in Andalusia. Thus, successions are more progressive, although it is less paid, because we understand that the family heritage from EUR 400,000 must be preserved, as a way of capitalizing middle and middle-class families...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u126	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u127	...so, you'd have to see who believes in progressiveity. They lower taxes in the state, the IRPF collection in Galicia rises by 2% and the collection by 10%. We are, ladies and gentlemen, in the virtuous circle I said yesterday, which is the opposite of the vicious circle that you left us: less activity, less taxes, less spending capacity, deterioration of public services. Who defends public services? Whoever enters the virtuous circle: more work, more taxes, more ability to finance public services. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u128	Finish it, Mr. Puy, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u129	And I'll leave it, if there's time later. You also amend the suppression of deductions, and never specify whether they are those of birth or reception, whether they are those of numerous families...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u130	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u131	...if they're child care, if they're disabled, if they're the usual housing acquisition by young people, if they're talking about the IRPF, and so on. Finally, we believe that this debate accompanies, as the Socialist spokesman said, a fiscal policy appropriate to the situation, and that it will strengthen growth and job creation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u132	Thank you very much, Mr. Puy. Round of the groups to be defined on the amendments kept by the others. [[Pause.]] Joint Group. Mrs. Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u133	I was very attentive to Mr. Puy's speech, to see if he convinced me. I said, I'll pay attention, see if you can convince me on this IRPF scale. [[Murmurs.]] Because you didn't succeed, you still seem unfair because you don't compensate, you're not proportional to the retentions that are made on the basis of profits, you're not. [[Murmurs.]] It's not the same 300 euros for those who earn 100,000 than 25 euros for what they earn 1,000; that is, the ratios are not the same or the damage it causes. So if I agree to make it progressive, but I think there should be more strata and retentions should go according to income. So I'm going to support all the opposition initiatives that are going to increase that progression and make it more fair. Mr. Puy said, moreover, that he demonstrated this bill and the budgets that can be done more with less. I'll give you the reason, look! I won't even discuss it! But if you can do more with less, how much would you do with more? And this country has problems like having to do a lot more and therefore needs more. What seems tremendous to me is that the Government says: let's do more with less, and with what we do we get to them; and to those who don't get to it, there's their life and it's taken care of! That's the speech of the People's Party, so I think it's a mistake this tax reduction at a time with so many social emergencies and so much economic precariousness. The same is true of the tax on successions and donations. I will also support the amendments that go so far as to set limits; until it can be a help to people who cannot take on a succession, and when there is an excess of meaningless profits there. I will also support tax on large commercial areas. He said that yesterday in the debate, he's betting on the big shopping malls where what goes there is multinational, and our local trade, our Greek trade, stays outside and the streets of our abandoned cities. So it also affects the hospitality of our cities. I will also support the tax on bank deposits, the reduction of hydrocarbon taxes and the valuation of real estate, issues that are already reflected in judgments and that we follow the same way. That's why they don't comply with the rule, knowing they're going to lose the trial, and they're unable to approve the amendments that go that way. What do you mean? I will support amendments that coincided with the entire opposition: in the return of the labour rights of employees and public employees, the replacement rate – which if I did not put it as amended in this bill was in the Budget Act – and also all the amendments that are intended for the care of minors. The ones I presented to minors in juvenile boarding schools, and the ones that refer to dependents in adult care centers. And I don't understand what these cases of minors can't be treated in juvenile centers. I don't know what kind of minors we're talking about, what kind of problem these minors have to have to send them to another kind of center. It also says that under the authority of the body with disabilities. I think, in any case, the criterion had to come by a group of professionals. Not the organ's criterion of competence, but the professionals who have direct contact with that family, with that minor, and who know and can decide more fairly what he's most interested in. I will also support the amendments that go against, one, from this merger without more of the municipalities, as if it were something natural, when the natural realm is the region; and, of course, that still above they can give in to the management of minimum compulsory services to citizenship to Members, these obsolete, anti-democratic institutions and that it doesn't make any sense to continue to maintain, against the natural tendency that are the districts, which are the metropolitan areas, which is how it really works. And, like, to pass all the support amendments as well, all the amendments that go in the direction of eliminating the fourth final provision, which is of course a maneuver to maintain control of Radio-Television. And by the way, I'm just announcing that I'm going to ask for a separate vote on Amendment 9 of AGE on Reganosa. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u134	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. Parliamentary Group of the BNG. Mr. Jorquera.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u135	Thank you, Madam President. I have to admit that a problem with parliamentaryism is that sometimes it's very boring. More than contrast of ideas and positions, there is a cross of monologues. And I think it's obvious when we talk about tax measures, because we are discussing tax measures in depth in the entire process of budgets. Let us debate it again, without going further, yesterday, both in the debate on amendments to the sections and in the debate on amendments to the articulated. We are debating it again today, because many of the tax measures accompanying these budgets are included in the Tax and Administrative Measures Act. The arguments are repeated but we do not understand each other, so I will reiterate the arguments I have already expressed in the committee debate. Look, Mr. Puy, the IRPF, by definition, is a progressive tax, something else is to discuss whether the reforms you introduce are increasing progressiveity or not; we think not. Another thing is to discuss, therefore, whether it's progressive enough in the model that you introduce: we think it's not. But there's also a problem, and that's the bottom line. Since you govern, the impact of indirect taxes has increased, which do not distinguish depending on the taxpayer's income, in the tax system as a whole, in the total volume of what is collected. To the extent that now, with the tax reforms that you introduce, what you do is you touch direct taxes, whether income or wealth, you introduce discounts, but you don't touch indirect taxes, the result is that the tax system as a whole clearly loses progressiveity, and therefore loses equity in the distribution of tax burden. But look at you, Mr. Puy, look at you, Mr. Counsellor, since you are making tax rebates the great claim of these budgets and the Law of accompanying tax and administrative measures, I ask you to record in the minutes, since you are doing this the great claim, that you today will vote against leaving without effect the tax on hydrocarbons that was approved in the budgets of the year 2014. That is in the record that they will vote against leaving that rise in the tax of hydrocarbons without effect. And I ask you to record that you will vote against the fact that in the revision of the value allocated to immovable property, assessments are carried out in a motivated manner in each particular case, as, of course, many judicial resolutions are required; which is set out in the Minutes. Mr. Puy said textually that the People's Group expressed its willingness to reconsider the fact that there could be smaller dependents in larger centres if opposition groups would come up with proposals. It is only that we approach them, Mr Puy, we present all the opposition groups amended in this regard. You accept the amendments, you accept any of them. CRTVG. Mr. Pedro Puy appeals to consensus. Look, there was a consensus, although the BNG Parliamentary Group did not participate in that consensus. There was a consensus, in which the People's Group and the Socialist Group participated, to pass the Galician Audiovisual Media Act, which states that CRTVG's director-general will have to be appointed with a reinforced majority of two-thirds; which states that the board of directors and general management continue to exercise their functions until the appointment of the governing bodies of the CRTVG Corporation, something, gentlemen of the Popular Group, has already taken place. That was the consensus that was pre-established. And now you unilaterally, with the change they introduce, tell us that the Director General can continue in the exercise of his functions until the CRTVG corporation starts its public service provision activity on radio and television, and they add that, if the Director General was not elected at that time, the exercise of his functions will be transiently corresponding to the person who was the owner of the company's general management. I mean, unilaterally you charge yourself that you have to be elected by a qualified two-thirds majority, and unilaterally you extend indefinitely in functions to the Director General, against what the law established. You have a way to find the really curious consensus! If this isn't trying to hit a partisan hand at CRTVG to perpetuate the partisan control over a public radio station that was supposed to be everyone's, even beyond this legislation, in the next legislation...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u136	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u137	...that God will come and see him. I conclude by saying that we will support the vast majority of the amendments tabled by the rest of the opposition groups. We believe that there is a clear background match between the various amendments tabled by the opposition groups. And, of course, we have ratified our total rejection of this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u138	Thank you very much, Mr. Jorquera. Parliamentary Group of the Left Galician Alternative. Mrs. Díaz, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u139	Mr. Puy, I don't know if this is a frontal, bunker, deaf dialogue... is that I don't know what it is anymore. What's true is that we've been arguing for months on the same lines of reasoning for nothing and practically nothing. And I'll set an example for you, Mr. Puy. Yes, laugh, but I'm going to set an example for you. Look, this voicer told the Commission – and look at the intervention, to see how it was – that the proposal you made about people with functional diversity of some kind, being smaller, was a barbarity according to our techniques or techniques. You in the Commission told us: there is no inconvenience, let's make a proposal. Mr. Puy, we've arrived today, it's not a drafting proposal problem, it's that they don't want to change it. Because as a result of changing that clear proposal it has economic consequences, Mr Puy. So, if it's a matter of writing, let's stop for a minute, let's take a break and fix this; the problem is that it's not true that political will, Mr. Puy. I insist, if it's a drafting problem, let's go out for a moment, as we always do, and write that proposal. On the contrary, they have no political will to change this – I insist –, qualified as barbarity by professionals who attend this matter. So, I don't know if it's frontal or bunker, but of course it's completely safe deaf dialogue. Secondly, Mr. Puy, you can say whatever you want. You've come to say here, in respect of that tale that you set up 400,000 euros, that we're talking about middle class or lower middle class. Mr. Puy, the sociological discussion about the middle class is very interesting, but if we're talking about a 400,000 euro heritage, we're talking about low middle class, I don't think you're serious, I'm telling you honestly. No, really isn't, really isn't, because I don't know if you know what's happening to people. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I don't know if you know they challenge people because you can't even pay rent, I don't know if you know! And I don't know if you know that the People's Party's proposals are to pay you two bills of light. You know? Did you hear the president today in the morning? Two light receipts. And I don't know if you know, too, and I'm going to take this opportunity to explain to you that this rule of social rent is the first condition that you can't have debts, Madam. Something as impossible as a person who attends social rent is that he goes because he has debts. Your social policy is that you put a poor man at your table now that we're at Christmas tomorrow night. But with two receipts, poverty is not fixed in this country, while we're hot here. But there is poverty, Madam, there is poverty, okay? Yeah, because you're talking to me, and as you're talking to me, I'll take this opportunity, okay? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And if not, put a poor man on his table. You're also illustrious, of course you are! Then, policies of the People's Party, expanding budgets and these tax measures for a year. Almost the electoral career, for a year, to try to do what they wanted to do in the generals. And no matter what they do, no matter what they do because no one believes them. A state budget that's a trap, that we're going to have an adjustment plan of 10 billion euros and nobody believes them. And this is more than that, expansive for a year. Welcome card, even the name is embarrassing, please! Even the name is embarrassing, who are being expelled from this country thousands of human beings. Man, what is this? Welcome to whom? Oh, my God! And then – I feel Mr Puy is not there – indeed, of course, the problem is that we do not agree, of course not!, neither in bonuses nor in deductions. Counsellor, there are two tax holes in the state tax system: one is tax fraud, about 70,000 million euros; and another tax hole that we have is the bonuses, 40 billion euros. That's the problem of this country. We have drawn into the taxation of societies similar to the European average, the problem is that the bonuses that the People's Party actually incorporates do irreality in other countries. That's the problem! So, absolute discrepancy, of course, absolute discrepancy! And, Mr. Puy – although absent – if you want to change that article, don't worry, that we are going to the opposition voices and do an alternative writing. The problem is that it costs money and they won't change it, even if it's a barbarity in professional terms. Nothing more and thank you very much. [[Applause]] Sorry, with regard to the amendments to the opposition, we are going to support them.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u140	Socialist Group. Mr. González Santín.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u141	Thank you, President. First of all, thank you for the opposition groups' support for our amendments and also announce that we will support the opposition groups' amendments. Obviously, they're not coincidental, but we understand that the background and what these amendments are looking for. We therefore make this support explicit. When we start discussing the Budgets Act, because – I repeat – this is still a debate on the Budgets Act – which, by the way, is already very much debated – what we always look for in the Socialist Group is that taxes are fair and that they are redistributive. That's what we're looking for with our tax system, so, for example, the amendment we made to the IRPF. In our amendment, we only affected income of more than 60,000 euros, the rest of which were left the same. Mr. Puy told me in his speech that, of course, opposition groups criticize everything. That last year, when they went up taxes, we criticized that they went up; when they went down, we criticized that they went down, but it's just that what we're criticizing is neither rising nor coming down, but precisely progressiveity. We have to do an exercise that I think is good for all, and the Government should do it, a reflection. And the question is, these last years of tax system that has led us to this society, to the Greek society? Is this Greek society fairer? Is it less fair? Is this Greek society more equal or more unequal? If we look at the equality rates, we see that this society is more unequal than it was a few years ago. So something is failing, and I think something has to be corrected. And I hope you go along the way to increase tax progressiveity. We also share with the rest of the groups who need income to finance public services, so we support amendments from some groups that are consistent with our own, although we do not do so explicitly here in the Accompanying Law, but if we do so in the Budget Law, as can be the commented tax on large areas or the tax assignment on bank deposits; a assignment we ask, which we have unanimously agreed on in the Commission 3rd of this Parliament, and which, of course, will lead us to what we can raise by this concept. But what you can't forget is that we don't pick up directly because we don't want to put this tribute here in our community. Also – and returning to the topic of special care for minors – I share what the spokesperson for AGE said. I am totally open, with the rest of the spokespersons of the groups, to modify this rule, to reach an agreement with this norm; all we have to have is will to do so. I hope there's this will, because we're finally talking about people who need the most, precisely, public help, who are the under 16 years of age. Look, I – and to finish – also want to tell you that we will support the two amendments that have been made here today, the transactions that have been made with the People's Party; both with the Joint Group – article 31 (13) of the Joint Group, because we believe it is good that, for example, electricity companies will charge on the basis of real readings. But we also want to say that the Industry Council would have to take action and control all the measurements of electrical companies because we know – and you know – that many electrical companies are not fulfilling their obligation to bill what they really are doing. And we will also support the other amendment here, that of the AGE to Article 18, to exclude the spas from the payment of the sanitation fee. To finish by just telling you one thing, Mr. Puy, about CRTVG. Look, obviously there was a consensus -- the spokesperson for the BNG said it, but now you've changed the consensus -- yes, yes, Mr. Puy. [[Mr. Puy Fraga pronounces words that are not perceived.]] You're now, with this legislative change, they have the sart for the mango, and I think that's not the best way to start a negotiation. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u142	Thank you very much, Mr. Santín. People's Parliamentary Group. Mr. Puy Fraga has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u143	Thank you, Madam President. The first thing I want to make clear is that from the first day on, in relation to the care specializing in minors, I've been asking for alternative texts. In fact, the People's Group has come forward with an amendment which has withdrawn. And to you I said in writing and in commission – in writing you were not, Mr. Fajardo – and what we ask was – because they have technicians who say how best to attend – that they give us a writing. You're what you have are fines of suppression, now they don't discuss intentionality, because we're clear about intentionality. In relation to the debate, I mean, Mr. Jorquera, that progress is not to think whether or not there is progress or not, whether there is fever or not, because progressiveness is a relationship between two magnitudes... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u144	Mr. Beers.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u145	No, you're telling the crap, obviously.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u146	Excuse me a moment, Mr. Puy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u147	Progressiveity is a relationship between two magnitudes...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u148	Excuse me a moment...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u149	...an economic one.....which is the basis... [[Mr. Beiras Torrado pronounces words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u150	Mr. Beers, please don't have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u151	...and the other is the quota you pay. And as the base evolves, it evolves the quota, and that magnitude, which is mathematical, so you can't think about it. There may be more progressivity, there may be less progressivity, but there is progressivity or there is no progressivity. The fact is that what is opinable is how many there are. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] We know that the mixed group lady wants the autonomous tariff to reach 50%, which would have to be added to her 20 or 30 percent of the state, with which we would be faced with a confiscation tax. And what's also not opinable are the effects that have too much progress on economic growth, especially when we're in a phase of recession with idle resources. Therefore, leaving money through income tax, citizens stimulate consumption, especially when reform is progressive, lowering the lowest levels. I don't know if Mr. Beiras also wants to go up to those who earn 12,450 euros.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u152	Sir Beers!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u153	Mr. Beers, you have a call to order, and sit down!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u154	You have a call to order, and sit down!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u155	You want the second call to order?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u156	It's just that you've already spoken. He signed a few amendments. I'm talking about your amendments, man!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u157	No, demagoxy... we're going to talk about demagoxy, because politics...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u158	No dialogue, Mr. Puy. Not dialogue.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u159	No, but I want to talk. If you leave me Mr. Beiras, who never comes, and when he comes, you have to make note, which is his tactics. But, of course! [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u160	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u161	Second call to order, Mr. Beers. I feel like I have to open the calls to order with you. Second. And the next one, you know what I'm going to do. [[Murmurs.]] Go on, Mr. Puy. Go on.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u162	I like it, rather than talking about old or new politics, as it is now, as it was talked about before left or right, what we're seeing in some emerging political forces is that what's applicable is the old aristothetic distancing between democracy and demagoxia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u163	Sir Beers!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u164	Demagogy understood as the adulations of the people, which excite feelings by resorting to prejudices, emotions, and, of course, by generating false expectations, and for that, what they do is resort to fallacies. I want to say that there is a fact, which is the IRPF, more progressive in Galicia today, in 2016, than it was in 2011; heritage tax is more progressive than it was in 2011, and you keep talking about rich people forgetting a data. You quoted the Republic of France, which the richest 1% of Spain accumulates 15% of wealth – which is bad – but in Germany it is 24% and in France it is 18%, much more, also with a left-wing government. [[Murmurs.]] They say we have to fight fraud, and they forget that in Spain, in 2012-2015, the People's Government has managed to raise 5 billion euros more than in the previous period, to total more than 41,000 million euros of fraud. [[Murmurs.]] And that in Galicia it's 181 million in the last year, only with the taxes that are handed over, although it's better to talk about fiscal amnesties that weren't, and also... They weren't, Mr. Beers, they allowed to bloom many millions of euros that are now taxing. [[Mr. Beiras Torrado pronounces words that are not perceived.]] It's also good, when it comes to budget compliance, as Mrs. Díaz did, to talk about smoke, and when you bring a report from Airef that says Galicia is going to lower taxes and be able to spend more and, at the same time, meet the deficit. Because you can't understand that you can create more jobs, therefore more activity, so you can have more taxes by lowering types and, therefore, you can better provide and guarantee essential public services. [[Applause]] Faced with the evidence that before the Left Government Galician Board spent 69 euros on social policy, of every 100, and now it's close to 80 euros, with which in dependence, instead of 126 million euros, the Board spends 324; when in Risga, instead of 22, it spends 52; when even in what they said we had no heart, we're absorbing in the budget this year, without breaching the deficit, 75 million euros so that 50% of people with hepatitis C are already vaccinated, it's more effective to come here to scream, as Mr. Beers does, and to say that we have neither soul nor heart. We have soul, heart and all that we have to have, Mr. Beiras. [[Applause]] In relation to public services, in view of the evidence of the official data I presented to them yesterday, where I demonstrated that education services and health services are in Galicia in much greater public proportion than arranged in relation to the average of the autonomous communities, you come here to do demagogy, to say that we are privatizing everything – things that do not exist – and that we give things to those who don't know who. [[Applause]] [[Murmurs.]] And, finally, today we approve the law that accompanies the recovery budgets...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u165	It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u166	...and in view of the evidence that budgetary policies have led to growth in Galicia, and that in turn allow for reducing income taxes, successions and heritage transmissions in rural areas, and at the same time spending more on social spending and investment, and at the same time reducing the deficit and thus also reducing debt, the effector and the demagogic...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u167	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u168	...it's to keep nothing changed, that there are cuts, that nothing improved, to quote the Bárcenas... and the end of the demagogy is to say that the problem is that Juan Pueblo is out there and he doesn't believe us. You see, the demagogic speech – Aristotle said – leads to authoritarianism. That's where you want to take us.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u169	Thank you very much, Mr. Puy. Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u170	I, with the best democratic spirit, will celebrate the adoption of budgets which, with the measures adopted today, will give a decisive impetus to alleviate the effects that the crisis has left us and build a better Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u171	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u172	And with the best Christmas spirit, let me wish all your lords a Merry Christmas. Thank you. [[Applause]] Voting of legislative texts
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u173	Voting of legislative texts. We begin with the vote on the Ditam and the amendments to the Ditam drawn up by Commission 1st, Institutional, General Administration, Justice and Home Affairs, on the draft law on transparency and good governance. Let's start with the vote on the compromises... [[Mr Prado Cores asks for the floor.]] What do you want the word for, Mrs. Prado? [[Mrs. Prado Cores speaks words that are not perceived.]] Yes, but I've got here... I'm going to read, and if any is missing, I'm glad they remember me. First of all, traded amendments. Amendments Nos 17 and 57 to Articles 4.4 and 47 of the European Parliamentary Group on the Nationalist Block, and Amendment No 117 to Article 30a of the Joint Parliamentary Group. Those are the transactions I have. So, if you like, we vote them together. Joint vote on the amended G.P. paragraphs 17 and 57. of the Nationalist Block Galicia to Articles 4.4 and 47 and to Amendment No 117 of the G.P. Jointly with Article 30a), maintained in accordance with the opinion drawn up by Commission 1a, Institutional, General Administration, Justice and Internal Affairs, on the draft law on transparency and good governance. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 69. The voting is positive. These transactions are therefore approved unanimously.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u174	We then vote on amendments to the Joint Parliamentary Group contained in documents Nos 44973 and 44986. We vote. Voting G.P. amendments. Joint, contained in documents Nos. 44973 and 44986, and maintained by Commission No. 1a, Institutional, General Administration, Justice and Home Affairs, on the draft law on transparency and good governance. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 30; votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u175	We then vote on amendments by the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego contained in document No. 44955. Voting G.P. amendments. the Galego Nationalist Block, contained in document 44955, and maintained to the dictation drawn up by Commission 1st, Institutional, General Administration, Justice and Interior, on the draft law of transparency and good governance. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 28; votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u176	We voted for amendments to the Parliamentary Group of the Galga de Left, document No. 44951. [[Mr. Jorquera Caselas asks for the floor.]] Yes, Mr. Jorquera? Give Mr. Jorquera a voice, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u177	To request a separate vote on Amendment No 9.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u178	We voted for Amendment No 9 from the Parliamentary Group of the Gaga de Left Alternative. Amendment No 9 to the G.P. of the Alternative Glaga de Left, contained in document 44951, to the dictation prepared by Commission 1st, Institutional, General Administration, Justice and Interior, on the draft law of transparency and good governance. The voting resulted in the following: votes in favour, 23 votes against, 40; abstentions, 7. The result of the vote is negative. This amendment is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u179	We voted for the rest of the amendments of the Parliamentary Group of the Gaga de Left Alternative. Voting G.P. amendments. of the Alternative Glaga de Left, except for number 9, contained in document 44951, to the dictation prepared by Commission 1st, Institutional, General Administration, Justice and Interior, on the draft law of transparency and good governance. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 30; votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u180	We then vote on the amendments of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia. First of all, I am asked to vote on Amendment No 14 to the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Amendment No 14 to the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, contained in document 44938, to the dictation drawn up by Commission 1st, Institutional, General Administration, Justice and Interior, on the draft law of transparency and good governance The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 70. The voting is positive. It is therefore adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u181	And then we vote on the rest of the amendments of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Voting G.P. amendments. of the Socialists of Galicia, except for number 14, contained in document 44938, to the dictation drawn up by Commission 1st, Institutional, General Administration, Justice and Interior, on the draft law of transparency and good governance. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 28; votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u182	We are voting on the committee's opinion, but first of all it is up to the vote on the last second bis provision, which amends Law No 6/84 of 5 June 1984 of the People's Valedor, which, in accordance with Rule 127.3 of the Parliament's Rules of Procedure, requires an absolute majority vote. Voted on the last provision of Ditame's second bis drawn up by Commission 1st, Institutional, General Administration, Justice and Internal Affairs, on the draft law on transparency and good governance. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 55; abstentions, 14. The voting is positive. It is therefore approved.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u183	Finally, we are voting on the Commission's ruling on the amendments that have been made and on the amendments it has previously accepted, except for the last provision that has already been voted on. We vote. Voting of the ruling drawn up by Commission 1st, Institutional, General Administration, Justice and Internal Affairs, with the amendments negotiated and accepted previously, except the last provision already voted on, on the draft law on transparency and good governance. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 55; abstentions, 14. The voting is positive. Accordingly, the Law of transparency and good governance is passed.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u184	We then vote on the dictates and amendments to the dictation drawn up by Commission 3rd, Economics, Budgets, on the draft law on tax and administrative measures. We voted for amendments by the Joint Parliamentary Group. We begin with the transaction with Amendment No 13, which gives new wording to Articles 31 and 32, and Amendments Nos 1 to 6, 9 to 12, 14 to 31. We're talking about the Joint Parliamentary Group. We then vote on Amendment No 13 to the Joint Group, which gives new wording to articles 31 and 32. Transaction vote with G.P. Amendment No 13. Jointly, with new wording in Articles 31 and 32, contained in document No. 44565, the Ditame drawn up by the Commission 3rd, Economics, Farms and Budgets, on the draft law on tax and administrative measures. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 70. The voting is positive. It is therefore adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u185	We then vote on the amendments to the Joint Group, document No. 44565. Voting G.P. amendments. Joint except for number 13, contained in document No. 44565, to the Ditome drawn up by Commission 3rd, Economics, Farms and Budgets, on the draft law on tax and administrative measures. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 30; votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u186	We then vote on amendments to the Galician Nationalist Block. We voted first of all on Amendment No 22, which was requested by Mr Jorquera. Amendment No 22 to the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, contained in document No. 44578, to the Ditame drawn up by Commission 3rd, Economics, Farms and Budgets, on the Bill of Tax and Administrative Measures. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 30; votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. This amendment is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u187	We voted for the remaining amendments, 1 to 21, of the Nationalist Block Galego. Vote for Amendments Nos 1 to 21 of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, contained in document No. 44578, to the Ditame drawn up by Commission 3rd, Economics, Farms and Budgets on the Bill of Tax and Administrative Measures. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 29; against, 40 votes in favour. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u188	We then vote on the amendments by the Parliamentary Group of the Gaga de Left Alternative. First of all, the transaction reached with Amendment No. 4, creating a new Article 18a. We therefore voted for this transaction first. Transaction vote with G.P. Amendment No 4. of the Alternative Glaga de Left, which creates a new Article 18a, contained in document No. 44575, to the Ditame drawn up by Commission 3a, Economics, Farms and Budgets on the Bill of Tax and Administrative Measures. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 70. The voting is positive. This transaction is therefore approved unanimously.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u189	We then vote on Amendment No 9 separately, at the request of the Joint Parliamentary Group. Amendment No 9 to the G.P. of the Alternative Glaga de Left, contained in document No. 44575, to the Ditame drawn up by Commission 3rd, Economics, Farms and Budgets on the Bill of Tax and Administrative Measures. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 22; against, 40; abstentions, 8. The result of the vote is negative. This amendment is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u190	We then vote on the remaining amendments to the Alternative Glaga de Left. Voting G.P. amendments. of the Alternative Glaga de Left, except for number 9 and number 4, contained in document No. 44575, to the Ditame drawn up by Commission 3rd, Economics, Farms and Budgets, on the Bill of Tax and Administrative Measures. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 30; votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u191	We are voting on amendments to the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, document No. 44576. Voting G.P. amendments. of the Socialists of Galicia, contained in document No. 44576, to the Ditame drawn up by Commission 3rd, Economics, Farms and Budgets on the Bill of Tax and Administrative Measures. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 30; votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u192	And finally, we voted on the Commission's dictation with the incorporation of previous transactions. Voting of the Ditame drawn up by Commission 3rd, Economics, Farms and Budgets, with the incorporation of the transactions achieved, on draft law on tax and administrative measures. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 40; votes against, 30. The voting is positive. The Opinion on the draft law on tax and administrative measures is therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u193	We suspended the session until tonight at 6:00 p.m., 4 p.m. Thank you very much. [[The session is suspended at 2:40 p.m. and resumed at 4:00 p.m.]] G.P. motion. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo, on the demands to be made by the Greek Government to the Central Government in relation to the beaches of the state-owned highways in Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u194	This motion has been tabled with an amendment by the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u195	For the defense of the motion, Mrs. Pontón has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u196	Good afternoon. We are defending today, from the Nationalist Block of Galicia, a motion that consists of four points. A first point, in which we demand that the Government of the State be asked for a reduction in the rates, both in AP-9 and in AG-53, which at least accounts for 50 per cent of those currently in existence. A second point, where we understand that it would also be necessary for this Parliament to demand that the Ministry, apart from the previous measure, apply the same discounts and advantages that have other motorways outside Galicia and that it also manages the Government of the State. A third point, where we claim that the set of workers and workers who have been suppressed over the past few years rests again, and that it is also ensured that in all cabins or at all steps where these fees are charged there is going to be someone who covers them manually – because they know their lordships that at many of these points today there is no possibility of paying by hand, there are machines that replace jobs of workers and workers. And at the same time, one last point in which we demand that a study be prepared on the legal situation of AP-9 and the legal possibilities that exist to rescue the concession for direct public management of this infrastructure. This is a motion in which we are marking a minimum position in the sense that we understand that AP-9 should be at this point a path that was free of charge. We do so, in addition, because we understand that the situation with AP-9, in particular, and also AG-53 is an aggravating for the Greeks and the Greeks, a slab for our development. It is conditioning not only safe mobility, and this is a very important fact, because I think we must collectively reflect on the serious problem and discrimination that there is – as in the case of AP-9 – a structural route that communicates to five of the seven cities of Greece, but that is a luxury article for the vast majority of workers in this country. In fact, if you see statistics on who uses AP-9, you'll see that in its vast majority of them are managers or business directives, they're the transport sector and they're also workers and workers when the cost of paying AP-9 is the company's responsibility and not the burden of their pocket. And on the other hand, those who can't and those who can't afford this highway have to travel through a track like the N-550, which has neither the characteristics nor the security features, nor the plot, nor the condition of their firm, nor is it a viable alternative; and the most serious thing is that it puts security and data in danger and condition, therefore, of an aspect that should be vital in a policy in this area. We say that the tariffs that Galicia has are an aggravation, because we have the highest rates in the Spanish state, despite having the lowest wages, and because we understand incomprehensible the policy that has been followed in this area. We must remember that political decisions have been the ones that are conditioning the situation we have today, because it was a political decision to privatize this infrastructure again, because it is a political decision that is the indiscriminate subdivision of the fees. Think if you think it's normal for AP-9's fees in the last decade to double their price. Do you think that's normal in this country? We understand that if there was any respect for the situation of people and if there was a real concern about what the consequences of that decision would not have been adopted. But we saw how during the economic crisis the state-run governments increased the fees to pay the only and only Greeks to benefit the concessionaire. So we understand that this is a policy that needs to be rectified and that it is a policy that, of course, should not continue with it. And we believe, in addition, that at this moment it's much more important, and I'm going to say why. Because there is a new legislation that will be opened in the Spanish State, and we think that on a subject that is of the utmost concern to many people it would be very important for this Parliament to have a position that – I say – is minimal, because what we are asking for here is a substantial downturn. We therefore also have a responsibility, because being in this Parliament is a responsibility in relation to decisions on the pressure we can take. Just as the Galician Union has a responsibility that it has failed. I take advantage of today, too, to say that it seems to us that the Board must also modify its role, because it is proving that in this issue it is a zero on the left. And I'm going to say why it's a zero on the left, first, because you – in this case the People's Party – have always refused to support, both here and in Congress of Deputies, any initiative that supposed to question the fees paid in AP-9 and AG-53. But they also have a responsibility, because they publicly say they want the transfer of AP-9, but then the real data where you have to request that transfer, what they say is that you confuse ruling with the headlines, and they're deceiving people. Now, from the official data published by the Central Government itself, it is obvious that during the entire past legislation that has just ended in the State, the Joint Transfer Commission has not met once. That means not only that you didn't ask for AP-9, but that you didn't ask for any transfer or do anything in the field of increasing the capacity of self-government in this country, and therefore instruments to respond to the situations and problems of the Greeks and the Greeks. And the most serious thing is that they even turn this Parliament into a paripe with decisions that we have to tell them not only they seem to disagree but clearly anti-democratic. It does not seem to us that there is a bill that has been taken into account in this Parliament two months ago and that at this moment it has not even been constituted by the Phoenician Government of that bill. And it didn't come up because there's no interest on the part of the People's Party in requesting that transfer. And the only thing you do is -- I've said it -- it's a paripé, because I think it's the best thing you can define your position on this subject: to say before elections that obviously want to demand the transfer of AP-9, but then with the specific facts what they demonstrate is that they had no interest in accelerating that transfer and that it's just a pose, but that there's actually no interest or political pressure, or they've taken it, by the way, in their electoral program, which shows what their principles are and what the credibility they have in this matter. In any case, we understand today that it would be good for this initiative to be adopted, that, as we say, part of a position of minimums which I think coincides with what most of the Greeks and the Greeks think, who consider that the fees we pay on the highways are very high, which is an abuse that has increased during the crisis, that AP-9 is amortized and requetemortized and that, therefore, it is not fair that the Greeks and the Greeks will have to pay fees for seventy-five years to finance a highway that has already been raised and has benefits that exceed the investments made in it. And we also believe that the last point of our initiative is important, and that we have a study on what the legal possibilities are; firstly, to review the terms of that sale, to see if – as in the case of this whole process – has paid priority to public interest or has given priority to particular interest. We are very clear that particular interests have been dominated and that this privatization has been against the general interest. But we want this to be a step that will allow us to walk in a direction that we think would be positive for the country. We expect, in any case, to make other assessments once we know the position of the groups. And although it would be a question for the next shift, for we are now going to accept the amendment of the Joint Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u197	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Joint Parliamentary Group. Mrs. Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u198	Good afternoon to all and to all. Well, I'll vote for this motion; I would do it even if the amendment had not been accepted, but much more by accepting that amendment. And I'm going to do it, among other things, because the Ministry of Development itself places AP-9 among the most expensive highways in the state, it's one of the few that doesn't vary its prices according to the season or times. I mean, we're victims a lot of times having to go through the AP-9 to 80 kilometers per hour or 70 kilometers per hour, or queue at the beaches, but we pay the same price, that doesn't matter at all. The increase in rates – as the BNG vocifera has already said – has been unstoppable in these years, and the only implanted bonuses affect drivers who use tele-pay and assume a covert fee. I mean, some bonuses that pose a zero risk to the dealership, which has secured the concession until 2048 in theory for Rande's expansion. Rates are true that they are expensive in both AP-9 and AG-53, but it is also true that the price differences per kilometer that exist in them do not have an explanation; so, for example, the price per kilometer in the Santiago-Ourense frame is 0.068 euros; Vigo-Pontevedra leaves at 0.140; Santiago-Lalín, 0.142; Vigo-Redondela, 0.150; or Bandeira-Lalín – which is the most expensive plot, a real theft–, 0.206, more than double the face, a real attraction! Some beaches that end up fattening the accounts of the multinationals that exploit the highways and that, for more indignation, this money goes out of Galicia. If Spain, since October of that same year, Bankia and FCC, which owns 50% of AG-53's concessionaire, had previously sent to the National Securities Market Commission the sale of 100 percent of Global Via Infrastructure shares to British investment funds; that is, the highway now belongs to British funds. The last study carried out by the Ministry of Development on the Spanish motorway sector places AP-9 as the third most popular in the state. Every day their collection in peas exceeds 300,000 euros and only enters more than AP-9 to AP-2, Zaragoza-Barcelona-Tarragona, and AP-4, Cadiz-Sevilla, which will become free in 2019, twenty-nine years before AP-9, although they belong to the same generation. The collection of AP-9 amounts to 7.6% of the total that all state concessionaires enter peas, is the twelfth in traffic intensity, and the fifth most densely densely deals with them. Last July the AP-9 closed with an average intensity of 25,870 vehicles, and in spite of the downflow of users to AP-9 it collects EUR 1 million every three days, without that preventing it from cutting down jobs, replacing staff with automatic recovery machines, while the Greeks and the Greeks suffer kilometre jams in the indifference of both the Audasa and the U.S. Senate of Galicia and the State Government. So I have nothing left but to recognize, indeed, that is a motion of minimals. You can't ask for less than this, and I'm counting on the People's Party to support you and not give us any more proof that you have the slightest interest in ruling this country and that you're willing to claim the infrastructure. Because it's not good to vote in favour of things and then not carry them out, or support them here, but then know that in Madrid they're going to vote against. And that there is not a single criticism of the People's Party of Galicia to the People's Party of Madrid for the discrimination suffered by the Greek people because of the lack of government responsibilities granted to them. I therefore hope that the People's Party will demonstrate its interest in governing Galicia by supporting this motion. Nothing else, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u199	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. Parliamentary Group of the Left Galician Alternative. Mr. Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u200	Good afternoon. We are going to support this motion, and as we have often said to AP-9 is the story of a generalized scam that has led to infrastructure privatizations in the Spanish State, privatizations made on the pretext that private management is more efficient. A statement that has never been tried with data, and I'm sorry to be repetitive. It is also a further example of the model of socialization of losses and privatization of profits, and that's what happened when Mr. Álvarez Helmets privatized AP-9 in 2003, which had previously extended the concession to 2048 with prospects at that time of growing traffic. By the way, Mr. Feijóo was a COTOP advisor at that time and I don't know what Mr. Feijóo said at that time. A Sacyr company that was made with that infrastructure that, without making investments, without changing anything, in a few years has achieved great gains by selling the concession to the American Citigroup. In addition, in this decision-making so transcendent for the society that is made in the Spanish State, which is done without a previous exercise of transparency and social debate, there is no certain information, why with data, as it was not done before the massive privatization of public enterprises, as it is not! Almost always privatized, always profitable, highways, telephone, Endesa, etc. These kinds of decisions are taken in the only way that can be made, which is in an opaque way, because if citizenship really knows what they mean, they couldn't, because it's a theft for citizenship. What is the result of the privatization of AP-9? It has already been exposed here, the most expensive road in the Spanish State, a road vital to the economic and social life of this country, and no responsibility of any kind – no politics – has been assumed for these decisions. The rates have increased by more than 60 % since 2013, a percentage that doubles the IPC in that year. In the last seven years, Audasa has gained millions of benefits that are outside the country's economic reality and that demonstrate the trigger of tariffs and fees. In a situation with an economic rationality, with that competence that they like to talk about, these benefits would be impossible, but Audasa takes advantage of its monopoly with the complicity of governments and the profitability of its capital is not normal, it is not within the limits of the reasonable, it does not move on the edge of competing companies, as it is easy to verify in official accounts. A situation of abuse of power, of monopoly, even more outrageous when analyzing the fate of these enormous benefits, which once again is the flow of capital to the foreigner. Shareholders divide each other again and again without anything going on here after the fees are lifted. So this is the reality of our country's main infrastructure, from the route that articulates from north to south of this country, is the monopoly without real alternative but from powerful financial groups that have enormous profitability and take advantage of the situation of lack of competition; therefore this motion is of justice and it is necessary for this country to end with a given loot. Guaranteed benefit, zero risk, benefits fly from the country and legal security only for large companies on a road that is already well-adjusted and on which we are caught day by day. One more reason, too, for a deal to be reached in Madrid to dislodge the People's Party of Power. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u201	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u202	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Today we are again dealing with the issue of the tariffs of state-owned highways in Galicia, in particular AP-53 and AP-9. Both of us, as we've seen over and over again, and I think we've assumed all the groups, are essential for the mobility and development of our country. AP-9 is a 219-kilometre highway, which is born in Greek Y in the north, Ferrol-A Coruña, and ends in A-55, three kilometers from Tui, three kilometers from the Portuguese border. Therefore, it is completely situated in the territory of Galicia. It begins and ends at the gates of the autonomous community of Asturias, with which it allows it to join, that we can join its journey with the cantabrian cornice, and even ends at the gates of the neighbouring country, as it is Portugal. In its long journey it channels and supports the intense traffic that binds to five of the great cities of Galicia: The Coruña, Santiago, Ferrol, Vigo and Pontevedra, and even also channels all the traffic, the entire route of the vehicles, of the villages and towns of this Atlantic strip, and in fact is called the motorway of the Atlantic. An Atlantic fringe in which more than 60 percent of the population of Greece is settled, and which also has an activity that revolves around 70 percent of our country's economic and business activity. We're talking about an absolutely essential artery, which connects, permeabilizes and articulates our territory. A strategic infrastructure vital to Galicia, as well as a fundamental instrument of economic and social reverbation in our country. And the other one, the central highway of Galicia, the AP-53, 56 kilometers walk, along with AG-53, have an important structural or structural role in the interior of Galicia. Between the two, 87 kilometers, they complete the journey Santiago Ourense, connecting the inside to AP-9, at the height of Santiago, at the height of A-52, at the height of Ourense. In this case, what is really anachronistic is that the Santiago-Ourense route, or what is the same to AP-9 and A-52, has two headlines, AP-53, State ownership, and AG-53, a Welsh highway. In any case, both state-owned highways in Galicia, AP-9 and AP-53 are very relevant in our country's daily fabric. But we must recognize that their tariff conditions of use diminish their use. I think the other groups have made it permanent. They have therefore ceased to be an added value for society, for economics and for growth, and are becoming an inescapable economic burden for families and businesses. In this sense, basically the transport of goods has been claiming continuously, on a permanent basis, that the fees it pays are inconceivable. In any case, they have an impact on products from Galicia that have to go outside. And the Ministry of Development itself places AP-9 and AP-53 as Spain's most expensive highways in its annual analysis of the sector. The report indicates that for category 3 to AP-9 vehicles it has the highest usage costs in Spain, that for category 2 vehicles it is the third most expensive in Spain and for category 1 vehicles it is the second most expensive in Spain. Thus, while the average cost in the state network is EUR 0.035 km, the cost in the AP-9 is EUR 0.162 km. The situation therefore seems to be clearly discriminatory and harmful to the Greeks and to the Greeks. And Mrs. Pontón, of course, the bill that is being presented about AP-9 did not give her the slightest doubt that depending on who governs the state will be agile or will be delayed.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u203	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u204	We have already said, I say, that if we are going to support this initiative, because we find it really interesting, really important and decisive for the management of these two motorways. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u205	Thank you, Mr. Fernández. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mr. Gomez Alonso from the scene. Give Mr. Gómez Alonso a voice, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u206	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mrs Pontón, from our parliamentary group, we wanted to congratulate you and the nationalists because after nine years of moving around the transfer of AP-9, in defence of a reduction in the rates of AP-9 and AP-53, we have to recognize that you in this session are maintaining quite intense parliamentary activity around claims that our political training has been defending for years; defending both when we were in opposition and now in government. And we also want to point out that there are other parliamentary groups that are beginning to recognize the economic importance of this motorway in the life of our country, even if it is a matter of duty, Mr Fernández said perfectly well. It rotates around the freeway of the Atlantic 70% of Galicia's economic activity. The entire Atlantic axis has been developed and therefore we are talking about a vertebrate axis that is also the central core on which all the most important connections of high-performance routes have been made, such as the Salnes highway, the Barbarian highway, Santiago-Brion, the northwest highway, the Low-Ries highway, the AP-53. I mean, we're talking about an infrastructure that remains very important for the life of our country. But, Mrs. Pontón, as you well know, all this parliamentary activity that you have carried out – we don't know whether you agree with the general elections or whether you have suddenly returned to your consciousness that it was necessary to debate and claim these issues – the truth is, Mrs. Pontón, that the majority of parliament in Spain, as you well know, has changed, therefore we are in a new political context, where the People's Party remains the most voted force, but the key is to have the Socialist Party. The Tides and Podemos will also be essential in the making of the future majority, and will also have an important role of Citizens. Well, Mrs Pontón, when we go to Madrid, we are obviously going to have to explain all these issues, and we are going to have to convince Members of the other parliamentary groups that it is necessary to transfer AP-9, that it is necessary for AP-9 to have discounts subsidized by the State and not discounts like those you have now, that it is through the telephony card and that they are bank discounts, and that it is necessary to establish a fair, homogeneous and redistributive policy of the fees of AP-9 and AP-53, as we do the Welsh through the Committee of Galicia with the two motorways that run through our territory. But also, Mrs. Pontón, we're going to have to be self-critical of what they've done in other stages of our country's governments, because it's not normal for AP-9 to have the fees that AP-53 has to consider first and second citizens. It is not normal for AP-53 to have one of the most expensive doors in every state, specifically from Flag to Lalin, as one Member said here, and instead AG-53 is free. It's not normal for the neighbors of the Roundup to pay for a door, and the neighbors who go to the Morrazo don't pay a door. It's not normal, Mrs. Pontón, and now that there's a new composition of most parliamentarians, that with the money of all the Greeks we subsidize 50% of the lifting of the beaches from Rande to Barcala, when the other users have to pay. Therefore, I believe that in this important debate, Mrs Pontón, we must also think about it. The reflection is that we do not deceive citizens, there are no high-performance pathways that are free, there are no free, there are free, there are no high-performance pathways. We have high-performance pathways that are paid through cannons, which is called shady beaches. We have other high-provisional routes and roads that are paid with own funds or either the Autonomous Community or the Union or the Ministry through citizens' taxes. And we have other concessions that are funded through the fees that they bear and that they pay the users of the highways. So, now that there is a new parliamentary majority, that you have to make new majority in the Spanish state, it would be good that we also set up this kind of reflections so that, since the state is now concerned with the Nationalist Block Galego, if you establish a more just and homogeneous system for all citizens who use the different high-performance pathways that are not only in Galicia, but in Spain. Since Mrs. Pontón will not be worthy of either the votes or the voice of our deputies, you will always be able to resort to Mrs. Díaz to defend the postulates of the Galician Nationalist Block in Congress. We will continue to defend, both in this Parliament and in Congress, and through our Members, the same ones, because we have the very clear ideas. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u207	Thank you, Mr. Gómez Alonso. Motion author group. Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u208	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The truth is, you're rocking political surrealism, because all of this is to say that they want to keep the peas that have AP-9 and AG-53. Because today what we are talking about here is what does this Parliament think? What does the German Parliament think, and therefore the 75 Members and Members who are in this House, in relation to the rates of AP-9 and AG-53? And what you're going to tell us here is that they look fair and normal to you, and that the People's Party is against the lowering of the fees paid by the Greeks and the Greeks. That's reality after all the lack of rigour with which you came here. Because look, you have a vision -- I suppose you're ill-informed, because I imagine you're not here deliberately lying in this House -- you have very bad information about what BNG is defending with the rates of AP-9 and AG-53, because this group always defended that they were a real abuse. And he's got a job behind us that's going after him, and if not, Mr. Alejandro Gómez, let's go to the minutes and check it out. It's very easy, and every time we propose to lower the rates, you vote against it, and when we propose at the Congress of Members transferring AP-9, the People's Party votes against it. And here they voted... oh, you're not from the PP, it's not going with you, it's easy!, right?, to disprove yourself because you know that you're incoherent and that you're complicit in a situation that's absolutely serious for many people. Because you come here with an argument that is very simple, sitting on a bench, and forget that for many people to take the car and have to go from Ferrol to Coruña, or from La Coruña to Santiago, or from Santiago to Vigo, it's a very serious problem, because you can't afford the money that costs that fee, or because if you pay that money, you have to dispense with other things that are very important in your life. Because 10 euros for a person are a lot, because they earn absolutely poor wages, and to you it seems normal, it seems normal to you to go cheaper from La Coruña to Madrid than to go from La Coruña to Vigo; it's the problem you have. Today we're talking about whether or not you want to lower the rates, and you're telling us that the People's Party agrees with the rates that AP-9 and AG-53 have, that's the reality of what we're talking about here today. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Because the only thing you've said is that highways actually pay citizens, either through taxes or through fees. The difference between you and us is that we understand that AP-9 should be a free track of toll, because it's already paid, first by citizens' taxes, and paid, through abusive quotas. And you're the one who's here defending that the Greeks and the Greeks continue to pay some...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u209	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u210	...absolutely abusive taxes to fatten the profits of companies. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u211	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. G.P. motion. on the initiative of Da Eva Solla Fernández on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in the field of personnel and assistance quality of public social services
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u212	No amendments were tabled to this motion. For the defense of it, Mrs. Solla has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u213	Thank you, President. Well, deaf ears made the Government warnings of danger of cuttings year after year in the Wellness Service, and deaf ears seem to be doing also in the rest of the services and counsellors. We have today, in fact, already approved budgets which, of course, go totally against the needs we have, too, in the welfare services. We have quite a high, unattended need for wellness centers on the table. And we have a terrible job situation with regard to the workers and welfare workers we have already reported on multiple occasions in this Parliament. Of course, one of their problems is the obvious non-coverage of those casualties and staff vacations, which lead to a tremendous increase in that workload that we've already reported here. Today we ask – there is a point within this motion, and this motion is the result of the interpellation that comrade Yolanda Díaz made in the past Pleno – that these turns be covered. First, because in early 2012, shortly after the beginning of this legislation, no, it was even in the previous legislation, people who had no fixed place were eliminated. It happened just as in Health, places of interinternity, and therefore what happened was an increase in the burden of work and probably a rather serious consequence for the health of workers and welfare workers. We've already commented on this in the past Pleno, that increase in casualties has caused this worsening of working conditions. But, in addition, there were some welfare shifts – which we have already reported on more occasions – that made it practically incompatible with personal life or reconciliation. You can't assume or talk about equality, or reconciliation, and then apply to workers and public workers a series of shifts that are totally inhuman. We report it here on other occasions, up to seven days in a row, three nights in a row, or even just one weekend off. All of this is the result of the abolition of Article 19 of the Fifth Collective Convention, which made workers accumulate up to 1,655 hours a year. So, we want that agreement back again, we've already moved it on other occasions, and it seems to us that if that measure is motivated by a law, which is Law 1/2012, which was theoretically temporary measures, but that according to the People's Party was indicated by the economic situation, we understand that if the People's Party itself now supports that there is a certain economic recovery, there should be no problem in suppressing this measure and re-establishing the rights of workers, except that the reality was that motivation was really a withdrawal from those rights of workers and workers and not just an economic measure. So far the People's Party has defended even those shifts and we have carried out a lot of reprimands, even in the commissions, for calling for this rule to be repealed and for the rights of workers and workers to be returned, even though the council has lost three consecutive judgments in the Coruña with this labour conflict in the High Court of Justice, referred to in these work shifts. It seems that Mr. King Varela disagrees with his own party, he is not here right now, but in the interpellation of the past Plenary moved that we could not pretend that he had done in three months what had not been done in the last few years. I mean, that really the Government recognizes that nothing has been done at all in seven years but to withdraw rights and worsen the conditions of residences and centres of seniors and dependents. Well, we demand that that law be repealed, those measures, and if the People's Party maintains that there is this recovery, we understand that there will be no problem. Moreover, we understand that if he stands in the past Full that did not seem reasonable to him those shifts – as we have been reporting all these years – they won't have any problem negotiating posters, jobs that respect workers' and workers' rights at least. It happens that these three judgments are against, that they are taken by the cartels, and that today, when it is ending by 2015, they have moved that a negotiation would take place, but today the said negotiation has not yet occurred, but they have had some meeting – we know, we know that the next Monday will be the next meeting to talk about those shifts – but they have not moved in writing, nor clearly, to union representatives what the conditions or criteria followed for the design of those posters, and therefore today they will not know what they will be able to negotiate. There's nothing on the table, one thing is meeting, but another is negotiating, and in order to be able to negotiate, of course, there has to be something, there have to be some conditions that can be debated and negotiated. And we therefore call for a real negotiation in compliance, precisely, with the terms contained in those three judicial judgments lost by the Galician Union against the workers and workers. Obviously, the situation of workers and workers is important, but so is the situation of users. We also call on this initiative to recover the capacity of leisure and rehabilitation activities and other activities which unfortunately, due to these cuts in Galician Union, as the welfare workers themselves report, are being conditioned. We were told that they were not economically able to pay transportation for some users so they could do leisure activities. So we understand that's not receipt. Furthermore, we demand that these works be resumed urgently in the CAPD of the Coruña, because it seems that they now have the right to listen to the claims that have been made over the past seven years, that it is neither normal nor viable to have that center, that CAPD of the Coruña, attached to a building that is totally empty, that building G. It seems that they are now echoing – I say – and welcome that it is seven years later!, and that they have thought to bring it down – we don't know if it will finally be done or not – together with that branch that has been demolished, that fell last year. But of course, my companion has already moved it in the past Pleno, there are other deficiencies, there are indeed filtrations, there are structural deficiencies in the center itself, and we ask, we demand, urgently, to end this deteriorating situation. The truth is that the whole past acknowledged that these deficiencies existed, but we don't know if they are going to be carried out, because really reform, or the need for reforms that the center has, we have commented on them, there are two health commissions, which unfortunately also exist in the case of Caranza's residence, Ferrol, and as much as we have denounced them here, although they know the conditions in which they are, they know that we have been paralysed works for a year, and it seems that they have either failed or thought they have also failed to fulfil the promises, and finally, as we have already seen, they will simply resign themselves to do the works of the plants 6 and 7, when they actually committed themselves to a reform from the whole center. That is probably the People's Party's commitment to this point. We therefore demand that workers and workers be returned to their rights. And also a point that is important, we were also talking the other day about working materials, because obviously the deterioration of working conditions comes not only from the increase in the workload resulting from the reduction in staff, but also from the absence of materials and machinery, especially what it has to do with cranes to mobilize patients with mobility problems or patients with referrals or directions. They know that part of their work is socio-sanitary and similar to work done in some health units. Well, after complaining for a long time, because at the beginning of the year Mrs. Mato said that these cranes would be bought, and today we don't have them in any center, it seems like they've been bidden and sued to the English Court; but, however, today, at this point, there really are no such materials, these cranes, at any center of well-being. We ask, of course, that it be provided with the necessary material, because we understand that these are not the right conditions for the development of work, for the workers and workers, nor are the conditions that the older and dependent people deserve, that they have paid their entire lives and that they are, in addition, in our centres, and that they have the right to adequate attention to the necessary personnel and the necessary materials. Nothing more for now, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u214	Intervention of parliamentary groups. Joint Group. Mrs. Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u215	Well, this is part of what we were talking about yesterday, what we're talking about this morning and what we've been talking about since... To such an extent that the Committee itself addressed the President of the Government, now in office, Mr Rajoy, to denounce what was happening in Galicia at the Centres of Direct Care of Wellness. Of course, there was no news of that, no one found out, but I am sure that instead of being the Corporate Committee of the Crown outside of some Catalan province or Andalusia the Government of the State would leave to denounce the evil of the public workers in Andalusia or Catalonia. But since it's a PP government, everything is closed here and for Mr. Rajoy there's no problem. Among the problems reported to the President of the Government were, among others, the problems already mentioned by the AGE spokesman: that of rest, the lack of rest, working seven consecutive days, unable to enjoy often any of the fourteen holidays legally established, enjoying nothing more than one Sunday a month or having to take over the work of another person who is on the ground or who has been absent; or denying permission, including permission to attend to the doctor for lack of staff to cover his absence. It is unacceptable that by not opening the replacement lists there are workers and workers who are denied permission and days of their own business. The scarcity is very serious, both again material and machinery, as well as the renewal of tools that are obsolete or damaged. The impossibility of reconciling work and family life, the deterioration of the quality of services and the cutting, as the AGE spokesman said, of basic material, such as leathers or depriving users, users, of services such as physical activities or play activities that harm their quality of life. In the light of this complaint, the Government of Greece referred in August to compliance with the Public Service Act in order to defend the signing of contracts of an hour of duration, of two hours or weekend, and wages of 300 or 400 euros for employees working in public residences, which in many cases have to travel from other localities to more than 50 kilometres away. You'll tell me if, for an hour, it's worth a hundred miles of travel. If they do not accept the contract, they say they renounce the contract, and if they resign the contract they are automatically excluded from the contract lists and they end up. A true indecency and real blackmail to the staff on the recruitment lists. The result of this process of the Galician administration is the overload of work, so that the shifts of professionals and the professionals who care for older people have sequences of seven continuous days of work, with three consecutive nights working and releasing one Sunday of every three. And as I said, as there is no rule for holidays, working practically every holiday. An unsustainable situation from the point of view of work, but also from the point of view of the quality of the public service. Attention to seniors, minors or dependents requires staffing that cannot be replaced by machines, at least if we want to talk about integral care. Persons hospitalized in centres of any kind, health care or socio-sanitary need both physical and psychic care; they need to be given time, treated with respect, guaranteed their privacy. Needs that don't cover machines, even though machines are necessary, and having the necessary material to care for people who use the center is fundamental: leathers, bed linens, anti-skirt mattresses and, as AGE's voicer said, cranes, who avoid not only work accidents or muscle injuries, but also harm users. It's not the same, I don't know how many of you have experience in mobilizing patients, but I assure you that it's a practically safe injury after very little time, especially with the older people who counter-mobilize them and, therefore, they hurt the health and welfare personnel, but they also cause serious harm to themselves.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u216	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u217	So it is fair that this motion be approved and I shall vote in favour of it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u218	Thank you very much, Mrs. Martínez. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. Mrs. Paz Franco has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u219	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Of course, if there is a matter on which we have been debating on a number of occasions in this Parliament in the last two years, that is what it has to do with the cuts and, above all, with the consequences of these cuts in the area of social services provision in this country. We've focused it on the most diverse points of view, and there are two areas that basically affect. On the one hand, the cuts that have occurred in the rights of employees of the Galician Union with the approval of Law 1/2012, in which, among other things, what has been done was to decree the non-application of Article 19 of the V Single Labour Convention of the Galician Union, which is what refers primarily to the shifts, libraries and other rights and rest of the staff. And like that, along with other resource cuts for public services, it has caused not only a serious deterioration in the rights of workers and workers, but a serious deterioration in the provision of services to users. This affects, in particular, the area of social services, because it affects in a unique way those centres that operate continuously the twenty-four hours the three hundred sixty-five days of the year. Summing up the consequences of application 1/2015, we can say that only in the area of the current social policy council have been reduced 1,500 jobs, which will certainly not be compensated for the announcement that you made when we raised this issue – three or four weeks ago in Commission 1a – the Director General of the Public Service, who announced the creation of squares in this area, 1,500; which derive from two fundamental aspects: one, from the depreciation of jobs, and another, from the lack of recruitment for task accumulations. What Mrs. Solla reported, that workers were not sued when they exercised certain rights. In addition to this, we are in a situation in which, in addition to violating the labour rights of the workers who provide their services in this council -- which was even the subject of different judgments in different judicial areas in the case of complaints made by the workers themselves -- they brutally increased the discharges by overload. It must be borne in mind that not only does work increase to the extent that it is aging the population entered in these centers, which is going to be an increasingly dependent population, but today workers also age, and therefore are in many worse conditions of taking and enduring these working days of, as it was said here, up to nine consecutive days working without any kind of rest in the middle. To this it must be added that this application of Article 9 has caused that on many occasions, when there are holidays, when there are low, when there is some kind of permission, they are left without covering aspects such as physiotherapy, physiology and other "services" that could be considered complementary assistance to the people who are entering, with the result that they are affected. Faced with this, there have been not only workers' platforms, but also family platforms, users and users who have come here to file their complaints. Because it is not only the desist or that the time that workers and workers have to devote to care, to cleaning, etc., of users, but that they have even taxed the number of daily diapers that could be used, in addition to other deficiencies that have already been referred to here in larger centers. But we have also been told here in this Parliament that in juvenile centres, where they are theoretically geared towards the re-education and reintegration of the boys and girls who are there protected by the Galician Union, they cannot even carry out activities aimed at that aim because of lack of resources. They told us, in some cases, that they don't even have money to pay for bus tickets to take them on a Saturday or a Sunday afternoon, when they don't have any other kind of activities, children and girls...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u220	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u221	...inpatients to something as socializing as it may be to go see a movie or a football game, or any activity like that. That's why we, from the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, have voted in favour of this initiative, although we believe that for the times that the People's Party has voted against, unless they are embroiled by the Christmas spirit, it will be difficult for them to prosper. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u222	Thank you, Mrs. Paz. Socialist Group, Mrs Gallego Calvar.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u223	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Today morning it was approved, with the vote against the Socialist Parliamentary Group, the Law on Tax Measures of the Government of Galicia, and yesterday the budgets of the Council of Galicia for 2016. Both with the vote against – I insist – of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, because despite the repeated repetition of a lie, it does not become reality, and, of course, a repeated lie often does not change reality. And the reality is that the Feijóo Government dedicates today 5 points less than the budget to social spending than when it arrived in government in 2009, so much so that every time we came here to talk about the budget if it tells us that 80% of the expenditure is social expenditure, when we all know that this is false. For those cuts, those five points less than the government devotes to social spending, and the results are such issues as what we have been talking about here today, of what the Socialist Group, as its lords know, has been echoed long ago, and we have had discussions with the so-called Labour and Welfare Councillor, in which we fruitlessly try to raise awareness of the serious difficulties that are being faced in the public centers of the Labour and Welfare Council and that it has put in place measures to address these serious difficulties. We're talking about staff problems, that staff squares have been amortized, that they are not replaced when there are absences from illness, vacations. We're talking about amortizing more than 800 places in the long-lasting Labour and Welfare Council in these years of the crisis, which have fired more than 700 people, who between them are more than 1,500 people who no longer work in those services. We're talking about staff who have work shifts, as I was told before in the use of the word, of more than eight and nine consecutive days, of staff who have to make a superhuman physical effort, which causes them on many occasions injuries and falls due to illness because they don't have in many cases cranes to move people with reduced mobility, which causes them, as I said, these disease problems and even many low levels of depression due to severe material deficiencies that they have in order to cope with their daily work. But we're not just talking about staff problems. We also talk about the difficulties people live in these homes, about older people who go cold, about older people who live in homes where there are humiditys, where heating fails, where sometimes hot water fails; about older people, many of them with reduced mobility, who don't have the care they need hydration, mobility, etc., and even accessibility to these centers. It is true that the new Social Policy Adviser in one of the last debates in this Parliament acknowledged that there were indeed these problems and that the Government was trying to address some of these difficulties. But still today, which is December 23rd, we're not sure what the 2016 workbook is going to be, nor do we, nor the workers and workers of these centers. It would be good if, for once, we had given stability and certainty in the future to those workers and workers, and also that, as far as possible, if we were to invest more economic resources in those centres to bring them up to the level that we all would like them to be a facility that accords with the century in which we are and a facility that accords with the dignity of the people who are in these residences, because we speak of older people, we speak of people with disabilities, but we also speak, indeed, as Mrs. Paz told us, of juvenile centres that are protected by some judicial decision, that in many cases it is essential to take steps to reintegrate them socially and in those who lack the slightest budget to make that socialization and that reintegration that is so necessary. So, from the Socialist Parliamentary Group, given that it is no longer the first time that we have dealt with this issue and that we have already tabled non-legislative proposals on its day, interpellations, motions, and that all of them have, as I said, a result until now unsatisfactory, because we do not present any amendment because we agree in the spirit, in essence, with what we demand, in this case, Alternative Left Gaga, and we will vote in favour of this motion. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u224	Thank you. Popular Group, Mr Tellado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u225	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs. Gallego, I'm sorry to bother you, but the fact is that the weight of social spending has increased by 10 points since the People's Party ruled, since the Socialist Party ruled in that "poor Bipartite", as you said yourself. And as much as bothers you, the spending on the Dependency Act when you were in government was 137 million in 2015, 298 million in 2015, and next year, 324 million in euros. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] So here, speaking of social commitment from the Socialist Party, I'm telling you, it's useless, it's sterile. You were devoted to Galician social integration income 22.8 million euros; we spent 47 million euros. This year 2015 and next year, 5 plus. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Therefore, lessons in social policy, not on the part of the Socialist Party and the Bipartite. You've devoted those times of kindness to forgetting the worst people. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Mrs. Solla, you must have been very busy in the last two months with that of the Marea primarys and that of the United Left primarys, because the Social Policy Advisor has already appeared in this House on two occasions and has already clarified these issues that you are raising. So I understand that you must have been very busy with that of the Mares primarys and with that of electing out of the primarys the best people, because the truth is that the whole question has been clarified here. So, you know what I'm telling you? That you can't urge the Social Policy Council to do what you're already doing; you can't urge the Government to do what you've been doing for months. Look, about the proposal that the Council negotiate the 2016 cartels, look, I have to tell you that these negotiations have been going on for weeks; weeks!, how much bothers you. Before Mrs. Díaz – who today did not want to take this resense initiative – had asked the councillor here, those negotiations were already under way. So, the negotiating will on the part of the Galician Union, total, all, and, of course, the goal is to develop balanced posters, fair posters with workers, and we understand that, in addition to the proposal that has been put forward, not in the Coruña, but in the four provinces, it is manifestly better and better than the one that is in force at the moment. You speak more of the means. Look, about the acquisition of new media, I have to tell you is that they've already been acquired, and they're being supplied to the centers. You're talking about cranes. Look, it's just that the Galician Union has acquired 49 cranes of elevation, with an budget of 90,000 euros, which will be supplied to the centers. Current and nine cranes! You can't urge anyone to do what you're already doing. You will therefore understand that, in addition, we must comply with the Public Sector Contracts Act, and therefore we must follow some procurement procedures. Perhaps when they rule you don't, but, of course, responsible governments do. We follow the procedures of the Contract Law. 49 cranes have already been acquired, and the procurement procedure of 415 electric beds for our residences, of 289 sanitary mesins, of 29 shower pads for jeriatric baths, of 923 viscoelastic mattresses and of 1,322 viscoelastic pillows for older residences has been completed. All with a contract amount of 600,000 euros. I know you're very upset. Mrs. Díaz laughed, but, of course, she's starting to get away with Galicia's problems, because this motion you signed today didn't want to defend her. You're talking about recruitment fees for the replacement of fungible materials. Look, the new advisor has open channels of dialogue with workers' representatives to also participate in the technical specifications of these new materials, to meet staff requirements and, of course, to improve the quality of care. On substitutions, look, the regulations are being complied with, and the attention ratios to which the legislation requires are always met. About the center of the Coruña, I have to tell you that your proposal is late, and that it is late because the Social Policy Council has already started a procedure, a contract file procedure, a series of works with an investment of 479,000 euros. By the way, in the budgets of those you were proud to have refused this morning and on yesterday's day, there is a budget of EUR 400,000 to do priority works at this center. Therefore, Your Honor, you can't urge anyone to do what you're already doing. And, of course, the new Social Policy Advisor has shown in this House his willingness to dialogue with workers' representatives to improve working conditions, and with a final goal that I think we will all share, that is to improve and ensure the provision of decent social services and the highest quality possible. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u226	Thank you, Mr. Tellado. For the parliamentary group of the motion, Mrs Solla Fernández has the floor. Give your voice to the bench, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u227	Thank you, President. First of all, I would like to thank the opposition groups for the support of the initiative and, secondly, the truth is that it follows your line, Mr Tellado. I don't know if you think I'm sorry to continue defending the rights of workers and workers, but if there's something that's done, it's, of course, their intervention, their attitude and continuing with "and you more", and precisely the citizens and citizens, who are not fools, know that their policy is fully reshesive, and they reminded him on Sunday in the polls. That's what's broken, that's what no longer fits, Mr. Tellado. [[Applause]] We have brought an initiative that calls for the reinstatement of the rights that you, for the sake of that supposed savings that they said it was necessary – and yet we have already seen that it was to increase public debt – they have lowered the workers and workers. Precisely you haven't spoken on that point. I have already said in my speech that if you consider that there is recovery and if in addition to the new adviser, the policies that Mrs. Mato has made so far seem fatal, and believe that the turns should not be applied in this way, what you have to do is to repeal that law, those measures of 1/2012 and put that article 19 of the V collective agreement back, and then we will stop bringing this issue to this Parliament, because, of course, we do not do it willingly, we do it to defend those rights of workers and workers. And, look, you can't keep lying in this House, because social spending has fallen into EUR 641 million since you're in power, and we see it every day, not just us, not just the workers and the workers, but the users and users of these centers, who, as has already been said here, have even rationed the leathers -- three daily diapers. Mr. Tellado, I don't know if you know that in some centers there are times when you can finish – and indeed it has happened; they have already reported in the center of Oleiros that has ever happened – the leathers all over the center. Would you like to have your father, mother or family in those conditions in a center? I'd like you to answer me, really; I'm really telling you, because if you support that it's keeping our older ones in good condition, actually, I'd like you to tell me if you'd like to have your family in those conditions. But look, besides – I already put it back in my intervention – you are not providing the criteria for making these rounds, and therefore you cannot negotiate, for many meetings – there have been meetings and the next is Monday – that there will be. There's no negotiation when there's nothing to negotiate, when there's no criterion on the table, Mr. Tellado. And so they don't try to cheat because they're waiting for union representatives that you're complying with with all the judgments of the three judgments that you've lost Galician Union against workers and workers. And, of course, we don't know anything about whether there's going to be any improvement in that center of the Crown, beyond the fact that it's been programmed and we've been asking for seven years. Because my partner -- who says you don't want to intervene -- has already transferred it to him, that there are leaks, that there's a very serious deterioration in the center of other dependencies...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u228	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u229	...and that there is no plan, just like it happened in Ferrol, where you finally don't do it, and you're just going to reform the 6 and 7 plants, and it turns out that the reforms of the whole center are still...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u230	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u231	...not done. Nothing more and thank you very much. [[Applause]] G.P. motion. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da María Carmen Acuña do Campo, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in the field of mental health
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u232	This motion has been tabled with an amendment by the Parliamentary Group of the Galician Left Alternative.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u233	You have the floor, to formulate the motion, Mrs Acuña, of the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u234	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies. Well, in the full past since the Socialist Parliamentary Group we asked the Government about the state of mental health, but the Counsellor, Mr Vázquez Almuína, instead of giving us answers and, above all, solutions to such ill-treated Greek mental health, preferred to give solutions to my nervousness, and sent me to take anxiolytics. I very much appreciate your advice because, besides, I'm right, I'm nervous, but it would have to be plastic so I wouldn't be nervous being the health voicer and seeing the outcome that the public health system is doing Mr. Feijóo's management. I'm nervous, yes, ladies; by the way, as nervous as those over two and a half million people in Spain are taking anxiolytics; as nervous as those 15% people in Galicia are taking anxiolytics sporadically. Because, ladies and gentlemen, treatment with anxiolytics and antidepressants due to the crisis has increased by 48%. Unemployment, social and health cuts, housing loss, future insecurity are causing mental disorders in many people, as experts say, for the high level of suffering they are suffering. And it caused mental health demand to increase by 15%; demand, not resources. But I will also be allowed to give a therapeutic advice from here to the counselor, by the way, in the opposite direction, because I'm going to recommend that you not take anxiolytics because you see him with a few strikes to solve the serious problems that our health has. Look, the truth is that the situation of Welsh mental health is to get nervous, because while the health advisor said here that everything is great, because the reality is that solutions are needed, and in addition urgently – and that is precisely what we propose from the Socialist Parliamentary Group through our motion – solutions that pass through that in the first half of 2016 the Government elaborates three plans: a Greek mental health plan, a Greek plan on suicide and a plan for the prevention and treatment of additive conduct. A mental health plan that contemplates the creation of the devices, programs and human resources necessary to adequately meet the needs identified in mental health. But that's right, with the participation of professionals and professionals, users and users, and, of course, of the other collectives involved in this matter. That is, a consensual, well-equipped mental health plan that is being evaluated and that is being periodically renewed; exactly as the plan for the prevention and treatment of additive conduct needs to be renewed. The crisis, ladies and gentlemen, is increasing consumption. However, the People's Party prefers to look elsewhere, and that bomb will blow them up in their faces. In addition, we must complete the path started at the time of the Bipartite – not "Cursed Bipartite" – and transfer the care part of drug addiction to Sergas. I'll never get tired of repeating it: it's health care, it's a part of care, and it's being provided by the municipalities, and it's being financed very insufficiently since the Council. We also demand a German suicide plan, because, even though the People's Party denies it, suicides are increasing, exactly with this sequence – which is not mine, calm, of course, by experts – 2010, 275; year 2011, 306; year 2012, 332 suicides; year 2013, 333; year 2014, 390. An increase, ladies and gentlemen, of 41% in these last four years, to the point that in the year 2014 in Galicia there was more than one suicide every day, placing the suicide rate in our community in 14 suicides per 100,000 inhabitants; that is, four points above the state average, which is 8.3. Really, Galicia, ladies and gentlemen, has always presented a suicide rate above the state average, but that difference, in recent years, has become higher. Furthermore, this data varies according to the province analyzed. The Lugo rate is the highest, with 16.1% of suicides per 100,000 inhabitants. The Coruña has 13%; Pontevedra, 9%; and Ourense, 11.8%. Precisely in the province of Ourense, the rate was reduced from 12.9 in 2011 to only 11.8 suicides per 100,000 inhabitants in 2012. Thanks – we understand, you understand the professionals – to the work done since the suicide prevention program implemented in that province during the Government of Mr. Touriño. That's why we also asked in our motion for a German plan on suicide, following, of course, WHO's indications, with a multisectoral character, but we also asked for the suicide prevention plan to be generalized, the content of its results in the province of Ourense. But they also make me very nervous, ladies and gentlemen, those massive and forced retirements applied by the People's Party in health care, when by law they can only apply about 10%, according to the rate of rest, but they haven't been applying it; massive and forced retirements that have caused in the Vigo area, for example, only 28 psychiatrists to attend 600,000 people, when the recommendation is a psychiatry professional for every 100,000 inhabitants. According to that ratio, Vigo would need 60, more than twice as much as he's got. So in the motion, from the Socialist Parliamentary Group, we also look at meeting the ratios of recommended professionals with guarantees – yes – of stability in all assistance teams and, in addition, for all professional categories involved in these care; all categories, lordships, from mental health specialized nursing – which, of course, we form and then we do not use – to, of course, clinical psychologists, so essential and so scarce; normalized incorporation of clinical psychologists into multidisciplinary teams of hospital medical services. And I'm also nervous, ladies and gentlemen, knowing that in Galicia some 75,000 people are suffering from a serious mental disorder, and that's why they have a life expectancy 20 years below the general population. But they also have the highest suicide rate in the Spanish state. And they also have seven times the risk of unemployment and the highest rates of social exclusion. For this reason, we call for the creation and adequate provision of care continuum equipment and sub-equipment equipment for patients with severe mental disorder in all – in all – health areas and support the association movement of users and family members of patients who help in these care. But we cannot be lacking in our country – which has provinces where we have the oldest population in all of Europe – of psychogeriatric units – and we also claim them in this motion – as well as of early pediatric care services adequately equipped with material and human resources. They make me very nervous, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Feijóo's massive sanitary privatizations, so we urge to stop and reverse all the privatizations of public health services for mental health care. And I'm also very nervous about the indolence Mr. Rueda shows in the management of equality, especially of gender-based violence. That's why we call for strengthening primary health care by incorporating psychological treatments for common pathologies of greater prevalence and adequate attention to victims of gender-based violence. And finally, ladies and gentlemen, we cannot remain impatient about the transvasion of chronic mental patients to elderly homes, where they lack adequate care. That is why we demand through this motion the control and follow-up of medical care of the clinical and legal situation of these patients by the Health Administration; not by the residences of the old age, by the Health Administration. We hope to have the support of the groups. For now, nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u235	Thank you, Mrs. Acuña. Intervention of parliamentary groups. By the Alternative Left Galician, you have the floor to Mrs. Solla Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u236	Thank you, President. Well, I was saying earlier, we approved budgets yesterday precisely, and they did not take into account the danger of cuts also in the prevention of drug addictions; deaf ears to complaints of cuts in human and material means in mental health and appionating on all the amendments presented by the opposition – 1.307–. They didn't pay any attention, and they're still like this. It's been a long time, too, despite the worrying data, for suicides in our country. It has already been said here: 394 suicide deaths in Galicia in 2014, the highest rate of all Spain; 14.24 per 100,000 inhabitants, according to these data from the Institute of Legal Medicine of Galicia, of the Imelga, when the average state is 83 per 100,000 inhabitants. And despite that, we continue, as has already been said here, without a serious plan – which also calls for the initiative – to convert and, above all, to prevent this situation. And if suicides have always been high in Galicia, the Government should reflect on that increase that has taken place since 2008, which reaches up to 30% and that the truth should be worrying enough to try and put forward a plan of shock in prevention. And the People's Party not only does not bring solutions, but it makes it difficult for the living conditions of citizenship, thereby making many risk factors worse. They also made deaf ears to aid calls, for example, from entities like Aspaneps, and, far from helping them, we still pull back. I mean, they're in charge of a health service that should have already taken over the Galician Health Service, such as mental health care, and instead of improving the service, what you do is you still cut your budget. They lost 35% of the budget by the Galician board. And they haven't changed to the warnings of the Galego Mental Health Movement, which reported in recent years that since the arrival of Feijóo and the worsening of poverty and the conditions associated with it, if they had increased, as we said, the incidence of these suicides, the incidence of psychic disorders and, precisely, the consumption of psychopharmacs, which they recommended to Mrs Acuña. Data which, in addition, are accompanied, as they and they denounce, by a deterioration of the assistance resources produced by the budget cuts by the Galician Union. They don't seem to care either about the allegations of the CHUS personnel in Compostela, who warned that they were going through clinical criteria to avoid entering patients into psychiatric units, such as in the Gil Casares, when free beds were available. And it also remained unsatisfied in Galicia when the staff of Álvaro Cunqueiro recently reported that staffing was insufficient at the new hospital in Vigo. They referred to the need for an increase of two to three psychiatry professionals and three to four clinical psychology professionals. And also the need for occupational therapists and social workers. And he also denounced the staff that there were materials that were not suitable, that, in addition, the emergency exit was blocked, that there could not be access to the outside, that there were no rooms to do activities for the people who entered and that there were no rooms for the visits. And all these measures, as your lords know, are counterproductive for the improvement of a mental health problem, except that what is intended is to give more psychopharmaceuticals and this is the only solution. The reality is that there are deficiencies in mental health and that the abandonment by the Galician Union is quite obvious, and the Government does not heed any of the warnings, either of the opposition parties or of the social movements or of the staff, or even of the patients. They are not – they seem – concerned about this topic: the absence of this mental health plan, the absence of that suicide prevention plan. We are obviously going to support this non-law proposal and we are proposing a two-point amendment: firstly, to ensure that the full use of these beds is guaranteed as much as necessary. And secondly, a point that calls for adequate attention to child mental health. We know that there is a point that includes early attention, but there is the chance – and we ask it here – that the People's Party has promised a unit of hospitalization in southern Galicia and this continues without going on. We demand it to be so. In addition, we ask that it be resized, that more resources be given to that unit that addresses food disorders, such as anorexia and bulimia in Compostela's hospital, and we also want children's mental health care in Ferrol to be taken over into this Galego Health Service, and that while, of course, that social entity has sufficient resources to carry on its work, because we understand that, after trampling these 1,307 amendments and not taking note of what the citizen said on Sunday in the polls, at least they can try to correct through this non-legislative proposal. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u237	Thank you very much. Joint Group, Mrs. Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u238	Mental disorders affect approximately one million children, children and adolescents in the state, with anxiety, depression, attention deficit disorders and the most prevalent hyperactivity, followed by neurodesenrol disorders and food-related and autistic spectrum disorders. In spite of everything, despite the fact that all the data indicate that at least one in five children and girls will experience a problem of emotional or conduct development throughout their lives, attention in Galicia and the state is still very poor. Mental disorders in general are diseases that tend to occur in the early years of adult life or in the late years of adolescence. Half of the disorders appear for the first time before the age of 14 and more than 70% begin before the age of 18. When studying the history of the patient's or patient's clinic, it can be seen that many schizophrenia and bipolar disorders already appear between 12 and 17 years old, clear signs that something was happening to him. Preventing the causes of these disorders in an early stage is essential not only for the quality of life of the minor or the minor, or for the adolescent or the adolescent, but also for the quality of their future life. Children's psychiatry and adolescents should be addressed in an interdisciplinary way, with actions of pediatrics, psychology, nursing, child care departments, juvenile justice, education, etc., in order to address environmental factors, environmental environment, learning problems, chronic diseases, social problems and other kinds of problems. If we compare the benefits according to the autonomous communities, we find that Galicia is in line with initiatives that improve psychiatric care for children. The lack of means and the abandonment to which the Galician administration has undergone psychiatric care leads to tragic situations such as those that appear every time in the Greek press. Such is the lack of interest of the Council of Health for psychiatric care in general and for the infant-juvenil in particular that announce as a great achievement that the private hospital Álvaro Cunqueiro will have four rooms of infant-juvenil psychiatry to meet the needs – including food disorders – of the provinces of Pontevedra and Ourense. It seems rather scarce; four rooms that are insufficient, in addition to clear discrimination for the population of Ourense, bringing more suffering to the minors as well as their families, forcing them to receive hospital care away from their surroundings. Saving health is not only a mistake, it's a fear. The importance of early attention is demonstrated by the studies carried out by the Spanish Psychiatry Association, which gather that 30% of severe mental illness is treated at first; the remaining 70% result in controlable diseases. It's true that you should avoid entering mental health units, and much more of the minors, whenever possible, but what can't happen is that you don't get into them because of lack of means. But it's still worse, it happens, that after hospital discharge the follow-up of psychiatric patients is practically nullified by lack of means, essentially human, but also material. So, the normal thing in Galicia is that the patient is being cared for when he has the crisis and that he doesn't see himself again until the next quote. It depends on the willingness of professionals and professionals to follow up and protect the family, in their case. For greater disaster, the low ratio of specialists and the constant increase in mental illnesses that this crisis has caused reduce the consultations to only 5 or 10 minutes, to all insufficient lights. And who pays the consequences of this abandonment of the administration? Basically the sick person and the woman closest to her. Because it's still the women who take care of the sick people in the family. They are the ones who must force you to take the medication, the ones who struggle every day to overcome a situation that has already ended up in violent acts against them. It's not the first time these women, mostly alone, have to call the police or the Civil Guard to protect their lives. Sometimes you get it, sometimes you don't. What's clear is that mostly the man leaves the house, because men are so sensitive that they can't endure so much pain to see a sick son or a child with problems. Women usually take care of these kids, these teenagers. That's why it's urgent to improve psychiatric care in our country – it's over time – and that's why I'm going to support this motion. I'm still claiming from here the apartments, the houses protected for these minors. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u239	Thank you very much, Mrs. Martínez. Galego Nationalist Block, Mrs. Prado Cores. Give Mrs. Prado Colors a voice, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u240	Good afternoon. Indeed, despite the recognition of the importance of mental health, it remains, in recognition of the importance, because it is then one of the great forgotten in public health of Galicia, forgotten in budgets and forgotten in planning. We approved, approved the People's Party yesterday, the budgets of the Union, where the BNG presented amendments aimed at improving mental health, towards improving the tendency to drug addictions and which in the budgets presented by the Government of the Union were not, and voted against these amendments, with which, it shows that this concern remains for discourses, remains for role, but soon does not appear in practical realities. This means that professionals, users and families are systematically denouncing the progressive deterioration of the mental health care system in Galicia; a deterioration that was already evident but that, with the management that came to do of the crisis, has only made it worse on two fronts: on the one hand, in the policy of cuts in public services, mainly in social and health services, which has led to a deterioration in the specialized care and coverage of the basic social needs of people with mental illness; and on the other hand, in the increase in inequalities, levels of poverty, both in intensity – and in the poorest people – as well as in extension. That is, the poorest and the poorest within these poor, reaching far wider sectors. What did you do this? Grow psychic disorders as an expression of the increase in the level of suffering of many thousands of people. It has been said here, but it must be affected: unemployment, reduced social and health protection, increased emigration, loss of housing. So what it does is that insecurity, panic and fear make many more people suffer more and more psychic problems. They're getting to know alarming, really alarming figures, about increasing mental health problems. We saw a progressive increase in the prevalence of disorders related to depression, anxiety, substance consumption, suicide attempts and unfortunately the consumption of these suicides. I'm sorry you want to systematically hide this reality because it's too painful, but reality is out there. The author of the initiative said that there was more than one suicide a day in Galicia. It's actually a drama. Now, suicide is the first cause of unnatural death in the Spanish state, above traffic accidents. And in Galicia that reality is multiplicated, increasing suicides by 18% between 2013 and 2014. The data has already been given here, which should at least lead to a reflection of what reality is. In view of this, the Health Council makes no decision to solve the problem or assume the problem as a public health problem, what it does is a partial approach, in some cases punctual, very timely, but no global strategy is consistent with the magnitude of the problem. There is no strategic problem of mental health, no problem of prevention of suicide, no problem of attention to drug addiction, and people with more or less serious mental disorders, with drug addictions, with addictions, because there is no way out. We agree with this initiative. It is necessary to develop a mental health plan, a suicide care plan, from drug addiction care. We regret that the Council present mental health in health priorities 2014-2016, but that it does not pass from that presentation; it does not pass from the role and does not pass from the speeches. After seven years of the People's Party's governments, the situation is much more than worrying, because what is done is to prioritize treatment methods exclusively pharmacologically. They went to shut down – it was also said – psychiatric hospitals, where the rights of sick people were violated. We agree that this was not the system, but there was no alternative to that closure, which was made to put these people in senior residences. We must add to this the low budget share – I said earlier – in these budgets, in addition, that this match is intended for the privatization of the system, and that, for example, in Galicia, 470 euros less a month are spent on mental health than in Spain. Waiting lists for the first three to five months consultation – finished, Madam President –; the periodicity of the consultations is much higher than one month, when the recommendation is that it be weekly or fortnight; we find that the professional ratio, of course, is totally insufficient, 1.54 psychologists per 100,000 inhabitants, when the European Union average is 18, and we no longer mention that in Germany is 40 and in Sweden or Finland it is 70. With which, it seems more evident that measures must be taken and that measures must be serious; there must be budgeting and devices must be put in place. With which, from the BNG, we have supported this bill presented by the Socialist Party today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u241	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. People's Group. Mr. Santalices Vieira has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u242	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, everyone. I'd like to begin this intervention with a prayer, if possible, both this bench and this bench and anyone else who speaks from this rostrum. It would be nice if we hadn't dedicated ourselves to prescribing from here, and maximum prescriptions that I have... Don't interrupt me, please, which is a very serious matter... [[Interruptions.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u243	Mr. Santalices, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u244	Please don't interrupt me, because I know this bothers the sick's family, and I know what I'm talking about because I was headmaster of Toén's Psychiatric Hospital for seven years. So it's a request I make: that we be careful about the language we use from this rostrum. We don't have to bother anyone. You were talking about the hospital in Toén, Mrs. Acuña. I'm very happy that the Toén Hospital was transferred to Piñor Hospital. It was necessary to dignify mental health in Ourense, and it was dignified. The Toén Hospital was a pioneer, but the Toén Hospital didn't have the necessary conditions to provide, at the level of comfort, decent psychiatric care. He had the best professionals, but there was a lack of comfort in the facilities. And I think that change, which has moved to Piñor, is very reasonable. It was also reasonable for the acute unit to be mounted in Ourense, within the Hospital Santa María Nai. It was normal for psychiatric patients to have, too, and they could be treated within a general hospital. The mentally ill also have appendicitis, and they have to be operated, and this was not possible before. So I think they took steps. In the Sergas strategy it contains specific mental health actions, and many of them are even being new. You spoke here of one of them, and I spare her, that plan that is in Ourense, and then I will speak briefly of him, but there are others. We refer to Ourense, and even I am glad that we take Ourense as a reference on the issue of hospitalization at the home of psychiatric care because I believe it is an important step and that it can be a model to follow in other health areas. This is a model inspired by the Hado model, home hospitalization, which serves to care for those patients who partially remitted their symptomatology, which resulted in their entry by a psychiatric pathology within a unit of acutes. This is a new model, where a psychiatrist works, where a nurse specializes in mental health and where a psychologist also enters. Besides, he has a population coverage that I think is important, because he's marked an isochron that's above 20 minutes. So I think this is why we should keep working with him. The objective of this plan – and I highlight very much this of the home hospitalization of psychiatric care – is to finalize the therapeutic process by which the patient was entered into a unit of acutes, encourage his or her reintegration in a progressive way into his or her previous life and maintain a clinical response obtained because of his or her income. It also has inclusion criteria. The inclusion criteria may not be for any patient. They have to be patients who are integrated into acute hospitals and who have family support; clinically we're talking about patients who have schizophrenia, bipolar disorder or major depression. Of course, patients with eating disorders cannot be treated in this system. You talked about something I want to highlight. I agree that it is the plan that was implemented in Ourense to try to reduce suicide attempts and achieve their benefits. With the suicide attempts in 2009, which was when this program was implemented, 20 percent, we're now down by 10 points, and it's at 10 percent. So it seems to me that this was an important step. Here was talk of mental health infantewuvenil, and it was said that it was necessary to address coverage in the south. The Hospital Álvaro Cunqueiro, so disused by all of you, offers the opportunity for a mental health unit infantewuvenil to be established there. It's practically working and it's going to be a reference point for the entire southern part of Galicia. So, the Alvaro Cunqueiro Hospital, far from being a threat, you're realizing it's a great opportunity. You, who here have talked so much about the Álvaro Cunqueiro Hospital in the negative sense, see that it brings a very positive aspect here. We'll have a mental health unit in the southern area that's been in demand for a long time. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u245	Parliamentary group responsible for the motion. You have the word to Mrs. Acuña do Campo. Give a voice to Mrs. Acuña's chair, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u246	Thank you, President. I want to start by thanking the opposition groups for their support and to announce that we are going to accept the amendment they proposed, the amendment to addendum that AGE proposes, because it completes our initiative and because, in addition, the points they collect in their amendment are requests that we have already discussed and submitted from our group. Mr. Santalices, I understand that you may be disturbed by the fact that you are prescribed from the hemicycle to the patients of mental illness, but, look, more will bother you that you vote against each and every one of your requests, the more will bother you that you divague, that you trivialize with this problem. Yes, yes, what happened, that they didn't operate on appendicitis before, Mr. Santalices? Because that's what you came to say. Look, I didn't finally get it. He likes it, he agrees, but what are you going to do? Are you going to vote in favour or are you going to vote against? I fear you will vote against it, because your attitude – and speaking of mental health, I will use this term – is absolutely politically autistic. You neither listen nor learn, and then Mr. President has the boldness – and I'm going to use this term – of self-proclaiming "the Government for all." Well, look, for professionals who work in mental health, they're not their government; for users, neither are they; for family members, neither are they; for all these associations that work in mental health, neither are they. And for more than half of the Greek citizenship, for this whole left-wing bench that yesterday was rejected all of them and each of the amendments that were presented to the budgets – more than a thousand amendments – are not their government either. Look, I wonder: what motivates the People's Party to vote against this initiative? Maybe you think mental health is perfect? I don't think so, because if you didn't, you'd live, I'm not saying it on another country, on another planet. I suppose the reason is in its pre-power and its political sovereignty, which leads them to vote against absolutely everything that has been presented since the opposition. And look, I insist on the idea: so, you can't introduce yourself as "government for everyone," because neither sound for everyone nor do I think they become government. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u247	Thank you, Mrs. Acuña. Motions vote
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u248	We're going to vote on the motions. We shut the doors. We proceeded to the vote on Mrs Pontón Mondelo's motion, which accepts the amendment of the Joint Group as an amendment to addendum.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u249	Let the first point be voted on separately.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u250	The first point of the motion? Good. [[Assentment.]] So we would vote, firstly, on the first point of the motion and then on the rest of the points and then on the amendment to add the Joint Group. Vote of point 1 of the G.P. Motion. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo, on the demands to be made by the Greek Government to the Central Government in relation to the beaches of the state-owned highways in Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 28; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. This point is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u251	We then vote on the remaining points of the motion with the amendment of the Joint Group. Text vote on the G.P. Motion. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo, except point 1, on the demands to be made by the Government of Galicia to the Central Government in relation to the fees of the highways of state ownership existing in Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 28; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. The motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u252	We voted on the motion by the Parliamentary Group of the Gaga de Left Alternative, at Mrs Solla's initiative, which no amendments have been tabled. G.P. Motion vote. by Alternative Galaga de Left, at the initiative of Da Yolanda Díaz Pérez, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in matters of personnel and the quality of assistance of public social services. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 28; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u253	Finally, we voted on the motion by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mrs Acuña, which accepts the amendment of the Gaga de Left as an amendment to addendum. Text vote on the G.P. Motion. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da María Carmen Acuña do Campo, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in the field of mental health. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 28; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u254	We continue with the development of the agenda. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. Together, at the initiative of Da María Consuelo Martínez García, on the beginning by the Government of Greece of the complaint process to SEPI of the ownership of Navantia facilities in Fene.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u255	No amendments have been tabled to this non-law proposal. You have the floor, for your formulation, Mrs. Martínez García.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u256	I present today this non-law proposal which has been rejected as an amendment and which I want to defend today. In operation since the 1940s, Astano soon became the backbone of the local economy of Ferrolterra as well as a world leader in the construction of oil tankers, providing stable, quality employment to more than 6,000 people. But the entry into the European Economic Community, which is traumatic for almost all the Greek sectors, was subject to the first veto and the beginning of a conversion saga that left in only 300 workers the more than 6,000 of the 1970s. Ast was then directed towards a very specific and very specialized market, the offshore platforms, and when it seemed that it consolidated its wake-up appeared the second veto, which only left margin beyond the military sector, shortly after the merger of the old Bazan and which had given rise to Navantia. The railway yards that in recent years have been surviving with possible contracts today, after the People's Party's refusal to build the floating dam, seek workload in the marine windmill on a new conversion. For three decades now, the district of Ferrol has fallen into disgrace and never recovered again – what a noise! –...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u257	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u258	This is how the city of Ferrol increased from 91,402 in April 1974 to 70,389 today. In the 1970s while other countries were preparing to take protective measures for their respective shipping industries, with internal market empowerment and subsidies compensating differences between the normal price of the ship and the Japanese price, the Spanish State was looking elsewhere, when the INI owned 50% of EASA, 50% of Astano and 100% of Bazán. In April 1974 it reached the maximum quota of 7.8 million tons of gross log and at the beginning of 75 it had already fallen five million. From that point on, the fall has been severed, studies have survived and restructuring measures have been adopted until they reach the plan of viability of the major yards of the year 82. The so-called naval conversion generated a multitude of protests and strikes, but the Government of Felipe González sacrificed Astano, remaining this yard subject to the veto of the construction of ships for the Civil Navy, a veto that just rose on January 1, 2015, accompanied by some announcements of charges for the wind sector. There is still no official pronouncement by Navantia, nor by its sole shareholder, SEPI, around the new stage, but a recognition of the union representation of workers and workers, who have been claiming for years to draw up an industrial plan that sets the targets for this factory, which has paid as no other industrial conversion and entry into the European Union. The prospects of the shipbuilding sector are very interesting in the coming years, not only for the manufacture of larger ships to transport gas or oil but also for offshore activity itself, with the construction of complementary ships to provide services to their own platforms and even to the marine windmill. The unions in Navantia Galicia blame SEPI for not working to incorporate these new markets with guarantees, boosting the areas of R & D, building the floating dike and forming personnel. Navantia, according to Sepi itself, is a company dedicated to the design, construction and integration of ships primarily in the military field, constituted from the segregation of the military activity of Izar and the agreement signed between Sepi, Izar itself and the majority state trade unions. Navantia is one of the main military naval systems in the international market with the ability to cope with new constructions, maintenance and transformation. It is one of the few companies with state capacity of design, development, production, integration and integrated logistic support of platforms, propulsion and ship systems of combat and delivery of fully operational ships. But that's the military Navantia. We're talking about the civilian yard. Therefore, it is essential to equip this yard with activity, given that delivery of the fleet ship to Pemex is scheduled in July 2016 and that the BAM keel will not be carried out until at least April of the same year. The works council continues to claim support for the shipbuilding sector and a strategic plan that is essential for the Ferrolterra bar, and now the European Union General Court has just annulled the European Commission's decision against the tax law that was in force between 2007 and 2011 and that Competition has declared illegal following a demand from European shipyards headed by the Netherlands. European justice now states that tax law was not a state aid, exempting investors from returning the tax benefits obtained and condemning the costs to the Commission. Pymar will study the legal possibility...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u259	Quiet, please. Please be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u260	...to repair the damage and prejudice caused to the private naval sector. During the three years that the case was in the courts, the Spanish State developed and implemented an alternative financing system to the new tax read at the end of 2014 which helped hire 25 ships in the state, but none of them in Galicia. The Greek community was the most affected by the declared illegality of the tax read by the European Commission, not only by the amount of returns, which accounted for 50% of the total, but by the total paralysis of the sector, which subjected the annulment of the old tax read that now Luxembourg considers completely legal and that it has cost 8,000 lost jobs, six closed shipyards and an almost fatal injury to the Greek naval sector; not to what I have subjected to Ferrolterra of Emigration, Poverty, Loss of Population and the Future. Ferrolterra has been suffering from the anti-Galiza policies of the Spanish State, which has paid as no one to enter the European Union both in the dairy sector and in the sea as well as in the shipbuilding sector. We don't know, we haven't spoken to the Board -- we haven't heard it -- about whether it's going to act, if it's going to do something about this ruling that recognizes the legality of the tax read. Only Pymar was pronounced, only the workers and the workers of the naval. Galician Union's changing, it's amazing! It's an incredible thing that a measure that cost the closure of six Greek shipyards, which I assumed the dismissal of 8,000 workers and workers and which is now considered to have been misused does not have a single criticism or a single declaration from the German Government. Therefore, in view of the social, economic and labour importance that the maintenance of the activity of the shipbuilding sector, in particular on the Navantia-Fene shipyard, has for Galicia, in view of the inoperability of SEPI to carry forward cargo of shipwork, not in wind, but in order to build ships, in the interest that Navantia-Fene continues to build ships, up to the real possibilities of attracting civilian employment following the European court's judgment knowing that Navantia has trained and qualified personnel for shipbuilding, this non-law proposition urges Together to initiate the complaint process of SEPI of ownership of Navantia-Fene installations pursuant to Article 4 of Law 5/2010 of 26 June, to promote the naval sector of Galicia. I hope that this time the People's Party will bet on Galicia, bet on the ship and vote in favour of this initiative. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u261	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. Intervention of parliamentary groups. By the Galician Nationalist Block, Mr. Jorquera Caselas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u262	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now debating an initiative that reminds us of the decisions that others have taken for us, using Galicia as a currency of exchange, condemned a pointer yard in Europe to be little less than a huge industrial cemetery. In 1986 Astano paid for the broken dishes of a negotiation for the integration of the Spanish State into the European Economic Community, which was behind our interests, as was the case with fishing and the dairy sector as well. The old Astano becomes the only shipyard in the European Union to which it is forbidden to make ships. Despite that, and as the spokesperson of the Mixed Group has already explained, Astano knew how to adapt and become a vanguard yard in the offshore sector, becoming a fully productive yard that even had to subcontract workload to meet the demands, until the second veto arrived in 1997: the European Union establishes that mobile platforms were included in the prohibition on building ships, condemning the Fene shipyard to become subcontractor of the rest of the public yards. But, ladies and gentlemen, we could still add a third veto, the veto that continues today decreeing the central government with the complicity of Galician Union. During all these years neither the Union nor the Central Government did anything, first, to anticipate the end of the veto, and, second, to prepare the yard for the new scenario after the end of the veto, at last in January of this year. Today Fene has an aging and totally insufficient template to cope with the workload that could absorb this yard, and even the occupation of its installations for the manufacture of sea windjackets is causing it to be used as a pretext to prevent the construction of ships on this yard. The last example we have in the four oil tankers in charge of Navantia: the bulk of the workload will go to Cadiz and in the Ferrol River only the blocks of bow will be built which, at most, will give 300 people to work for 21 months; everything indicates that Fene is not assigned the construction of any oil tanker by the alleged occupation of the factory in the marine wind project. For years, German nationalism insisted that the shipyards in the Ferrol River had to operate in all the fields of shipbuilding, we warned that it was a mistake to guide their production only to the field of military shipbuilding that made them dependent exclusively on public procurement, a public procurement, in addition, recessive in a crisis context and less public sector spending capacity. On the other hand, the German Government accepted that Navantia would become dependent on the Ministry of Defence, thus accruing its vocation to operate almost exclusively in the military field. Furthermore, he has done nothing to develop the Law on the Promotion of the Galician Naval Sector, adopted unanimously in this Parliament, which is a law that empowers the Union to negotiate with the State, as proposed by the Joint Group, the use of the assets of Navantia which are not being used for the construction, repair, recycling or processing of ships or other floating devices. But it also enables the Galician Board to be present in the governing bodies of Navantia, something fundamental for Navantia not to discriminate against the shipyards of the Ferrol River in its commercial policy – in fact, Navantia's own operating data shows that the most profitable shipyards, if there is a load of work, are those of the Ferrol River; something fundamental also so that Navantia does not concentrate the civil construction in the Bay of Cadiz, actually imposing a new veto on Fene, and also fundamental to the fact that it is so often debated in this floating House, because the floating saying is not a necessity for Navantia as a company, which already has one in San Fernando, is a necessity for Galicia, it is a necessity for Ferrol and its county. For all these reasons, we shall vote in favour of the non-law motion tabled by the Joint Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u263	Thank you, Mr. Jorquera. Parliamentary Group of the Alternative Left Glaga, has the word dona Yolanda Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u264	Good afternoon. Since the coincidence in the defense of the public naval sector of this country as an absolutely strategic sector, it is today to speak again about that lung which is about to fade and which, without a doubt, due to the policies of the People's Party – the budgets that leave us in the state, but also the budgets that leave us and which have just adopted alone the People's Party – will indeed allow to condemn the liquidation. We are talking not only about the floating dam, which in itself is very relevant, an infrastructure that exceeds 100 million euros – EUR120 million – and which is essential for the area of cliffs of Navantia Ferrol, but also – I insist – many other investments which, from the state budget, – of course, breaching the electoral promises – do not plan to execute the Government of the People's Party. From Mrs Martínez's intervention I am discrepant in the part she talked about conversions. In the district of Ferrolterra, unfortunately, there was no conversion, we had an euphemism that was called conversion – may we have had conversion, if we had this region conversion, obviously it would not be as it is – but there was conversion. Since I was born, in the 1970s – which is true, of course – so far, what we are seeing is going through a sector that is strategic, which produces added value – of the few who do so in our country – and which is unable to go forward – I insist – by the policies of the People's Party. There are a lot of nuances here too, because what the public naval sector needs right now is a lot of things, one of them has already been said by fellow Jorkera and of course it is to comply with the law that was approved in this Parliament, especially with the participation of the Galician board in the company's decision-making structures, of course yes. But we have to change a lot of other things, because we don't forget that Navantia Fene-Ferrol is a single company at this time, we don't forget that last summer a very relevant decision has been made, which is that it is dependent on the Ministry of State of Defense – it's not a minor thing – and this has greatly made it difficult for many of the decisions that have to be made in Navantia. Having said this, what are the emergencies of the public naval sector? For the public naval sector emergencies, although the class unions are divided on this so-called industrial plan, the truth is that the majority position of the committee demands an industrial plan to define the uses and the future of the two factories. But above all things we need a floating dike, we need a dry dike, we need something fundamental in Navantia Fene and, indeed, that's what Mr. Jorkera said. Of course, what the engineers are pointing out is that it's not compatible with the development potential of Iberdrola, which today is occupying the yard to manufacture jackets, to manufacture ships and other kinds of artifacts. So this is the gravity; that is, through facts the People's Party is, let's say, clearing up the sector now that there is no formal veto on the part of the European Union, but without allowing us to do what we know to do. This is the urgency, clearly defining what the future of that magnificent yard we are lucky to have in our country will be. Of course, from AGE we continue to insist that this task is incompatible, the occupation of the port crane, the largest in the world even today, makes it absolutely impermissible. Other of the emergencies we've been asking for since we arrived in this Parliament is that in particular on the Navantia Fene shipyard we have a staff of around 300 people, but 264 of these 300 people have an average age of 60 and it's not possible to support a living company that needs powerful technological changes with that staff. And what's more, if today we were lucky enough to make an oil tanker or a large ship, we wouldn't have template to do it. This is the reality of what is happening in this region and I am making use of what has been said about the occupation we have in the naval sector. It's not true, and, as it isn't true, the workers and workers came out again on the 13th of this month of December in claim of something fundamental such as the workload for the public naval sector. The rest is to condemn this people to hunger, we are unwilling and, even though with many nuances in Mrs Martínez's initiative, we are going to vote in favour of it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u265	Thank you. Socialist Group, Mr. Losada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u266	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen. The truth is that this morning, comrade González Santín and in general all the Members of the House had the opportunity to enjoy an economic lesson from a professor of the People's Party who has a certainly irrefrable vocation and spoke to us about the magnificent behaviour of the Greek economy. Well, he was talking about the magnificent behaviour of the Greek economy and today, the same day, the official regional accounting data of Spain from 2014, are the data approved by Eurostat and are therefore data likely to be internationally compared. I persevere in the footnotes: Galicia, GDP growth in 2014: 0.4% – second by tail –; average of the Spanish set: 1.4%. If we take – and I follow the National Institute of Statistics – the average growth data between 2010 and 2014, the Spanish set decreased GDP by 1% and Galicia by 1.5%. Or there's a fourth dimension that I don't know or really miss the truth when it comes to the development of the Greek economy in the years of the Feijóo governments by the voices of this group. I believe that the naval industry is one of the paradigmatic examples; first, the whole industry – and I still quote the INE, so that it does not seem that I quote heterodox sources, trade unions or revolutionary NGOs –, that is five days ago: Industrial Business Survey: "The Galician industry lost nearly 6,000 jobs in 2014". You see, someone's grown up watching 4.0. He said that I believe this, the naval sector, is a paradigmatic example of this industrial failure. I'm, of course, not going to demagogy, it's true that the industrial sector in Ferrol has been dragging problems for decades, it's an objective fact. Ferrol is one of the few municipalities, out of very punctual places of the big city industry belts, in which the population has decreased since the 1970s by 25%; it has reached nearly 100,000 inhabitants, today it has less than 70,000 inhabitants. It's a brutal crisis, a crisis that is statistically pale with general income data, because it's true that the average pensions – precisely for that past on the one side of the military and on the other side of public naval construction – are far above the average of the rest of Galicia, but if we take the salary income data, not from retirement pensions, Ferrol's situation is dramatic in terms of purchasing power capacity. In this context, in fact, the unions and the workers go out into the street, a voice said a moment ago, on December 13th was the last demonstration. The People's Party continues here in this advertising and propaganda strategy telling us that nothing happens, telling us that there really is a kind of world, I don't say happy, but almost half happy; but reality is imposed: Navantia Fene has 11,000 workers and today he has less than 300 workers, and Navantia Ferrol has almost 10,000 and today he has less than 2,000 workers. It is true that there are then subcontracts with truly Leonine working conditions, but that is not the model, of course, for the Socialist Party. There are complaints from the Enterprise Committee that this group fully shares: the construction of the floating deck, increasing the collaboration agreements with the University of Coruña, the reinforcement of the turbine factory, a medium- and long-term investment plan – which is fundamental in an industry that also has medium- and long-term manufacturing processes – the possibility of direct recruitment by the yard – I insist, of direct recruitment – a labour policy that favours the incorporation of young people and, without any doubt, intensify markets. I believe that this is the problem, but I also believe that the segregation of the Navantia Group in autonomous terms is not the solution, it is not the solution because there are economies of scale in terms of research, in terms of innovation, in terms of internationalization of market search in an in addition to fierce competition in the international market which makes the size of companies so important and, of course, in Galicia precisely one of the fundamental problems we have in the industrial sector is the average size of companies. That is the fundamental reason why we are not going to support this initiative. I insist that the needs of the Ferrol naval are dramatic, the solution is to act in terms of market search innovation and that is better, in terms of economies of scale, from a large business group. It's true that we haven't shared what President Feijóo said two years ago, who asked Navantia to compete at prices with China, we don't want to compete with Chinese shipyards, we want to compete with Denmark shipyards. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u267	Thank you very much. Popular Group, Mr. Tellado Filgueira.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u268	Thank you, Madam President. We are faced with an initiative that can be ranked, without any doubt, within the category of nonsense. But the nonsense is not that the Joint Group proposes it, the nonsense is that it supports the Alternative Left-Galgae, and more than the hand of a ferrola, and fool it is that it is supported by the Nationalist Block Galego by the hand, too, by a ferrolan. It is my duty to read them the initiative: "The Galician Parliament urges the Galician Council to initiate the SEPI complaint process of the ownership of Navantia facilities in Fene." You want to make up a Galician Navantia, a little Navanta. Well, that's just a joke, just from parties that have that minifundistic mindset. For you, the old Astano is an idle asset, but it's not true, the old Astana is a productive asset, a productive center that today has a workload and therefore has a future in the marine wind. The only thing I do indeed agree with Mrs Martínez is in this recognition in the text of the initiative that the problems of the naval sector are behind the 1980s and the socialist governments, that is the reality and from there come all the productive vetoes. But today, Mrs Martínez, Navantia-Fene is a productive center of the Navantia Group that has the own workload of the marine windman with two contracts – not ads, two contracts – obtained by the UTE Navantia-Windar Renewables: the contract for the twenty-nine sea windman jackets and the contract for the construction of five floating macrostructures for the Stateile subsidiary. In the coming months more contracts will be made in the marine windmill and that will allow the old Astano to dedicate himself... yes, Mr. Jorkera, yes, more contracts and that will allow us to enter into the construction of a series of jackets, and that is work and that is future for the Fene shipyards. So, Navantia-Fene today is a productive asset, not an idle asset. You propose segregating Navantia-Fene of the rest of the Navantia Group and that's just a barbarity, a nonsense. Navantia-Fene would stop belonging to a large company and become a metal workshop based in Perlio. That's the project you have for the naval sector. By the way, much ignorance, because you don't know that SEPI is not the holder of the facilities of the former Navantia, the holder of the facilities of the former Navantia is the port authority of Ferrol-San Cibrao, Navantia what it has is an administrative concession. Therefore, what you propose, as I nod Mrs. Díaz's head, is simply a barbarity proper to demagogues. Therefore, it does not contain with us on this absurd journey. I am sorry that Mrs Martínez in this historic story of the naval sector had forgotten the conversion of 2004, a conversion that is a lot of the problems that the naval sector is facing today. In this conversion it is decided by a socialist government that the shipyards of the Ferrol River are primarily destined for military construction and that veto is extended ten years, and therefore the responsibilities of the veto are there. By the way, a conversion to which, while the Government was making that decision, the Nationalist Block of Wales instead of saying no, would approve the general State budgets of 2005, Mr. Jorquera, and therefore you also have a lot of responsibility for the success. Mrs. Díaz too, because that conversion to which the People's Party was opposed only welcomed trade unions as Labour Commissions, strongly linked to their political formation.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u269	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u270	Today there is a burden of work on the shipyards of the Ferrol River: the fleet of Pemex, the BAM for the Spanish fleet, the design of an LHD for the Turkish fleet, the four heads of the four oil tankers and the contract signed with the Australian fleet for the management of the construction of three destroyers on the shipyards of the city of Adelaide. So it's true that it's insufficient, but today there's a load of work on the yards of the Ferrol River. And when they weren't there, what were their groups doing? To be complicit with the Socialist Party, that is the reality, and especially Mrs. Díaz, who then ruled with the socialists in the Council of Ferrol. You're talking about the floating dike and, Mrs. Díaz, who said no to the floating dike was Mr. Almunia and I think that little or nothing we have to say about it, and less after what we know about the famous tax read. Therefore, we have certainly not supported this initiative. We want Navantia-Fene to continue to be part of this great group that is Navantia and that today has a workload on the shipyards of the Ferrol River, that's our project. We bet for diversification, for civil construction, for military construction, for reparations and for diversification that is supposed to be the marine wind. Mrs. Díaz, this is the last debate we'll have on both sides and, as the courtesan does not take the brave away, allow me to, with a Christmas tone and go to the popular fraternal, tell him that the enemy running away, the silver bridge. Anyway, what I'm telling you, Mrs. Díaz, is that so much peace you take as a rest you leave in this House. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u271	Thank you, Mr. Tellado. Mr Martínez has the floor if you'll be allowed to speak, please. Give Mrs. Martínez a voice, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u272	Thank you, President. I know, Mrs. Díaz, that public naval problems are bigger, but I think the first step to solve them is that Galicia has autonomy to decide what she wants to do with her naval sector, because I think if we wait for Madrid, we can wait for many centuries. Galicia has the right to defend its economic interests, to defend its naval sector and, of course, has no meaning that a civilian shipyard belongs to Defense. I recognize that there is a need for a floating dike, but it will have to be in this Parliament and autonomously where the floating dike is decided to be built because it will not decide or approve it by the Government of Spain. I also recognize the need for the training of the staff board, which is obviously abandoned because it decides to close a yard. Mr. Tellado, you're the king of nonsense, but it's just that in addition to the nonsense, I'm alarming myself... what alarms me not, what you really translate into your intervention is that my mindset is minifundistic because you understand that Galicia is a colony of Spain and that doing something on the Greek level is something minifundist, something of no importance. You're a Spanish imperialist and that's why Galicia considers a state branch. [[Protests.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u273	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u274	But, look, you also say that the Fene yard is working, that it has a job in the windmill. So you're talking about something that's not a yard, because the shipyards – as far as I know – make boats, don't make other stories. What's really there is total and absolute abandonment, you've decided to close Navantia-Fene, they've decided that this public yard disappears and they don't care about Ferrolterra's situation. As Mr. Jorquera said very well, we are talking about a Greek interest, not a state interest; the state already has a yard and a floating dike in Cadiz. And since Galicia obviously does not have the weight of either demographic or political within the state because the People's Party has no politicians with weight to defend Galicia's interests in the Spanish state,...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u275	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u276	That's how we're going. That's how we're going. I am also sorry that the Socialist Party does not support this initiative, since it has a great deal of responsibility for what happens in the German naval sector. [[Murmurs.]] Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u277	Thank you very much. Quiet, please. Voting of non-legislative proposals
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u278	We voted for the non-legislative proposal of the Joint Parliamentary Group. No amendments were tabled, so we voted on it as presented. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. Together, at the initiative of Da María Consuelo Martínez García, on the beginning by the Government of Greece of the complaint process to SEPI of the ownership of Navantia facilities in Fene. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 10; votes against, 54. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u279	We continue with the development of the agenda. Interpellation of G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of D. Daniel Rodas Chapela, on the measures being taken by the Government of Greece to demand the modification of the current quota-sharing model in the field of the siege
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u280	Mr. Rhodas has the floor to make an inquiry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u281	Good afternoon to all and to all. They've been camping in front of Galicia's board for more than two months, claiming that the president of all the Greeks will listen to them, claiming that with this division the fleet is going to engage in an illegal activity or end up on the yard to the junkyard and denounce an agreement they've never accepted, the puppet leaders of the PP, yes. They are the owners of the siege, where the owner of the boat is at the same time the boss, they are small companies that generate a lot of jobs –8, 10, 12 crew members – and that are the livelihood of many families in our coastal villages. It's a fleet that was a pioneer in regulatory measures, as early as 1982, its self-regulation with the establishment of daily quotas and weekly rest in order to maximize its economic profitability and preserve available resources. Other fleets and some Greek fences – you have to say – outside our waters have not adapted to this model that has been implanted throughout the Cantabrian northwest and have been able to fish without measure within the inland waters of some communities. Others, like Portuguese, have fished until recently the 7 days of the week, which also made it possible for them to fish much more than the Welsh fleet did. Until two years ago, the distribution model in Galicia was universal, the fishing licence provided equal rights and was only regulated by a maximum catch and weekly rest. A model that was changed by the Magram, with the rejection of most of the Galician fleet, according to some supposed historical criteria that give precedence, nothing more and nothing less than 70%, to catches made between 2002 and 2012. A new division which removes the social and economic criteria of the so-called cocoa Regulation 1389/2013 on the common fisheries policy and which benefits those vessels which have developed an Olympic fishing – they have fished everything they could – by discriminating those who have practiced responsible, sustainable and profitable fishing. A mafia, discriminatory, arbitrary, non-equity model that promotes inequality and confrontation in the sector, and that has nothing to do with other existing models – such as drag, long-range or steering – that are almost linear. Thirty-three years of regulation and now we're applied to an individual division that benefits a few to the detriment of the vast majority of the fleet. If not, let's see how the main species of this sector are distributed: in the jurelo – our main species – Galicia, instead of being a single sea, is divided, as its lords know, in two areas, Atlantic IXa and Cantabria VIIIc, which causes great distortion to the Galician fleet, because many of those who wear out their quota in the VIIIc must move to the southern part of Fisterra if they want to continue fishing for it. Although the biggest discrimination is not this, the administrative, but it's in the current model of distribution. If not, we see: in zone VIIIb there are one hundred ships and approximately 3,000 tons are divided; in individual management there are twenty-eight ships and they have nothing but 52% of the quota; on the other hand, in joint management there are seventy-three times more - and they manage 48% of the quota. In the IXa area they fish one hundred twenty-three ships that are distributed approximately 7,500 tons, individual management? Thirty-two ships carrying 41% of the quota; in joint management, ninety-four ships - three times more - carry 59% of the quota. But also within the individual distribution group discrimination is very pronounced. Look, with the individual distribution in zone VIIIc it turns out that twenty-eight ships carry nothing but 1,500 tons, but from these ships it turns out that nine had 65% of the quota. In the other area, in IXa, it turns out that thirty-two ships are the total, but twelve of them carry nothing but 61% of the quota. If we make the global calculation, we can see how these nine ships own 34% of the total quota of the jury in the VIIIc or how the sweet ships in the Atlantic part own 33% of the total quota of the jury. As we can see, most of the catches of the jury are in the hands of a minority. But the same thing happens in the garden, with the addition that the garden is distributed in the European Union and this distribution is completely discriminatory with the Spanish State. If not, see: in 2014, the European Union was 60,000 tonnes; Spain 40,000, and the Greek siege, 4,000. This is the reality. But in addition, in 2009, it turns out that 105,000 tons of garden landed, when there was a quota of 25,000, and in 2010, 45,000 tons, when there was a quota of 24,600. For this overfishing we were sanctioned, but this sanction we had to pay linearly between the entire fleet. So if we pass the quota, we distribute it on equal terms, but rights don't, rights now turn out to be accumulated even if there is overfishing. In the new model of distribution, therefore, these supposed historical rights of 70% include all that they illegally fished and thus come out of a disproportionate result: Cantabria with forty-three ships, 23.6%; Basque Country with fifty-eight, 48.6%; and Galicia with one hundred fifty-four ships – three times more than Basque Country – 24.8%. With this misery and with the same criteria we apply the individual division and we see what happens also within our own Galician fleet: in individual management, with thirty-two ships, they carry 42% of the quota; in joint management, with one hundred twenty-two ships – four times more boats – it turns out that they only carry 58%. The fourth part of ships accumulates as much quota as the rest, this is reality. But maybe we can talk about sardine, with a worrying stock. When we were demanding measures similar to the sardine recovery plan of the year 2000, the Counsellor announced that she was optimistic because this species was subject to quotas, that she was not aware that there were problems in the sardine or that she was evaluating the draft of the Maple that liberalized the tops to be on equal terms with the Basques. Does he remember when he said to defend the plan of Galicia and Madrid, in the past, it turns out that he published an order that completely ignored what was produced by the sector and endorsed by the Galician Fisheries Council, fully loading the criteria for reducing days, from the tops, measures to protect alevinos or the fences? Example: subsidised unemployment, which has been a total fiasco and, today, has not yet been paid for last year's unemployment. But maybe we could talk about the mouth and that famous engagement of the Secretary General of Fisheries, Carlos Domínguez, who managed to get Galicia to touch a portion of 1.14 % – that's 57 tons – and you never said anything. So this is the model that you're applying to the preferred species, a model that means dynamizing the model of regulation and sustainability that was being driven by Galicia, which favors a minority and ruins the vast majority, which does not take account of the number of jobs or the social impact, which does not include minimum quotas that allow the viability of any vessel with a circle licence, which does not regulate the maximum quota per crew member and does not include an integral portion of all species. Those who have carried out an Olympic fishing – that is, they have fished more and should be sanctioned – increase their fishing opportunities, but that they have fished more does not mean they need any more, just the contrary, and new values will be introduced: now it attaches the profitability of a few to the detriment of the survival of most. By decree they just ruined all those new entrepreneurs, those young people who in the time of crisis chose to buy a boat, and they cause the division of the sector itself and its confrontation.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u282	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u283	The division perpetuates inequality and even increases proportionally according to the increase. In continent arts, and not to speak. Our right is four times lower than the Basque, it has no courage that we only fish four days a week or fish 6,000 or 7,000 pounds of interest or parsley a day. So, Counsellor, what we bring here is an inquiry to ask you what you're going to do with the ruin that's causing the fleet of our country's siege. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u284	Thank you, Mr. Rhodes. The sea councillor has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u285	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Rhodas, first of all, I would like to reiterate here a question which, despite being repeated, I believe has not been clear to you: the order of the General Secretariat for Fisheries of the Macgram setting up the division literally collects the agreements reached between representatives of the various sectors and the General Secretariat for Fisheries in December 2013. It should be remembered that at those meetings were present and the representatives of the ships of the siege census of the north-west Cantabrian calator; I do not distinguish between each other, but in that representation were included the representatives of the Acerga and others of the remaining Galician fleet. I say this because I think it is necessary to clarify it before addressing your first question, which questions what measures the Government is taking to demand the change of the current model of distribution. I think it would be worth pointing out that Junta is looking for those same representatives or their successors to determine what they want to do with the agreement and their future, looking for the one who best fits their fishing model and always knowing where we want to go and what the consequences are. And I'm saying this because, when fishing management is considering any change, you have to be very clear on what is required, you do well to calculate not to get results that, far from solving a problem, contribute to aggravating it. This is the case of what you've been considering in the campaign, which they were demanding or even demanding a new division based on socio-economic criteria in turn based solely on the number of crew members, where I have to explain again that Galicia would not be as well stopped as some of them are transmitting to the public. If we did the distribution by number of crew members, we would have some results quite distant from the goal of finding more quota, because we could earn a little bit in the yard, on the joint quota between VIIIc and IXa, and we would go into the distribution of the Andalusian siege of the Gulf of Cadiz, already with the TAC and together; we could lose in the jury, earning something in the VIIIc – always less than 10% – and thinking that the quota is smaller and we would lose a lot in zone IXa, since we would have to share the quota with Andalusia and the communities of the Cantabrian. In this sense, from 98.7% we would go to 34% in the area where we fish most in the past years and where we accumulate 67% of the total quota of the jury that Galicia has. All of this should also be nuanced by a circumstance in which we should think and which resides in that there are ships in our fleet that would have no bearing to be able to fish in more remote areas, such as VIIIb. I mean, to earn a little we would lose a lot and we couldn't fish much of what we'd like. If you want me to give you a figure on this, sharing among all autonomous communities - including Andalusia -, Galicia would lose almost 20% of our fishing opportunities for the Greek siege as a whole. We believe that a serious and responsible German government can't harm Galicia and, therefore, we must put numbers before we see what course we're going to take. We've thrown them out, the sector knows, and they also know that we, as long as you rip your clothes off, are not going to do anything that harms them, where you want to take them. On his second question, if I consider it reasonable that a cantabrian ship can unload 40,000 kilograms in the port of Coruña while our fleet has regulated catches at 1,000 kilograms a day by boat, I will give you an answer and make at the same time a request: the answer is that I think you're wrong to throw into the ground countless countless fish without thinking about how much you're going to sell and throw prices on the ground; the request is for you to stop making demagogy with these cases, because this ship was taking off your quota as they pulled some of the yellows from the joint quota when they downloaded more than 17,000 kilograms from Ribeira beyond the time you were doing this interpellation. As far as your third question is concerned, I consider it reasonable that the division between zones is so disproportionate, since while in the Cantabrian area you exceed 130% in the Atlantic does not reach 63%, I repeat my previous answer: I do not know very well where you want to arrive, since I do not know whether you want to give up 98% of the quota in zone IXa or if you want more in an area that is inaccessible to the port, since we must also take account of the fleets and their circumstances. So much so that the fleet with base port in zone IXa assumes 60% of the fleet of the Greek siege and that the cargo of the ships is, having its GT, certainly less than those of the north. That's what I think I've brought you two data that you can understand. But when we talk about these issues we must also talk about management, because quotas, when they are taken together, must also be managed and in that duty comes the ability to fish or consume it in the best way to avoid imbalances that make fishing work difficult. Let me give a positive example: the Cambados confrerery managed the quota of nine of its ships and achieved that the December 10 date was consumed 99.71 % of the interest rate in zone IXa, avoiding overpasses and maintaining the fleet activity. Plus, I have to tell you that, within this joint management, the quota can be consumed regardless of where each ship is initially assigned, since it is removed from a common mountain, with this the barrier between areas gets diluted and you can do better management. On his last question about the position of the German Government in the face of the ongoing mobilizations in the search sector, sneezing the loss of the right to fish, without updating the data or criteria of those that have not participated in the sector, I have to say that, as could not be otherwise, this is of the utmost respect. We are in the position to defend the agreement agreed in Madrid and also that of the Galego Fisheries Council so that in the division of the quota corresponding to Spain in the TAC of the width in zone IXa an annual reserve of 10% of the Spanish quota in this area for its fishing by the siege vessels with base port in Galicia in case of the presence of width in the waters of the northern zone IXa. Going to the other question that you mention about closures, without updating the data, I think it strikes me to say that this is your opinion and that precautionary closures are fundamental to avoiding sanctions like the two mismanagements of the year 2009 and 2010 that you referred to. These overfishings were subject to a fine of more than 100,000 tons, although taking into account the work of flexible payment by this government. Finally, you don't understand very well the supposed share failure that you describe and that I don't know whether it's about the locks or about the split. If it's about the closures, I think the overpasses of last year and this by a significant percentage of our fleet demand to make those closures and with greater caution; if it's about the distribution, I think there are some documents that prove that the division, its criteria and its derivations have been approved and even demanded by those responsible for this sector in Galicia, and that we must also take it into account. Now, I ask you to contribute to spreading certain and accurate information, because with these exhibitions and questions it shows some ignorance and confusion, and that concerns me twice, as a member of the Coast Guard service to which it is linked. [[Protests.]] Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u286	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mr. Rhodes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u287	Look, Counselor, I'm already used to making personal references and allusions, okay? I have no problem, I have always dignified my profession, and I hope that it will also move here to this Parliament. [[Applause]] But look, I'm going to tell you one thing: you're telling me that you've lost this model that we've proposed – that we're not, the sector itself, is going to make it 20 percent loss of fishing opportunities. You cheat, Counselor. Why do we have to accept that the alleged historical rights are included?, why do we have to accept that it is calculated from 2002 to 2012?, why? Why do we have to accept that in history we have calculated the excess of quota that some have fished and that we, the great majority, the great majority of us, have not fished it?, why? And why don't you, our representative, value the criteria that we've seen defending these last thirty-three years, Counselor? The historians don't, the historians don't; the regulation, eh, we've been thirty-three years with a daily quota, we've been thirty-three years having a weekly rest, it's more: we're currently the most weekly rest we have, three days a week. And you're also talking about accepting the consensus of the sector. You, who pretends to be a Democrat, do not accept the demand of 80% of the sector and give prominence to those who are not even constituted as an association, do not even have the right to recognize the majority association on the Galician Fisheries Council. So, what consensus are you talking about here? And besides, I have to tell you that the agreement was not endorsed by the sector, it was supported by some representatives of the sector, that when the representative of the majority association came down here, and since then, if you were a responsible advisor, I would try to look at what were the arguments they claimed to put him down; but you were also there, but you were quiet there, forming part of the little ones, you never had a clear position about it. And you're talking about management, that what they collectively manage doesn't do a proper management. Look, I'm going to put you on a cruel case: the Tribal, one of the best ships in the Vigo Circle fleet, has 29,600 kilograms of interest and 20,499 kilograms of Jarda, with no mouth and no sardine, what planning can you carry out to keep your 10 crews? You tell me. Therefore, Counsellor, you have no capacity to respond to the demands of the sector. Two years ago they went to Madrid to make the most ridiculous, they didn't open their mouths to anything, and now they've been without defending the criteria that are more favorable to us. In Galicia, at this point, you're the only thing you're thinking about is getting the sector out again with secondary issues, without going to the bottom of the distribution criteria. The only thing he did, you said, was work; the German Government is not working to ensure the viability of the fleet of the siege. He missed the opportunity in 2014 – when it was the renewal of the PPC, to question the division of the principle of relative stability that gives the Spanish State a total amount of absolutely ridiculous garden – you lost the opportunity again in 2013, when a new division was established, where you were there like the little ones, without taking a proposal to defend our sector in the agenda. You are, therefore, admitting a completely discriminatory division from Brussels, and communicating with an individual division, based on supposed historical captures that dominate...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u288	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u289	...to those who have overfished and who take into account the period that most benefits the Basques and the cantabs, makes us look foolish by not having value to our regulatory measures. In fact, you did, but you worked to finish the Welsh fleet, you never defended or represented the fence sector, your government lost the right of our fleet to fish for the mouth, we lost the possibility of claiming greater increase in the quota of the yard, we lost the possibility of establishing a negotiation where the sustainability, the reduction of catches...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u290	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u291	...and employment was of relevance in the jury, in the yard and in the sardine, and the worst thing is that you've just faced the sector and blamed it for certain troops, and you're doomed to a situation of sinking the fleet; we don't have quota, imposes an impossible individual division to carry out and throws the sector into an illegal activity, the same as the steering, drag and long-lived sector, this is the footprint...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u292	Thank you, Mr. Rhodes. Shut up, Counselor of the Sea.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u293	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Rhodes, first of all, the reference I made to his warning to the Coast Guard service does not intend – not much less – to dignify his membership in this service, and to dignify the Coast Guard service is something that I always feel proud of; precisely, if we review the minutes of previous sessions, we will be able to find their statements where he spoke in a very contemptuous tone of this Coast Guard service; I will never do it Mr. Rhodes, dignify his profession as a member of the Coast Guard service and, of course, also as a Member. But as I dignify this profession as a Member, I ask you, when you come here, to come with truth, to come with reality. [[Applause]] You tell me why we have to compute historical rights; look at, for two fundamental reasons: one, because Spain – basically, Galicia – has been preparing for entry into the European Union since it called for historical rights to be able to be found in our waters; another, because that principle of historical rights is collected in the Community regulation, and so are members of the Acerga, because when they made the communication to the Directorate General of DG MARE in Brussels, they replied that the principles were first the historical and, second, the socio-economic criteria, and these are the criteria that were applied in the allocations of these quotas. Third, tell me the truth always, don't tell me about the weekly rest of thirty-three years ago, I don't ask people to have a historical memory; we're talking about 1991: when a People's Party advisor imposed the weekly rest to dignify the lives of the sailors, there was one who took the sailors out on the street because they didn't want that weekly break, that happened in 1991 – they're not thirty-three years old, they're going, I remember, twenty-four years old. You say that you are not represented in the Galego Fisheries Council; see, in the Galego Fisheries Fisheries Council there is a commission which is the Sector Committee of the Research Committee, and in that sectoral committee of the inquiry you are not representing the sector all those who have chosen the sector as their true representatives; see, in the Galego Fisheries Council there is a commission that is the sectoral committee of the Committee on Fisheries, and in this sectoral committee of the research are representing the sector all those who have chosen the sector as their true representatives and, as Alarga was not yet constituted at the time this committee was created, I invite you, by the chairman himself of this committee, to all the meetings of this committee, and in these meetings we are representing the sector where the data is being worked, and in these meetings we ask the sector where the data is being worked, and in Madrid we ask the sector to defend for the position that it to take to Galicia a joint management of quotas for Galicia meetings to take place to Madrid, because I am not going to Madrid, but everyone else in Madrid, where these representatives of the sector are the sector, and these representatives of the sector, and from those who have worked in the joint positions to say that the position is the position it is the position it is the position it is a position it is represented in Madrid, and we have the best that we have the web, and we have an individual management, and we have the web of the former as a unique management, and we have a single management, and we have a stable, and we have a stable, and we have a stable, and we have a stable, and we have proved offer offer offer offer offer offer offer offer offer offer offer offer the offer offer offer the offer the offer the offer offer the offer the offer the offer of the web of the offer the offer offer offer offer offer offer the offer the offer the offer the offer the offer the offer the offer the offer the offer the offer the offer the offer the offer offer offer offer offer offer the offer offer offer the offer of the offer of the offer of the offer of the web of the offer of the offer the offer offer offer offer offer offer of the offer of the offer the offer offer offer of the offer of the offer of the offer of the offer of the offer of the offer the offer offer offer offer offer offer offer of the offer offer offer offer offer offer offer the offer offer offer offer offer offer offer offer offer offer offer offer offer offer offer offer offer It was the Hungry that he wanted individual management when we advised him to handle it together. In that management, Mr. Rhodes, I ask you not to deceive the House and not to deceive society. Yesterday we had a joint meeting with all the representatives of the sector, and they looked at the data: the average number of vessels that each ship owns is 52,000 kilograms, the average number of vessels that work in Cambados – because the nine ships in Cambados are Greek circles – is 50,000 kilograms. Mr. Rhodes, the important thing is to make good management, the proposal made from the first minute to the sector was joint management and, secondly, a baseline linear quota for all fleets, and from there apply the criteria for sharing. Any other possibility that is based on a number of crew members is to harm Galicia, recognized by the representatives of the Avenger themselves – where they told me, in front of the Secretary General of Fisheries at a meeting, "we know that with this we propose Galicia loses but the Avenger wins"–. Mr. Rhodes, I will never agree that there are criteria for sharing in which Galicia loses. How do I work for the defense of our fishing sector? From 2009 to 2015, the data are there, they are measurable and they're not opinionable: 52% of the increase in fishing opportunities for our fleet in the siege, and that's the line we're going to continue working on; and so, with scientific data, with control over fisheries, we have for 2016, above all, an increase of the Jury in zone VIIIc by 27%, an increase of the Jury in zone IXa by 15%. With control, with management, with arguments you can improve the possibilities of our fleet. Look on the Galician Fishing page for the downloads that were made this year, look at the downloads that were made in the previous years. How the sector doesn't help itself is disparaging, how the sector helps it is working with them, looking for arguments to get those quota increases. The historical quotas, Galicia will never give up on them, because we've always been the ones we've fished the most, and it's the data that favors us the most.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u294	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u295	And, with regard to the overfishing that took place in the years 2009 and 2010, there were also Greek ships belonging to Acerga that were in that overfishing. Nothing else, thank you very much and happy parties.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u296	Thank you, Counselor. Interpellation of G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr Pablo García García, on the repercussions of the agreement and the aid established by the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and the Environment and the Government of Greece for the milk sector
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u297	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, gentlemen. Good afternoon, Counselor. When a month ago – I think I remember that it was 24, so tomorrow I would be a month ago – I told you that, given the circumstances in which I was appointed counsellor, given the real disaster in which the Council was in the past few years – and also given the period that he had left, the political period that we were facing and that he had to live – I told him that you really had little room for action to change things. I want to ratify today but rectify if you misunderstood me, I didn't come to tell you that I hadn't done anything at all, Counselor, but that I had actively participated still within the capabilities that you have and that I have from the very first moment admitted. I suppose you here today, now, will have to assume what the President of the Galician Union said, because he also posed like this, in the question about the subject that was asked this morning by the Galician Nationalist Block and, therefore, I will also refer to the words and to what the President of Galicia said, I understand that you will ratify his words. I've also told you that I didn't give too much attention to the president, so I don't know if you're going to corroborate what the president said; if that's the case, are you sure this president is your friend? Today he re-qualified the August agreement here as historical. No, history did not say, said transcendental; history did not, transcendental, when 3 months later I think no one ever doubted the failure of that agreement as everyone else said. He spoke of the average price of Galicia – Feijó, 27.6; I'm going to assume it: 27.6 according to the data from Feijóo – he said that more than 80% of the Greek producers had already charged more than 25 cents, he spoke and said and asked him in the inquiry, so a question of the interpellation that is how you consider that you have to charge the Greek gainers, which may seem to be a question of pergrullo, a question that doesn't make sense, but of course, would serve us enough to advance, because Mr Feijó is so good when they charge 27.6 as it would be when they charge 23.4 – i.e., it doesn't matter." Therefore, it would be good to know what is the price we each have on our heads, or what we think is a reasonable price and therefore that our owners are either right or wrong to make an assessment; to me it seems to me. I asked this question, of course, to the former advisor on countless occasions, he was never able to answer me, and I did it once too, or he did it to the president, and he never was... the other day I also did it to his CEO in the Commission and he answered that she couldn't tell me, but that if I had a data then I would put it on the table. So, of course, how are we going to evaluate whether the yellow sheep are charging the milk in normal parameters and profitability if we don't even have a average price in the head, everyone, to know if we can then qualify it as good, bad, regular or very bad? I don't know what the price the Galician Union has on its head, or what the price it considers reasonable. Mr. Feijóo, indeed, today at 27.6 he said it was a reasonable thing, but he was already saying it when he was 24 he was also reasonable, with which we are not worth measuring if he's okay or if he's reasonably well. He talked about the approved contract, and the importance... man, the importance of agreeing on a contract formula, because it's relative, it's not that it's not good, but it's relative, it's as if in a company -- for people to understand us -- when the negotiation comes, we agree on the form of the payroll, that is, what's going to be the format of the payroll, because there's the deal I guess it's going to be done. Of course, then, where did we put the numbers to the payroll? That's where the complicated thing is, and that's what was done, the only thing that was agreed upon was the format. Well, it's important, but it doesn't solve any of the problems we had either. He also spoke of the advance of the CAP's aid. Look, in a normal year – and you know this – in a normal year where there are no elections, or Feijóo says nothing of this, nor does he wake up or have any dairy sector, the CAP covers from October 15th to 60%, and the rest in December. That's in a year when there's no elections or Feijó takes care of it. This year, what's done? Well, it's true that it came forward a few days – before October 15 – but it's true that what remains to be charged [...] is of the basic payment, huh?, and of the docket, nothing else, not of the rest, as Feijóo said: "The aid of the advance CAP." No, part of the CAP's aid has been brought forward a few days, what about the other side?, that the FOGA technicians say and answer that the other part is now left by March – i.e., what advanced on the one side we're going to delay it on the other side; therefore we haven't solved much either. It speaks of the 120 million euros that were injected into the sector, to me this when I was saying it reminded me... I take coffee there in Silleda in a bar every Sunday and there's always a neighbor who, when I come in at 9:00 a.m., always says, "Put some coffees for everyone who is today Paul pays for Paul." Of course, Mr. Feijóo injects 120 million euros of CAP aid. Which has so far injected the Council of Galicia into the dairy sector? absolutely nothing, has injected nothing. It looks good, but they pay the rest, i.e.: the aids of the CAP, which are already a right – which, in addition, all European gloves have – are what injected those 120 million. It was then dedicated to contextualizing and listing a number of European countries, indeed, where milk has a price similar to Galicia. Well, I think our dairy sector won't look in the mirror of Poland, that is, if we aspire to be like Poland, but I think it's not in the mirror that we have to look at. By the way, he didn't say anything about France's price, I even claimed it several times, the way he was. He did not, by the way, refer to something he also said, that Feijóo was tired of repeating that the agreement signed here in the Ministry was better than the one signed a few days earlier in France; and that, therefore, that if the demand was to do something here as if it had been in France, that demand was met – he was reading textually because it was so collected –. Price paid here in Galicia, data Feijóo: 27.6; price paid in France in October: 34.4. They already told him: "No, no, Mr. Feijó, but don't do better than France, do it like France." 27.6 and 34.4. To be better than that of France, in what way was he referred to as better than that of France? Because the agreement, in theory, was for the milk to be brought up to producers – whether I understand it or not –. By the way, in France, without the gloves having to go from hypermarket to hypermarket to tractors, looking for the agreement to be met. There was no need and it is being fulfilled, and it is being fulfilled, and it will end, as they said, in the month of December charging at 35. Not here, however, for Feijó the agreement here was better than French. He talked about the 2008 contract. Well, I've explained to you how many times we had quotas in 2008, there was a European legislation that prevented certain things that can be done today, but we're not going to waste time on it. And, of course, a classic: it's the producer's fault. In Asturias a single cooperative, I suppose it wouldn't be what you did for cooperativeism, for example, Milk Food. And in Andalusia a single OPL – I don't suppose it would be what this government did for the creation and foundation of the OPL –. And the top of the hives: in the frivolities and pirouettes section, it comes to say that all that is being achieved in negotiations with the owners – who have been sleeping every day in front of the hypermarkets, being out of the house with their tractors and are being overmarketed by hypermarketing acquiring commitments – is thanks to him, thanks to him!, who have already established I don't know what inspections and I don't know what sanctions, and that's why now the surfaces, after putting out fifteen days, sign the agreement. The surfaces don't know anything about this, didn't they, didn't they know anything about it, none of them said, "No, no, you've already called Feijó and actually you've already put us in." No, they didn't know anything about this -- the gangsters had to throw in there for fifteen days. So, Counsellor, the question is simple: where have you been in this process, where are you and where you are going to be?, where is the Government?, what are you going to do?, you know – you knew or knew – how you were doing this? I mean, that's what the gloves did to go to Hypercor or go to Carrefour and look at how the milk was, and if the milk was under the price...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u298	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u299	...the way they then paid the gain, wasn't this what the Ministry and the Galician board had left to do since they signed the agreement? This was almost the only thing the Ministry needed to do, however, it seems that it was not done. Are you going to do something? Are you going to do something to make those agreements to those who are coming in if they're going to meet? Is there any plan for that? Is there any plan? Look, you've also spoken – and this too now makes a lot of play – of the 100% Welsh brand. One specific question: this 100% Welsh brand, the milk producers who pack, which produce for that brand that is labelled with the "100 % Greek milk" brand, what difference in price have they charged with the producers whose brand is not labelled with that 100% gaga?", what is the price difference that they are charging today?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u300	Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much for the question, Mr. Garcia. That's it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u301	Okay. Could not [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u302	Thank you, Mr. García. The Middle Rural Counselor has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u303	President, ladies and gentlemen, very late. Tell them I've come closer now, after holding a meeting with the representatives of Agrimuralla -- it's not the first meeting we have -- and it's not bad that they have a very different information that they're trying to give them or transmit themselves from here, which is real information, which is the information of every day that they get up and work, and that they're no longer bought with any baladi message or doing a little monologue. And to tell them that after the Madrid signature of the milk agreement last September, livestock, agricultural organizations and even associations, they continue to report low prices they are paying for milk, if not in all cases, but in an important part of them. But also, it is true that, once and for all, it will be the first time that a base is established, and the basis is that dairy agreement, that milk agreement that is being developed now, and for which a regulation is being developed, since the agreements on paper are all right, but there is after you put them into effect; and that is what this council is doing, that is what is doing to the Board of Galicia and therefore that image that if you want to move from that sinking the Greek milk, from that disappearing the exploitation, it will not be real, as much as you can regret some of them. And indeed, this morning Mr Feijóo gave several data, and I will remember the data, the data are as follows: the average July was 27.6 cents; the August measure 27.7; the September average is 28.3 and the October average is 28.7. On the part of the Rural Council, we continue to work – as it could not be otherwise – for the sake of the sector and the improvement of the quality of life of our livestock, and we continue to do so by telling them the truth, not sending them a message that can stay right or create again false expectations that, in the end, they know who is protecting them, who is watching them and knowing when others appear from time to time. And, in fact, the management carried out since the Galician Union with the Ministry of Agriculture has enabled progress in important measures to develop and equip that dairy agreement effectively. And, on that line, one of the main managements carried out from the middle of the countryside, as requested by agricultural organizations, as the farmers were asked to do at the individual level, was the request to the Ministry of Agriculture to forward the publication of the Royal Price Assignment Decree, which is found at the last stage of public information – they have to stay five or six days – and I would also invite them to make their contributions to the same to improve it – of course, the Rural Middle Council has already done so –. In this regard, the text we have made and the approaches we have made to this document are as follows: on the one hand, to propose that autonomous communities – in our case Galicia – also have access, in addition to the Ministry and operators, to information on the prices included in the Information System of Packaged Milk Manufacturers: the SIFALAVE. It is that each autonomy can know the information of the operators whose registered office is on its territory, in order to use these data and take the measures relevant to the protection of our owners. And also proposing to take advantage of the publication of this Royal Decree to amend the regulations on mandatory declarations to be made by the first buyers in order to include the REGA field, the registry of gainful holdings. This inclusion will have different advantages, and the fundamentals are the following: that is the improved reliability of information that will be handled, first because it provides a lot of reliable information to the sector that we have not had so far; secondly, because it will allow production studies, also more reliable at the level of province and municipality; thirdly, because it will avoid errors when determining possible beneficiaries of aid that take into account the milk deliveries of the owners; and, on the other hand, because it will allow the coexistence of several contracts between the same buyer and the same holder who owns several milk production units. We also urge the rest of the representatives of the milk value chain to do their own, and so we move it, because, among all, the goal must be to improve this real decree and, in addition, to adapt it to the current needs. On the other hand, the dairy interprofessional Inlac, where trade unions, producers and industry are represented, has just ratified the new type-approved contract, and you don't think it was easy – i.e. the carrots were continued: some interest was there on the part of some who didn't get out of the way. This was one of the measures collected in the Agreement for the stability and sustainability of the milk value chain, which entered into value last October, and whose signature was also possible by the managements carried out by the Galician Union. In this way, it is shown that this agreement is having a positive impact on the dairy sector, seeing its effects in practice almost since it was carried out, and it is not just a cent issue, ladies and gentlemen, it is a matter of establishing a safe framework for a future, because if not, we will return within a year and a half to be in the same situation. A third element of sector structuring has to do with the figure of the first buyers, and on this line you are also working on this advisor, and on this line you are working on the board, in order to claim, by the Galician Board, greater control in your activity, and greater guarantees to stop the gainful in your contractual relations. In the context of this agreement, since June, we are pushing for a strategic plan to strengthen the dairy sector, with the participation, in addition, of all the agents in the value chain, and when I talk about all the owners, their representatives, I'm talking about the industry, and I'm talking about the distribution, which will be the first time – together with the administration – that they feel on a table, put their duties and do it with a quadrant. And the goal is to encourage the efforts of all actors in the sector to ensure a timely and comprehensive follow-up, both at present and in the future, not only that he comes here as the advisor from time to time and that some Member or Member ask him a series of questions or questions, because this is the greatest benefit we can do for the value chain. And the help – however some say – is more than important, because the aid gives liquidity, and more in this sector that we know it's floating and that takes a time when the situation isn't the best; and there are the help of the CAP, and this is not so easy, and the help of the CAP is a right, but a right that is acquired after fighting in Brussels and going after certain stories that came to give others, that in the end only Galicia would do is lose, and in that sense they received the help of the CAP 85% of Galician beneficiaries, and the amount is about seventy million euros. In total, 28,000 of the 33,000 applicants. The payments that are pending will become effective once the issues arising from the mandatory administrative controls are resolved; and you know the impressive fine that France received in this regard, you know that France was unable to put forward the CAP aid, and you know that Galicia is the one that made the biggest advances in the CAP aid, and that is done because there was a people who have been working everywhere to make this possible; and, in this way, Galicia was Spain's first autonomous community to be able to pay the advance with the aid coupled with the dairy sector, and today even received 28.5 million euros. Thus, autonomous communities such as Valencia, such as Catalonia, such as Madrid, such as Murcia, like the Basque Country, did not pay the advance of the CAP; and others – such as Asturias, Extremadura, Castile a Mancha, Castile and León or Andalusia – are below the payment percentages for Galicia. But there are more help, and the help is needed, and the help is not charity, and they are like the exceptional liquidity for the dairy sector – enabled by the Magram, which is 16.6 million euros for Galicia – that have benefited 5,742 farmers.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u304	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u305	Together with these aids we have those relating to the incorporation of young people – which have also been made effective this month – which is EUR 3.2 million, or compensation compensation for disadvantaged areas, which is EUR 7 million. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u306	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mr. García.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u307	Counsellor, one penny, one penny, one penny. A dish is a dish and a cup is a cup. Besides, a penny – and this too has to explain to Mr. Feijóo – that is to say milk rises in winter and goes down in spring, it's just as old as cows have all names of women, because they are females. It's all at the same time. [[Applause]] I mean, the seasonal rise in milk is just as old as the woman's names in cows, so it's normal that there's a certain rise, regardless of everything; a penny. I repeat, the deal was better. Mr. Feijóo, a penny; you said the data: 28.7 cents; France, 34.4 in October – which was worse than Galicia –, our most direct competitors, those who put milk here; the market, the same market buys milk there most expensive – because the market is idiot –, 35 cents, and invades our market when you can buy milk at 28 cents here; the market is stupid and therefore buys more expensive even though you buy it at 35 cents. That's what you're saying, Counselor. Counsellor, I suppose this was said to you: there were 20,000 agreements in the dairy sector exactly like this one and none were met, but 20,000, 20,000! I'm sure you heard, indeed, that it was the first agreement, that it was historic and that it was transcendental but nothing at all; there were 20,000 agreements, and more, on the role much more beneficial than those. I've already told you again – I don't know whether it was you or the CEO... – the last signing was simple, price of France – i.e. 34,4 plus two cents of transport – that was the last signed agreement between producers, industry and distribution – not met, not met – in 2009. So it's much more transcendental, in theory, than this one; therefore, of history and of transcendental and of the first time, here there's no more first time, Counselor, it's all invented long ago, we won't invent it either you or me. Counsellor, look, the distribution of CAP aid was not only so, but Galicia lost its share of CAP aid because the People's Party made a decision at the state level, that there was no transfer between communities or sectors, and therefore no funds could be moved, regardless of whether the agricultural situation of applicants changed, regardless of historical rights – and therefore they continued to remain within the sectors and territories themselves – and that is why we lost funds; it is true that we won with respect to what we had – a film – but we lost a lot – of course! – if we have made another decision as we proposed here and the whole opposition was in agreement on many occasions. And so, Counsellor, it wasn't as they told you, the CAP distribution was bad for Galicia. But we're going to agree, it's best to read: "It's committed that industries don't banish dairy products from the consumer." He'll look at the hypermarkets with the gloves! Counsellor, are you able to come with me today to Coruña, Lalín, Vilalba, Sarria, where are the owners, and tell them that all they are doing is thanks to Feijóo, is it thanks to his Government? I challenge her now – they're there with the tractors – and let's get there and say, "Today the president said that all you're doing, forget, that's all thanks to Feijóo and to the managements made by Mr. President of the Board." Did you take care of this, Counselor? No, no, no, no. "Standard framework of relations between all chain agents in favour of the sector authorities." I mean, the longer-term contracts between industry and distribution, the contracts they signed yesterday to the owners were a month, is that stability, Counsellor? So what's going on? "Promoting the identification of origin of milk and milk products." Winners are reporting every day what they're finding when they go to hypermarkets. "Share with farmers the revaluation that industries obtain on transfer prices." That's when he got into the distribution and then that money was left in the industry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u308	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u309	I'm telling you that the industry, for the most part, and for everyone's shame, was left with the money that had gone up to his distribution, do you need to tell him? You know it and I too, for the shame of all and, above all, of the Unity of Galicia, and above all of the Union of Galicia. [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] "Promoting the inclusion of the packs clearly visible from the labelling." What's the problem of putting this into action immediately? Let's go to the concrete: how long does the Royal decree take? Don't you see it's cheating just like we cheated a month ago? You're now trusting everything that the Royal decree comes out and that the regulations of first buyers come out; that's what they are in, and therefore they're already fulfilling. That's what's left, five days, ten days? We'll have the interpellation for the next month; if the problem is that you and I are going to be here at least for a while, and we'll see how, in a while, neither that real decree nor that regulation will solve the problem, because, for the problem to be solved, the first thing that has to be there is what we've been saying here for a long time: a Government, and a government that chooses which side it is on, and a government that chooses to be next to the producers – and for now there is not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u310	Thank you. Thank you, Mr. García. Shut up, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u311	Ladies and gentlemen, as this one, none, there was one, in 2009, – which, of course, could bring him to read it and so they had it at first hand – where there were no commitments, they were just good intentions, and now they are regulating themselves and it is quite different what was done in 2009 to what is now being done, with a lot of difference. Of course, the Royal Price Assignment Decree is more than important, different is that there were some who thought we couldn't get it forward, and if it's going to get it forward, and that's what's going to give stability to the sector, and that way we'll know what's paying the distribution to the industry, and the livestock industry; and then we'll know first hand, but not simply because we're going to a hypermarket or because somebody's going to tell it, we'll know first hand who's getting the benefits -- because, if there's any benefits, we have to share them between everyone and, if there's losses, we have to share them between everyone." He told me at a certain point if I was going to visit sheep; look, I told him I was with the livestock of Agromuralla ten minutes ago -- it's not the first time I've met them -- but I've been with them of Vilalba, I've been with them from the Road, I've been with them from Forcarei, I've been with them from Agolada, I've been with them from Mazaricos, the ones from Boqueixón, the ones from Black, the ones from Santa Comba, the ones from Monforte, the ones from Palas, the ones from Savinhao... They haven't been mutiny, they've been acts with the glovers, because I face the glovers and, besides, because they no longer shut up that so simple, so simple and so simple message to put a minimum price; you know that there's no such minimum price and that, besides, who has the negotiating capacity, are the producer organizations, which I must also, even if it's late, congratulate them because they have to start negotiating, and so we'll all go on the same line. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Applause]] And I'll tell you that, in fact, the Council and the Council of Galicia are doing what they have to do, and therefore they're sanctioning; they're sanctioning themselves from Consumption – if it doesn't need me, for that we have the inspectors – and you're getting to that distribution; and you, in addition, have to know first hand. We're doing what's in our hands because, in addition, we know that the weakest part is the sheep, but we also know the gain that must be organized and in that line we are in. And we are, in addition, supporting projects in all fields, and as there are always projects here – which there are also failed ones, it would already be missing –, I would like all the initiatives of my life to be good, and not, there are good ones and bad ones, and in the administration too, but Clesa is going up and doing it well; Lasurgal is taking its first steps and, apart from Lasurgal that is taking its first steps, I tell them, in addition, that García Vaquero has great projects also for Galicia, and in the field of internationalization of our products. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And that's where we're going to work, but we're also still working by injecting money into our bank accounts, because they need liquidity, and in this last quarter of the year, they've received 119 million euros. And we're going to follow the consumption campaigns, of "Gaga 100%", because in that line we have to go not only in Galicia but in the rest of Spain; because you know that if we produce 40% but consume only 7% or 8%, we have to get out of what Galicia is in itself, then we have to go out to the rest of Galicia; and on that line we're working and, at the end, I think it's going to be achieved; and it's going to be achieved with the support of the last Slavon, which are consumers, and it's going to be achieved by the effort that the media also make – because we know that we have a good product – and through different sporting events, together with consumers, also in distribution chains. So, we're working from this council office. Apart from this line, we continue to work in the policy field in order to guarantee security to the sector, while that security will give good fruit to an immediate future – and you know it – and there are open files, of course, yes, and they are records of the Food Information and Control Agency, there are also those of the Galician Institute of Consumption for Noncompliances, there is also the industry, and there are those of the distribution. And like me, you know that maybe we should think about it and say -- I don't know whether with the big mouth or with the little one -- that we weren't ready for the disappearance of quotas; and we didn't talk about it, we didn't talk about how it was done, how it was done, and what the job was done by means of it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u312	Finish up, Counselor, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u313	Galicia, once again, even with greater strength, believes that it will begin to respond to the needs of the market that poses the current set. [[Murmurs.]] No more, tell them I wish you all a good party and, of course, a better year for the Italian countryside.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u314	Thank you, Counselor. Interpellation of G.P. of the Alternative Galaga de Left, at the initiative of D. Ramón Vázquez Díaz, on the management of the catering service in the school dining rooms of public educational centres
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u315	You have the word to formulate your plea, Mr. Vázquez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u316	Good night, everyone. I'm closing this year's plenary session, and I'm going to do it on an absolutely important, radically important subject, as is the catering crisis in this country on recent dates. A crisis that is undoubtedly – from our point of view – one of the milestones within this broad casuistic case of the neglect of the People's Party Government; and it will not deny me, Counsellor, that what happened to this matter is not really serious. That 2,800 children in twenty-one educational centres – children and children – from three provinces of Greece were exposed to an obvious food risk is a really serious fact; that lentils and broth are served to children and children, or foods in wasted plastic trays, due to the process of re-heating, is obviously a very serious fact; that the food served to these students and students had been prepared in clandestine facilities – an eye with this data, often forgotten – previously closed by the health inspection, is really very serious; that the adjudicate companies affected by this lousy matter were condemned – with months prior to this event – by defaulting workers and workers, by failing to comply with the agreement of these workers, by dismissal to workers during their maternal leave, is a very serious fact, and that, in addition, when we talk about companies that have multimillionaire incomes. That the adjudicate companies are all the property of the same real estate promoter is, of course, very significant how the cobiza gadooupas usually lie down where there is a business niche – when they fly the hen of the golden eggs of construction and the speculation of real estate, as is the case with us. But do you know, Counsellor, what is the most serious, the really serious?, the really serious thing is that, after all this happened, no responsibility of any kind had been cleared, that no manager of this service had assumed its responsibilities, that is the really serious one! And I say here with total solemnity that, if you want to be a minimally responsible adviser, you have to stop the technical secretary general, Mr. Oitavén, you have to stop. And I refer directly to your person because the Secretary-General lied on repeated occasions in Parliamentary commission, when from the Alternative Galga de Left we warned you of the situation in which many catering services were found; he lied, in addition, and deceived this Parliament – and therefore the entire citizenship – when he hid and hid data in reference to the concessions of catering services; in addition, Mr Oitavén was the designer and maximum defender of this unfair system of education, and thus expressed it in parliamentary commission. I insist, Counsellor: if you are at least responsible, you must cease the Secretary General or you must directly assume the responsibilities of the event in such a serious event that you have put at risk the health of thousands of minors in our country. Because you're complicit in this neglect and this scam. This same start of the course, you voted against a recommendation made by AGE for the Board of Auditors to monitor the awards to catering companies in school dining services; you refused to vote on this review, the completion of this monitoring report at the beginning of this course. What were you afraid of, gentlemen of the People's Party? You voted in committee against a non-AGE proposal in which we are calling for the empowerment of direct school meals, if you could use fresh food in your own dining rooms, local products, short marketing circuits; all that seemed irrelevant to you. You're actually opposed to a sustainable and healthy model of management of public school lunchers to become a business for a few, which is a service for all and all of the Greeks. What controls are being done, even today, of externalized dining services?, what controls are being applied in a preventive manner?, what pre-adjudication controls are being carried out, when many of the companies who have experienced serious problems in the operation of educational catering have already manifested those problems months and even years before they were tried in Galicia? What kind of conditions are laid down, what recruitment criteria are laid down in order to take over these companies? Look to the extent to which the level of degradation of this service is reached: paragraph 12 of the specification of technical clauses states that food must have an acceptable presentation and quality; the very requirement of technical conditions states that food must have only acceptable conditions of presentation and quality: do we comply with that our children, our daughters, the children and the children of Greece have an acceptable diet, is that the quality standard imposed by the Galician Council on the adjudicatory companies, "acceptable food"?, what is meant by "acceptable food"? Do you know, Counsellor, what are the penalties provided for in the administrative clauses of contracts signed by the Galician Union with catering companies? For I mean: by food poisoning, it is EUR 200 for each child who is intoxicated, that is where the Galician Union values the food poisoning of a child – it is in the administrative clauses of contracts –; by serious deficiencies in cleaning conditions, – serious deficiencies in cleaning conditions – 100 euros of penalty for each day when the service is provided without the necessary cleaning conditions. That's how you take care of the health of Galician children and girls, exactly this is the result of this government's control and monitoring function. What quality control is this? I believe, Counselor, that you have to recognize that your eating management model has failed, that privatization and outsourcing model that – it's evidence – has found its failure, they have to assume. You did not just increase the price of the menus from 3 to 4.5 euros of maximum price – an increase of 40%, and do it in the middle of the acute crisis period for all Galician families! – you increased the number of people who have to pay for this service – from 8% of users who have to pay for 20 % –; I insist, at a time when food is, of course, one of the priority needs for citizenship; you have increased the collection that wins Galician Union from the payment of the families of 1.5 million euros, from the previous model, to 6.5 million euros at the moment – and that is called the budget increase –; you have closed, in five years, twenty-two directly managed dining rooms – and two closed dining rooms, deleted, removed! – and you have doubled the number of breakfasts that provided this service to you through four years ago, and you have reached four years've reached the center of four years. And what is the result of that model?, which endangers the health of Galician children and girls, turns users into simple customers and becomes a service in a pure business – in a business, in addition, a deficit. Therefore, the question is obvious and obvious, and it is if this Government – if you, Counselor – considers that the pre-cooked food, transported at long distances – in this case even from Malaga –, heated and served in melting plastic trays, can gather the necessary quality assurances required for a councillor, for a country, for a government that has to watch for health, for a healthy diet of our children and our daughters. That's the question. Be honest, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u317	Thank you, Mr. Vázquez. The councillor for Culture, Education and Universitary Order, Mr. Román Rodríguez, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u318	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr Vázquez, indeed, is the last debate of the year, and I see it very accelerated, I think you have been very accelerated. We have seen a debate where there is a lot of opportunism, a lot of ideology and a lot of demagogy, of absolute demagogy; because, if you come here to give a rank of crisis to an absolutely punctual fact, because it is something – let me express – absolutely demagogic. You don't deserve to get to that point, you have a lot more dialectic resources and a lot more resources to expose a question and a discrepancy, but fall into a demagogy as exaggerated as you just proved, really, because you're not worthy of it. Too much ideological burden, too much demagogy and very little rigor, very little rigor and very little sentinel. And I'm going to tell you why very little sympathy: because, according to you, we seem to be in Burma or even worse places; and look, I'm going to tell you one thing, Your Honorship – plural lords –: Galicia has a magnificent school dining system, maybe of the best in the state – and I'll put data to prove it – of the best state dining systems, a very good system. And look, a month ago, I also spoke in this House – in this case, Mr. Pombo – and I think I made it very clear: zero risk does not exist, in no order of life there is zero risk; now, that you come here with a service that gives 10.5 million menus a year – point to the amount, 10.5 million menus a year – and, in one case or two cases on time, make yourself a general cause, it's just an absurd, absolute absurd cause. [[Murmurs.]] And look, this government is absolutely sensitive to this subject, and I'm going to tell you one thing: 70,000 menus a day, seventy-two thousand and I pick menus a day, over 400 school dining rooms, 435 school dining rooms; and, when there's a problem, when there's a complaint, when there's an anomaly, this government is acting – and it's shown it and it didn't shake our pulse, it didn't shake our pulse – it was done because the first and most important thing is to guarantee the quality of the service and not make cheap demagogy as you did here. [[Murmurs.]] And look, you're doing an irresponsibility exercise, because you're trying to place a catering service, which lends yourself to the ANPAS... You should know or should know that the ANPAS – which I suppose will deserve your respect – give practically the same number of school menus for catering, and curiously lend the same companies, and should know that there are many councils in the country that, promoting conciliation services – also funded by the Galician Union – manage dining services in many centres, and in many cities where... well, I don't know if Left United, AGE, Block, We – I don't know, any of that galaxy so lexane you give – because I manage, but look, in Ferrol, the Ferrol Council –not governed by PP – has dining service...,
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u319	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u320	...have a catering service; in Santiago de Compostela, I don't know who rules in Santiago de Compostela, but they also offer catering services, with companies that, curiously, were the same as those we terminated the contract. Well, I don't know, what do you want me to say? In Pontevedra the same. The Bipartite, at the moment, children from 0 to 3 years of age – you do, children from 0 to 3 years of age! – put them in catering service. In hospitals... Well, you want to demonize a food management system, well, it's your problem, but it's your problem, but it's an irresponsible, I tell you honestly and I feel I have to say it so clearly, it's an irresponsible statement; because also, of course, you arrive here and you start talking about the company, but it's your problem, but it's an irresponsible, I tell you honestly, and I feel I have to say it so clearly, it's an irresponsponsibility; because also, of course, you arrive here and you start talking about the company as if we had any relationship with that company, which we, precisely, have resolved the contract; you know that this company is going to have a high percentage percentage share share share share share share share ratio services in Andalusia catering services in Andalusia services in Andalusia services in Andalusia – where – where, of course – where, of course, of course, of course, you ask them to see us and ask us and ask us not to tell us that that this company was active in the real sector in the real sector; I know, I don I don I don I know I don I don I don I don I don I don I don I don I don I don' I don I know I don not, I know you I know you know I know you but you know you know you know you know I know I know you know I know I know I know I know I know I know I know I know I know I know I will I know you well how how I know you how how how I will I know you how I will I know you how well I will how I know you how well I will I know well I know how I know how I will I will I will how well I know how I know how I will I know how well I will I know how well I know how well I know how well how well I know how well I know how well I have how well I have how happy I have how happy I have how well since since since since since since since since since since since since since since since since since since since since since since since since since since since since since since since since since since since since since since since since since since since since since since since since since since since since since since since since since since since since since since since since since since since since since since since since since since since since since since since since since since since [[Explained words not perceived]] And, of course, I have one thing that I will not allow you, too, Mr. Vázquez, and I say so frankly. I will not allow you to miss here the honor of a high office of the Galician Union which, if you are responsible – and that is – is to do your work with a very high rigor and a very high responsibility. If you are so bold to miss out on the honor of a professional like the general technical secretary, I really wouldn't go quiet home; because trying to say that you're complicit in something, or that you lie, or that you make – say – questions that you pose here, really – I insist – is not up to your debate – that, you have been shown on many occasions, you are very above this. In any case – I want to make it very clear – you do what you have to do. When an anomaly is detected in the provision of a service, it acts, investigates, opens information files, fines – you seem cheap or expensive, well, but fines are opened; files are opened and fines are planted. And look, what you did was, when there was a real finding of failure, to put in place a resolution file. And, of course, you also talk about privatization here, that's where I say about your ideological question. Now you come to tell me that the provision of a service through a company is a privatization and that is something that does the right, that evil right in which we are here; then, the municipalities of Santiago, Pontevedra, Ferrol, the ANPA that provide catering service in their schools, don't they privatize?, do they not privatize? [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] Look, I think there's a typical... I'm not going to say cynicism because it's not a very pretty word, but there are questions where, if you do them on the left, it's okay, if I do them well, if you do them on the right, it's a loss of privatization. Well, look, Mr. Vázquez, I think that's not the case with you, and I think the dining room service, as I've already told you, has a huge sensitivity, and we only act with a huge sensitivity. And, look, you also say that the school dining rooms were increased in catering, and I'm going to tell you: yes, and you know why?, because the food decree that this government approved recently allowed that many eaters managed by ANPA, who were in indirect management by ANPA, were incorporated into the public network; and do you know what I assumed?, I assumed that those children who, being managed by the ANPA, paid everyone regardless of their income, when they went to the public network, increasing the number of catering-service dining rooms, there was discrimination but very positive, because families with less resources did not pay and families with more resources did contribute something to being within the public network; and that made it possible to increase the squares, and that was possible to increase the number of menus. For you the previous system was a system that didn't take account of the difference in income, and we understand that the system that started is much more socially fairer and that, above all, allows to increase the public network in this area. And, look, I've already told you that zero risk doesn't exist in the kitchens of schools or in the kitchens of our homes; there's no zero risk; now, what we have to do when we detect an anomaly is intervene. And, look, you also talk and you question the quality of the menus; I tell you that the school menus, all school menus, are subject to strict controls and a menu guide, and it's not a menu guide that has been invented without more, it's a menu guide endorsed by the Health Council and the USC Pediatric Service where you control and set absolutely everything – charting, size, volume, type of food, etc.; with which, you say you don't control the quality, the quality of the service comes from you, it comes from you, it's already regulated, and what you do in recruiting jobs is to set a criterion by which you will adjudicate –no arbitrariness, as I suppose you will agree – the companies that are presented to contests, that can be Galician or out of Galicia, also Greek catering companies or other sectors work out –we will agree, no?, that we can't be in a free market – and you can't not be able to raise an alarm. And in Galicia, the price is 60% on barremation...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u321	Finish up, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u322	...in other autonomous communities is 100 percent. In Asturias the barremation is 100 percent, and in Asturias the People's Party does not rule – which you know, it is 100 percent to be able to fix the adjudication – in Asturias. And you're talking about prices, Galicia is at 4,5 euros in average, a price that is in the middle of Spain; Asturias, for example, is at 3 euros, the menu in Asturias is at 3 euros...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u323	Finish up, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u324	...in Andalusia in approximately 4.12, and there are autonomous communities where it is in 6 and Galicia has a level, let's say, half. In any case I want to finish, I think you're in a sort of ideological-political war against catering. I hope with the same insistence that you make such a fierce criticism against the Galician board for giving catering menus in school services, that you also do it to the municipalities for doing exactly the same...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u325	Thank you very much, Mr. Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u326	...or the ANPA for doing absolutely the same thing. Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u327	Parliamentary Group of the Left Galician Alternative. Mr. Ramón Vázquez, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u328	Counselor, people, citizenship, people in the street are tired of putting her on the street for no reason. There are so many workers and workers that this Christmas, before enjoying a day's holiday, will receive a farewell letter from your company. And people are tired of public officials committing negligence, defending neglect, hiding neglect and nothing happens. When I ask that the head of the complementary services of the school dining room be stopped, it's because there's more than enough reasons for that cessation to take place, and I'll clearly list them. If you are committed to covering this gentleman's management, it will be you who has to assume that responsibility, that is no longer a matter of my will. The advantage you have, that's right, your redundant repetition strategy of arguments is that they're tremendously predictable. You have since started this catering crisis with a constant litany of 50 000 daily menus, 70,000 daily menus in school dining rooms; yes, in all, direct management and indirect management with catering, but the problem has been in indirect management, in catering companies; you refer to them, they are not 70,000, I give you the data, I complete it: it is 11,700 daily menus that are shared in catering companies, that is the figure, and in 2,100 of them – i.e. 2,100 children – were affected by this problem, in 21 centers; you look like a smaller problem, because you will see, it is 18% of users who were affected by this crisis, it was 16% of the centers that have catering services that were affected. For you, it's a minor problem, not for us, it's not a minor problem for us, nor for families – for families, of course, not. Demagoxia? It says that from AGE we are demagogy; well, companies must also be demagogy, because companies in the sector have just demanded more controls from Galicia, companies themselves – the Cateering Business Association – require more controls, companies themselves ask them to give priority to the Greek companies in front of the outside and to use products, local food; it must be that companies are tremendously demagogy – that is what guarantees their profitability, demagogy –. You're really bad at managing your own model, which is the most serious thing, because you question our model, but the results of your model are what I told you, which is amazing. And, on the other hand, you do, the solution that you give to the problem with two companies that manifest themselves absolutely negligent – giving poor food to their families – is to grant the contract to another company, yes: Serunion, who has already been discovered and has incured problems of the same type. This is a great solution, that is to say, for you the background has no importance in making an adjudication, you don't study the files, it doesn't matter what happened earlier. In addition, you are in another mistake, from our point of view, unforgivable: how can you equate the councils and the ANPAs in taking over the management of school dining rooms with the Galician board?, how can you equate a council when it assumes an improper competition – as is a complementary educational service competence of the Galician board, the Education Council – and when, precisely, because of the Galician board, you assume that service benefit you say "how do they do it through indirect management"? Can you explain to me in your next shift how does a council to perform this service in a direct management mode?, how can you explain to me through public employees at an education council facility that you can provide a service through direct management?, can you tell me how an ANPA can hire public staff and provide a dining service at a joint property and ownership facility through the direct management mode? Is that possible?, can an ANPA be responsible for assuming the management it does not apply, which does not use the Galician Union, and on top of being guilty of privatizing school eaters? Of course, you have to hear really amazing things. You assume responsibilities, Counselor; people, citizenship is tired of you putting your foot on it again and again...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u329	Finish, Mr. Vázquez, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u330	...and nothing happens. And if you do not assume responsibility for stopping the maximum and immediate perpetrators of this catering crisis, you will have to assume it, Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u331	Thank you, Mr. Vázquez. You have the floor to close the debate of the Councillor for Culture, Education and Universitary Order, Mr. Román Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u332	Well, Mr. Vázquez, really amazing. The dining room services – Mr. Pombo explained very well in his last intervention – have a part that is an educational complement service – when he was in the countryside, when there were classes in the mornings and afternoons – but you should know – but what happens is that he is demagoxically hidden or trying to say something because, if not, it's really bad that you don't know this – it's really bad that you don't know that, in urban areas, most of the dining room managed by the city halls have a vocation of conciliation service, with which it's not an educational service, it's a conciliation service, with which the municipalities go in there to manage this area, just like the ANPAs do; because you'll know that, in many schools, at the end of the school day, children eat in school luncheons run by the ANPAs and the municipalities, but then go to your home. [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] Well, if that's not trying to confuse us here, Mr. Vázquez, then, well, I don't know what to say. Just like you said, how can an ANPA make a direct service? Well, look, ask Ames, man, ask Ames that's next to him, ask Ames how they'll prove it to him very well. The vast majority of ANPAs do catering services and some of them don't; and if not, you'll ask Ames without any problems. And, of course, with so much demagogy, it's hard to be able to answer to so many things that you said here. You've said that neglect is being defended; let's go, to an administration that rescinds an administrative concession to a company for an inappropriate benefit of a service, you call it negligence! [[Murmurs.]] We're going to have to go to the dictionary to find what it means to be negligent, because really, in our language, in the language of the common people – as you say – neglect is a very different thing, Mr. Vázquez: neglect is not acting with responsibility as it did here, when the error is detected. Another question that demonstrates this demagogy that you're feeding here: let's see, Mr. Vázquez, I've already said that we're giving 72,000 menus a day, around 11,700 indirect management, and about 60,000 and peak direct management, and the food risk – of speaking – is equal to one in another. Don't you? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Are you sure? It's exactly the same. And I'm going to tell you that you're launching a data that also tells you about your demagogy, and that it's a mistake I think it was premeditated; you say there were twenty centers where there were anomalies, it's not true: there were two centers in the metropolitan area of Coruña and two or three centers in the area of Salne, what happens is that the service contract was twenty but where there was to be action was in five, with which that 18% percentage is not true; you're letters like I am in letters too, that's not true. [[Murmurs.]] That is, in fact, they were rescinded to twenty centers but there were only anomalies detected in two centers, in the Coruña subway and in two or three centers – I don't remember right now – in the area of Salnés. So, of course, with as much demagogy as you think it's hard to get there and throw a clear message. And I repeat the message that I told you earlier: our dining service, the service of the Galician Union, is a magnificent service; I don't think there's any autonomous community that has a service like Galician; at the economic level it requires an effort on huge Greek society, it requires an effort that, while it generates a path of family reconciliation, it's also a basic complementary service for education especially in rural areas. [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] And you're talking about economics here. Look, with our system, 80% of the children don't pay anything; in Andalusia they're very proud to pay 55%. Well, you have to deal with Andalusia, Mr. Ron, because something really has to tell you. [[Mr. Ron Fernández pronounces words that are not perceived.]] What do you think... No, no, it's just that something will have to tell you next, because you guys get here and say anything, as if they hadn't happened or had no partners, and they really all get calm and say anything. [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]] But, well, where do you manage... here they don't manage because the Greeks don't want them, maybe in the future they do, but right now they don't, and because they have no management experience, they say any questions. But, in any case – I insist – 80% of the German users in the dining room pay absolutely nothing – in other autonomous communities is much higher that percentage – which, in fact, keeps dwindling the partridge in this matter because we don't see it very reasonable. What if we see that it's important to say, Mr. Vázquez, is that in this service, when some anomaly has been detected, it has acted. And it can't happen, I'm not going to say "lower matter" but yes to a timely matter where there was never a risk for children's health – where there was never a risk for children's health – because the controls worked – because the controls worked – and if you try to make a general cause and try to generate an alarm. I understand that you in alarmism swim well: they like to alarm, they like to harm, they like to generate a kind of nebula where everything works wrong; and that's why it works well for you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u333	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u334	...but that alarm, Mr. Vázquez, you know it's harmful and it should be – I insist – more responsible, because we're talking about very serious things, we're talking about feeding our children, our children, and actually throwing these kinds of absolutely demagogic nightmares hurt them a lot. I am finished, Madam President, wishing you a very good Christmas to all present and waiting for some Members to be more reasonable in the future. [[Mumurios.]] Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u335	Thank you very much. The President's part-session speech by the House.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u336	Well, simply, since today's is the last plenary session I chair, because I'd like, before I get up, to thank you, just. Thank you, first of all, all the Members of the various parliamentary groups – and colleagues in this ninth legislation – for all the work they have done, indeed; I believe that they have converted this House – and with contrasted data – into the first chamber, into the most active chamber of all the autonomous cameras, and that is fair to acknowledge it. I would also like to thank the various spokesmen whom I have coincided with over these years, but I would like to personalize it in the present spokesmen: at this moment, José Luis Méndez Romeo, of the Socialist Group; Francisco Jorquera, of the BNG; Chelo Martínez, of the Mixed Group; and there is Mr. Beiras, therefore, I personalise it in Mrs. Yolanda Díaz; and my companion Pedro Puy Fraga; for his collaboration despite disagreements at some point. I would also like to thank the Bureau of Parliament, my colleagues, my colleagues, my senior lawyer, because I think they did the job easy and, above all, always constructively – which is very much to thank for. And I couldn't forget the media that often continues the work we do in this House, the staff that daily supports us with their work – without what we couldn't do all the things we do here." And, really, I ended by saying that for me it was the greatest honor to be able to preside over this House, to be the president of the first institution in Galicia. And I think it ends today a very important stage in my life, ends a stage – and I'm a little nervous –, ends a very important stage in which I, really, tried to exercise my work with the greatest respect but especially with the greatest responsibility. [[Laughter]] So, one step that I will never forget – not even, besides, I will forget everyone who ends this stage with me. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Mr. Méndez Romeo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u337	Thank you very much, Madam President. Allow me to express to you, on behalf of my group, the satisfaction of your mandate, your presidency; no doubt your personal virtues, your desire for dialogue, your empathy, even your affectionate proximity and, above all, your continuing willingness to seek solutions to problems have made parliamentary work easily develop, I think also in an effective way. In this profession we tend very much to overact and you have always been able to introduce the necessary dose of serenity in order to solve the problems. This group wishes you the best on your new journey and, at the same time, if you allow me, I also want to take the same opportunity to wish Mrs. Yolanda Díaz and Paula Prado, who leave us; with them we had coincidences, disadvantages, but always trying to avoid personal affections and, above all, to confront ideas – which is what the citizens brought us here –. And I finally add up to what we heard this afternoon. And I don't know what the generation of kings will be like in the future, but, in any case, this group is taking advantage of this moment to express to all its lords the best wishes for the coming year.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u338	Mr. Jorquera.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u339	Yes, Madam President. First of all, I want to express a personal feeling: when you said I was nervous I had the assurance that I fully believe it is true, because -- if I am allowed to tell an anecdote -- in my last speech at the Congress of Deputies before I resigned, because half an hour before I intervened I had to go quickly to the medical services of the House because I had a sudden affinity; and it's not because I'm a smoker, it wasn't for another reason, it was for the nervousness that I was going to be my last intervention at Congress to say goodbye to the House. [[Laughter]] So I live in my own flesh and believe that it is absolutely true. You made reference to discrepancies, I don't have to remember that BNG has manifested discrepancies, at some point, with respect to how you conducted the full and some conflicts we had in this House, but I think that never prevented us from having a relationship of respect and a good personal relationship. And I think in politics it's always very important not to confuse plans and not to confuse legitimate political discrepancies with disrespect and consideration for staff. Therefore, on behalf of the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, I also wish you the best, as I wish to the Members and Members who leave this House to assume new roles. I also take advantage of the occasion, I am not a believer – in the BNG there are diversity of beliefs, but I am, in particular, not a believer – and then, instead of saying good Christmas, I take the opportunity to wish all Members and Members good holidays and, above all, wish for a good new year for all the Greeks and the Greeks. Thank you very much and I wish you the best, honestly.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u340	Yolanda Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u341	Well, the truth is, I almost feel strange, Pilar – if you'll excuse me on this occasion – because I'm almost in a double role that, frankly, had not predicted in my personal life or even politics; therefore, I feel weird. First of all, I would like to thank you, on behalf of the Gaga de Left Alternative Group, of course, for your best in personal terms – and also political – and thank you for a work that I know has been difficult at times, sometimes you have been a little unfair – with Juan Fajardo, especially with Juan Fajardo and with other Members and Members, but I think he has always given priority to cordiality outside this Chamber. [[Laughter]] [[Laughter]] Therefore, on the side of the Gaga de Left Alternative, without a doubt, wish you the best. [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] And, if you'll excuse me, I feel weird because I'm sure Pilar and I'm sure we'll agree at Congress and I hope we'll keep seeing each other. The rest of the Members and Members, as I bid you farewell not to leave but to leave this Chamber, also thank you for the opportunity they have given me – especially all the Greeks and the Greeks for representing them – the opportunity to have worked with all of you and all of you, with the entire Chamber. I'm a tough woman, sometimes, but I think we did in this group the work we had to do. And nothing else, thank you very much. And so do I, although I'm not a believer, I like the Magi, and I do, in the name of our group, want to wish them very good parties.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u342	Thank you, Mrs. Díaz. Mrs. Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u343	Well, year-end and end for three people in this Parliament, this stage. I want to congratulate you, wish you very much luck in the staff at three o'clock, in the politician, I have to say that less to the PP than to the others, but personal luck anyway for the three o'clock. Thank you, Pilar, the role; I know it was – and I am aware that when the Joint Group was created – quite difficult moments, I think you managed to take them... because here we are no more conflict and I hope that the person who replaces you will be able to carry it with the same capacity for dialogue as well. Thank you very much and congratulations at three o'clock.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u344	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u345	Yes, Madam President. I also want – in the name of the People's Parliamentary Group – first of all to have a few words of thanks. As you have well expressed a moment ago, these last two legislations are – both compared to the previous legislations as well as with the rest of the autonomous cameras and even with Congress and the Senate – surely had a huge impulse at work. Another thing is that it's the ones outside who have to judge quality but, of course, in a number of hours, of initiatives, etc., it's true that under the presidency of Red Pilar there was a clear impulse to this house; she said, when she took possession, that she wanted to make a house of debates and words and, of course, many words have been heard and there were many debates during this term. Secondly, I also want to make a recognition because, during the presidency of Pilar Rojo, this House has committed two reforms of the Rules of Procedure; this is important because they have allowed the House's work to be rationalized, and I also specifically mention it because I – I am aware of the most close relationship, of belonging to the same political group – that it has been decisive in the drive for a reform – that it especially considers important – that it allows women's voting in situations of pregnancy or adoption, etc., and also because it has done an important job in the social legitimacy of this House in complex decisions – such as the remuneration and the economic means of this House, for example. I also want – and I'm done – to leave a record of a question, which was a respectful presence with the work of the groups, with the work of the spokesmen. The president and I share readings, sometimes, and it was she who called me attention to a book by a German philosopher – Professor of Philosophy at the University of Berlin – who has interesting books, is known because he criticizes the evolution of politics towards a digitized psycho-political; in that book I saw a quote that I want to remember, that is, "the respect constitutes the fundamental piece for the public; where respect disappears the public, the decline of the public and the growing lack of respect condition each other." And that's why, President, I want to thank you for being so respectful of the House's groups and, with the same respect you've had with us, to wish you the best at the new stage that is now open to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-12-23-DSPG137.u346	I don't know if I'm leaving anymore, but good parties. The agenda is run out, the session is up. Thank you very much.
