ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u1	The session is open. The agenda is published in the Official Gazette of the Parliament of Galicia, so it is not read. Mrs Carmen Iglesias, of the Joint Parliamentary Group, and Mr Juan Carlos González Santín, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. We're on the agenda, with point one, of legislative texts. Debate taken into account by the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, of institutional advertising of Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u2	For the presentation of the bill has the word dona Monserrat Prado Cores.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u3	"Xan. Xan will take wood to the mountain, Xan will make up the baskets, Xan will prune the vines, Jan will get the dung, and take the leaf to the mill, and bring the manure to the stable, and go to the fountain for water, and go to Mass with the children, and make the bed and the broth. Jan, at last, is a complete Jan, of which every woman would suit at least one, but when you look for a Jan, you almost always find a Peter." Today is February 24th, and a day like today in 1837 was born Rosalía de Castro, the main figure of the letters of Greek, the main figure of the recovery of our language. And with the verses I just read, today I want to pay tribute to our distinguished writer by adding myself to the campaign, to the proposal of the writers and writers of the Greek language to commemorate Rosaly Day. Some verses that are an example of Rosalía's feminist claim, an initiative that has been adhered to by many entities throughout Galicia and in the diaspora, thus giving an example of patriotism and dignity to a Galician Union, to a German Government of the People's Party who continues to deny us recognition of Rosalía and its central role in our history, considering it little less than foreign in its own country. Good morning to all of you. I can't greet anyone in the rostrum because this Parliament is still numbed and preventing the claims of the people of Greece from coming to this House and that citizens know in the first person what's going on here. But today I would like to begin this intervention by acknowledging the Association of Media in Galicia, which was the one that presented this initiative to us, which I believe has been presented to all groups representing this House and that the Nationalist Block in Galicia assumes itself. And we assume it because we consider it very important to provide Galicia with a law that regulates institutional advertising, a regulation that so far does not exist; a law that introduces objective criteria for the taxation of public resources, taxing money from Galicians and from Galicians to communication companies; a law that ends with discretion in the distribution of public funds; a law that sets advertising contracts by public authorities to be transparent; a law that allows a transparent relationship between the media and public authorities. We consider that there is a need for legislation in this area, since Galicia today does not count on it, despite the fact that the Statute of Autonomy, in its Article 27.31, states that it is a matter of its own competence. We are in February 2015 and Galicia can no longer count on an Institutional Advertising Act, a law that was promised in the 2009 election campaign, which is in the electoral leaflets of the People's Party of 2009, which was committed in this Parliament by the Counsellor, at that time Mr. Rueda, and vice-president at this time, who was committed by the President of the Union, Núñez Feijóo, in this Parliament, who was engaged in the media, who was promised it again during the debate of the October 2013 state of the nation, but today are only promises and unmet commitments. Once again, the People's Party believes that the Greeks and the Greeks can win by making electoral promises, but then by not making them effective. We are at a time when the formation of opinion takes place in a very important part through the media. The media not only inform or entertain, but also transmit symbols, representations, construct social references and contribute to the building of identity. And the configuration of the current system of values in modern societies could not be understood without analyzing the weight of media and its contents. For a long time, the media has stopped being mere channels of information to become transmitters of ways of life, of thought, of behavior and of values. It is therefore obvious the enormous power of influence of the media, of the information tools, of what is reported, of who builds the information, what part of reality is that which is known and which is hidden or not known. They play a major role at the general level as well as in any public activity. We therefore consider that regulating the relationship with public authorities, with political power with the media, is an aspect of great importance that reveals the quality of a democratic system. And hence the justification of this law, a bill that we present and which determines the procurement of publicity by the Galician Public Administration and all public sector entities of their dependents; a bill that does not include the regulation of electoral processes, because we believe that there is regulation even supervised by electoral bodies, by judicial bodies. What makes it clear is that if there is a regulation of communication in electoral time, it's because of the importance given to the influence that these media have on the conformation of opinion. Therefore, such determination of opinion must also be regulated outside of campaigns or electoral periods. We therefore present the Law that brought us to the Association of the Media in Galicia, which is based on, has a structure in 4 chapters, 27 articles and 3 provisions. In chapter I, we set out the general provisions, the object of this law, the definition of institutional advertising as a form of communication disseminated by any means by the public administrations of Galicia and the dependent public sector, in order to promote their image, their activities, promoting public interest values, which must take into account the various media, as well as supporting transparency and democracy in the functioning of the media, while promoting innovation and technological improvement. It also regulates chapter I that Welsh is the language of dissemination of institutional advertising in Galicia. Because in Galicia they coexist, in a very unequal way, our Greek language – Galician language itself – and Spanish; inequality, of course, very against Greek. There is a statutory mandate that establishes that the Greek public authorities are obliged to enhance their own language, a statutory mandate that is systematically being violated by the Government of the Union, which should be the greatest guarantor of their compliance. Chapter II sets out the guiding principles governing institutional advertising: truth, transparency, legality, institutional loyalty, neutrality, public interest, efficiency, non-discrimination, people's and their activities. It establishes, for example, the refusal to introduce institutional advertising in those cases where there is no institutional publicity regarding the integrity of persons, especially in the case of the Constitution. We believe that it is also necessary to regulate this matter. The principle of respect for democratic values and for the language and culture of the people of Greece is taken into account in this chapter II. Chapter III regulates procurement of advertising by adopting a whole range of measures, such as competition or advertising of calls. It contemplates the development of an annual advertising and communication plan with objectives, with which means it will be used, which will be the recipients and what will be their cost. We firmly believe that institutional advertising has to be planned, it cannot be in the way of the party interests of every moment, it must be a forecast that is envisaged annually, except for matters of force majeure. This chapter III establishes the distribution of the budget into two calls for aid, with a specific for the media that only uses Greek, in order to ensure aid for the promotion and support of the use of the Greek language, so that none of the calls can be made with more than 60% of the public resources intended for this purpose. It also establishes the linkage of aid to the labour stability of workers and workers who develop their activity in those media, so – and it says textually the article of the law – that "the criteria for the adjudication of institutional campaigns will be linked to the labour stability of workers," duly accredited this stability with the data of stable and quality job creation and permanence – stable and quality employment which, of course, is not what prevails at this time in the media of our country – and also listens to communication to the information processing of government achievements or activities. Institutional communication cannot be for the sake of government achievements, it has to be informative and formative. And chapter IV refers to the control of institutional advertising, which are the objects of the campaigns and which cannot be the object of institutional advertising. It includes the establishment of an Institutional Advertising Commission, composed of representatives of the Galician Union, parliamentary groups, groups represented in the Galician Parliament, the local administration, professionals and media associations in Galicia. It sees this commission as an important step in monitoring and monitoring the proper use of public resources, both economically and with regard to the use of government position within the Public Administration. You have this commission for consultation, for reporting. In other words, institutional advertising is controlled and there is control over where public funds are allocated. It is a proposal which we bring here today as a legal standard so that institutional advertising aid to the media is carried out with objective criteria, favouring information transparency and eradicating opaque and discretionary practices in the management of public funds, giving Galicia an appropriate framework so that it does not depend on information about the discretion of the government of turn, which establishes the clear obligation of transparency, which sets criteria and which eliminates inappropriate practices. We want this law to regulate the relationship between political power and the media, which is a transcendental aspect that reveals the quality of a democratic system. And we think it's very relevant, especially at times like these, where we're all aware that practically all the media would not survive without public aid, with which these public aid must have an equitable distribution, an equitable distribution, because if not, what is at risk is freedom of expression. Because we are witnessing obscene use in many media cases, it is necessary to accurately differentiate what institutional advertising means and what propaganda represents. It is true that institutional advertising must exist, but it is clear that it is institutional advertising and not propaganda to the service of the Government. It cannot be that public resources are destined for the pure and harsh propaganda of a certain ideological conception. In the BNG, we consider it important that once and for all we regulate with neutrality, with objectivity, the relationship of public authorities with the media. It is necessary to end the use of these public resources to buy wills, to use the resources to generate grateful stomachs or to use this money to double consciousness. We present a legislative text that states that these public resources cannot be used in the name of promoting the use of the Greek language in order to end up being destined for the media that only use 5% or 6% of Welsh in their information; a legislative text that prevents the Greek media from disappearing, confined to ridiculous allocations; a legislative text that prevents the Greek media from being devoted, for example, to only EUR 182,000 in 2014, when large groups of communications were allocated EUR 1,675,000, aids for the promotion of Greek that more than 90 % go to means that use only 6 % of Welsh in their media. It's still bleeding that on the side of the aids to...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u4	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u5	...journalistic companies score 75% to diffusion, 24% to language use and 2% to normalization. This means an anomaly of the duty of the German Government. A legislative text that ends with the constant reduction of resources to the means that empower our language. A law needs, because once again the social alarm about how public resources are used is there. And, of course, as well as how they use those resources in the media and in not empowering the Greek language, it must also be subject to regulation, because transparency...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u6	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u7	...and the good use of public resources is practiced and not preached. Waiting for the support of the groups of this House, nothing more.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u8	Thank you very much. Round of parliamentary groups. Joint Group. You have the floor to Mrs. Martínez García.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u9	Hello, good morning to all and to all. It is common practice for this Government to confuse the interests of the Government of Greece, which should only serve the common interest, with the interest of the People's Party. Also, in many cases called institutional advertising, it is too often hidden on too many occasions biased propaganda or covered subsidies to some media, as has been reported on many occasions. Grants to the Greek media I believe that in the current situation of economic crisis are necessary to avoid media closures, as has already happened in recent years, although it is alarming that the Government would allow – not to say it would cause – the disappearance of the Greek-language media with its subsidy policy. I am a Member of an electoral commitment to citizenship which includes as one of its three programmatic lines the defence of the Greek information field with media not subject to political and economic powers. That's why I don't intend to end with media support, but always with objective criteria, and not with covert subsidies subject to arbitrariness to try to condition in favour of the PP government to information line or try to buy silences. I insist that there is a need for the active defence of the Greek information field, but with the media not subject to political and economic powers; therefore, and especially for the public media, they should comply – and fail – with the objectives set out in the law, which does not even apply to reduce members of the Galician Radiotelevision Council. Institutional advertising is made with public funds, with money from everyone and everyone, and it means a close of funds to the media in times of contraction of demand for private advertising, which must be used in public and objective calls, public and objective calls that demand the same Board of Auditors in its reports. Also the College of Journalists of Galicia and the Union of Journalists of Galicia have claimed transparency in media aid. That is why I will support the consideration of the Galician Institutional Advertising Bill presented today by the BNG. As you well know, taking the bill into consideration is not supposed to take the text literally, and even if you can support it with important discrepancies, even if this is not my case. What we are talking about, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party and ladies of the People's Party, is whether institutional advertising is considered necessary in its contents, in its language and in the way it can be helped by one company or another. If we were before a normal government, a government that practiced democracy in relation to the fundamental distinction between government and party, we could expect the People's Party's Parliamentary Group to support this bill as well. But as it comes to Mr.Núñez Feijóo's board, the Galician and Welsh demolition squad, I know that they will not want to give up any resources that will allow them to condition the opinion published to anesthetize citizenship, while impoverishing, destroy public services, and even say [...]. [[(By order of the President and in accordance with Rule 106(3) of the Rules of Procedure, this expression is withdrawn from the Journal of Sessions.)]] The Electoral Committee rebuked the German Government until nine times in the election campaign to Parliament for violating the electoral law. In 2012 and from August 27 to the elections to the German Parliament, during that campaign the Electoral Union ordered, for example, to withdraw the signing of the agreement with Pemex for the construction of hotels ships on Greek shipyards. He also had to remove from the official website a news in which charges were filed against the Mayor of Lugo. He had to withdraw a Well-being campaign on the age-old rights gap. Also, the advertising campaign "Glew country, a task of all." The counsellor’s visit – at that moment, Jesus Vázquez – to a school. The act of introducing new autonomic police officers. The visit of the health adviser to the Vigo hospital. The visit of the Environmental Adviser to the Road Town Hall in order to announce the City of Mobile's urbanization project. That is, the People's Party, during the 2012 campaign for elections to the German Parliament, has repeatedly violated the electoral law and used the institution to convert institutional advertising into partisan and electoralist propaganda. We can observe that this dynamic and this way of making politics and using the institutions of the People's Party did not end in 2012, but in this new campaign for municipalities and campaign for state elections the People's Party again uses institutions to make electoral propaganda. Thus, in this campaign we can listen to in the media and read in the media like Mr. Núñez Feijóo stops selling us Mexico to sell us Chile and Colombia, with promises of workload for our companies; promises of export growth, but that they are absolutely concrete to anything but propaganda; promises of measures to improve transparency and democracy; promises of the introduction of laws in the next five months. I mean, in the middle of the campaign, I promise what later, again, will not be fulfilled. We'll also talk later about the promises of building new health centers, when they've been failing to carry out the construction of these health centers year after year. The same promises and lies, campaign after campaign. Today we will talk about more electoral publicity disguised as government initiatives, in appearances, for example, about housing and employment, more advertising measures that do not lead anywhere, that do not lead to any commitment and that only intend to deceive the population, to try that all those people who are aware at this time that the policies of the People's Party are not aimed at improving the lives of people, improving the lives of the middle class, raising wages and recognizing the basic rights of citizenship, these lies will no longer be credible, because they are constantly repeating campaign per campaign. I know that the People's Party will not accept institutional advertising, as they refuse any sensible proposal from which different opposition groups often do, but they will portray themselves a little more. You can't come to this House selling us measures for democracy, measures aimed at greater transparency, and act in the way it acts by manipulating the media, using institutional advertising as electoral propaganda one after another. I hope that, for the sake of democracy and transparency that Mr. Núñez Feijóo has sold us to Parliament, you will be able to vote in favour of this bill. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u10	Thank you very much, Mrs. Martínez. As you yourself acknowledged, you have seen offensive concepts in this House. So you know you have a call to order and the removal of words. Well, that didn't say... well. [[Mrs. Martínez García speaks words that are not perceived.]] [[Murmurs.]] Parliamentary Group of the Left Galician Alternative. Mr. Ron has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u11	Well, good morning to all and all. First, I would begin by saying that we are facing an initiative that is sad to have to debate, because it seems that in this country the relationship of ethics and democracy with our public administration seems impossible, an impossible relationship. We are again in front of a metaphor of the myth of eternal return – it has been commented –. On November 18, 2009, a Galician institutional advertising bill was introduced here, which was the only change in government because it made it remain forgotten. Or, too, as in June 2010 there was a bill by the Socialist Party of Galicia on institutional advertising. Or, in 2011, as already mentioned, the Secretary General of the Media, in committee, said we would soon have a bill. Or, recently, in the debate on the state of the nation, on 15 October 2013, President Feijóo announced the imminent arrival of the institutional advertising bill. So sad, but it's a very necessary initiative. The circumstances that imply the need to regulate institutional advertising by public administrations are many and varied, especially by the Galician Union, which is Galicia's most important public advertiser. In fact, according to studies by the Group of Studies on Institutional Advertising, Political and Social, Galicia, between 1999 and 2009, it was the fifth community in advertising insertions. Therefore, a necessary initiative that comes, in addition, from the so-called society, from the social agents involved, such as the Association of the Media in Galicia, and which led, through meetings with that collective, that both AGE and BNG will register the same initiative on 24 September, because at the bottom of the question is to be spokespersons of the necessity that the agents themselves involved in this task of disseminating the institutional publicity that comes from the public administrations, which comes from the Unity of Galicia. And it is that institutional advertising must be understood as a public service, a public service that serves the public interest of citizenship, right to true information and access to public services. And it should be unique and exclusively the primary scope of institutional advertising: serving the public interest of our citizens, right to true information and access to public services. That is why a legal framework is needed that has the basic principles of truthfulness, transparency, legality, institutional loyalty, neutrality, efficiency, non-discriminatoryness and respect for people and their activities. Finally, it is ethical and it brings fundamental democratic values, including – as not! – positive action measures to normalize the use and presence of the Greek language in the media used for institutional advertising. But, really, are you interested in the government's interest in having that institutional publicity controlled and regulated? Does it interest you or simply want to use it as an arianite to glorify the Executive's action in multiple communicative formats? Radio, television, press, cinema, everything, the internet, social networks, everything is absolutely used by the Galician Union, by public administrations, but not to defend the general interests of citizenship, not to defend true information or to make access to public services feasible, but to be unique and exclusively a process of driving that we must illegalize. That's why the essential point of this bill is to illegalize the government's autobomb of shift, and that's fundamental. The studies mentioned above speak of the fact that between 1999 and 2009, which was the period studied, advertising insertions – as could not be otherwise – on the part of the Board are uniquely and exclusively in that autobomb approach rather than in an information process. Over the eleven years studied it is also reflected that institutional advertising – like not! – increases in the electoral year and at the end of legislation. And it is no coincidence, for example, that in the DOG of 23 January 2015 the General Secretariat of the Media announced the hiring of services for the development of a necessary creativity – you would know what it refers to – for the development of the different institutional campaigns on dates of special relevance, years 2015 and 2016 – what curious!, election years – and that is why you have to hire services to develop a necessary creativity. I would like you to explain to us the lady who leads the General Secretariat of the Media to what she refers to with these metaphors and these symbols. Of course, what's behind it is that 81% of advertising is reported through television and newspapers, 81%; and the TVG reaches 74% of the television advertising used by the Galician Union. It is therefore clear that it is necessary to regulate, because it is about breaking and overcoming the partisan use of the media, of institutional advertising. It's about cracking at the bottom with the misuse of public money that is in the orbit of prevarication and the path of corruption. Because we have to say this: when the country's media is being patrimonialized and the money of the entire citizenship is being used partisanly, it's being misused, it's prevariating, and it's also installing the path of corruption, as they show, on the other hand, curious businesses that connect certain alternative media like websites with different institutional offices. So we must watch over and prevent the misuse of public money, the money of all citizenship. And this year, in addition, as I have already said, the year of, precisely, electoral disputes, for it is even more urgent and necessary, if possible, to carry it out, in order not to fall precisely into the temptation which had already been denounced for its use. This year is precisely what also prevents the State Act of 2005, which is to carry out information campaigns that make self-defense. And it's necessary to do it, because you see that between the campaigns of the 2009-2012 period there was some publicity campaign in Galicia that asked advertising companies an open praise of the achievements of the Greek Government itself. For example, in industry it was asked to transmit optimism and that the Union does not provide legal loopholes; in health it was requested to highlight the path that Galicia has already travelled in the field of generics; in the environment, the defence of the values of the territory by the Council; and there is little, a package of thousands of euros so that a particular newspaper, a concrete media, will announce positive news about R & D+i in Galicia. I mean, it's clear that from now on, in these two years, the Council of Galicia will use the media to carry out self-governing campaigns. And this bill of law, what it wants to do is stop that, it's stop that. There is therefore a need for regulation that allows the media to be released from the partisan kidnapping, because this is what is today in the media: manipulation and kidnapping of true information. Justification must be a public service and guarantee the right to true citizenship information through the principles set out in this bill. The ethics of the public good requires that public money be invested according to what results in the benefit of citizenship. It can't be that what happens today, there's no rigour in granting everyone's money and everything's. And even as everyone knows well, for example, in Galicia complaints about finger delivery, about contracts negotiated without advertising to various media in this country are persistent. And then, when you want to go over your track on the website or on the Internet, there's an information darkening to prevent precisely the follow-up of the adjudications made, of the contracts awarded, of the lots divided so that you don't exceed the maximum count, but if you put together all the lots, you see that some media has ingentious accounts of the public money of all of you. We're not talking about small counts. If we consider the official data given in this parliamentary headquarters, between 2009 and 2012 it was 40 million euros, 40 million euros. But we know they're more; they're more, because there only comes the officially recognized one.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u12	Finish, please, Mr. Ron.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u13	So, as we say, a law is necessary and, above all, it is necessary to provide society, to provide our society with a control mechanism that ensures that public money is invested and spent ethically and according to democracy and not according to interests...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u14	Thank you very much, Mr. Ron.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u15	...of the party that governs. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u16	Socialist Parliamentary Group. You have the floor to Mrs. Sestayo Doce.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u17	Thank you, President. Today the Socialist Parliamentary Group, as it cannot be otherwise, is added to the commemoration of the birth of Rosalía de Castro, which had to overcome two such current resistances. By the way, who would tell our poet the fact that she was a woman and beat the traps that the writer had for being a woman and the fact that she wanted to write in German! Our gratitude to the Greek poet writer. Today we enter into a debate, repeated on the other hand, in which we have already announced support for the initiative of the Galego Nationalist Block, and we are bringing the publication in the Official Bulletin of the Parliament of Galicia of the VII legislature, on 25 November 2008, where the draft institutional advertising law was published, which brought to this House the Government of Emilio Pérez Touriño, the two-party government, and which, in fact, was first frustrated and truncated by the entry of the elections and then never had continuity in the way in which it was designed and drafted by the two-party Government or in any other way, despite being a commitment to these so many commitments of Feijóo. I've been trying to look at the Journal of Sessions to see how many times the Government of Feijóo has compromised an institutional advertising law. I have nine counts – certainly tracking if I have escaped some – and they go both in debates on non-law proposals in committee, in debates on non-law proposals in full, in motions for resolutions still in the debates in the state of Autonomy, as well as in some cases in amendments to budgets. The argument to reject the different proposals of all opposition groups to make the Institutional Advertising Law, to help the Government of Galician Union to fulfil its commitment, is always the same: it will be presented in an imminent manner. That is the answer that works – and you can see it, ladies and gentlemen – in the Journal of Sessions such as Mr Feijóo's announcements: a law of imminent institutional advertising, and there are five years, more than five years, almost six, of the imminence of commitment. We are faced with a certainly important and important commitment from those who reach the very essence of democracy. When in the 1980s information, the right to information and the right to true information was changed from within the forums of UNESCO, where it was perceived and where it was tried to give information the character that must have a fundamental right, a basic right, a basic mercy of democratic societies; when in the 1980s it passed – as it said – from UNESCO to the Trade Organization, because it was obvious that we had already lost an essence of democracy. The right to information was no longer precisely, as I said, a pier of democracy to be something that was commercialized, something with business mentality and something that went wrong with other parameters quite different from those that had to sustain a democratic society. But in spite of that, because numerous texts and regulations collected what the constitutions had already collected since the American and French revolutions, where even the rights of the citizen and man, in article 11 already recognized and already established that the right to true information and the need to collect and regulate the aspects that set it up was necessary for a democratic society – article 11, we are talking about the Declaration of the Rights of Man and of the Citizen. From then on it is true that in virtually all the constitutional texts are collected, Article 20 of the Spanish Constitution. We are again, ladies and gentlemen, in the face of a constitutional debate in Parliament and we are again in the opposition demanding the Government that so much praises the Constitution and that so many times this People's Party of the Constitution, once again tramples on a fundamental right. Well, Article 20, which speaks of freedom of expression and freedom of information, on the one hand, obliges public authorities to access the various public media of significant social and political groups respecting the pluralism of society – I would also like to make this call for the defence of universal access to the public media we know today, which is restricted by the people's bite policy – as well as to communicate or receive free true information by any means of dissemination. So much so that in the information, if, as some authors point out, there is no right of information which is not true, the Constitutional Court itself had to unite the information to remember that only true information is the object of protection as a fundamental right by the High Court, though information, if it is not true, is manipulation and the fruit of opinions, often with the result of electoral interests. I checked before, and I already gave a figure of 40 million euros the spokesperson for AGE, even, well, because here they were expressly recognized in this Parliament as collecting a Greek media, written in Greek, which the Government of Feijóo recognized to have received a year of 25 million euros in institutional advertising. Indeed, the Government of Feijóo, as well as the right-wing governments in general, have renounced the idea of transforming reality; they prefer to set themselves up in that virtual reality and, instead of devoting public money to transforming health, education, fundamental rights, civic rights, they intend to make them through figures that pervert the democratic system and are intended exclusively to keep the People's Party in power. That's the policy you're using within institutional advertising. Because it's obvious that the Galician demographic pyramid is a question that, given any statistical data we receive, is reversed. It is clear that there is an immigration indentation, as it is evident that children are not born and that the population is aging, as it is evident that we have to make a shock plan for the same. But what has been done since Galician Union? The Galician Union is depriving the Commission of the demographic plan, perverting the results, omiting that, well, all expert recommendations go through public employment, public employment policies, social services policies, conciliation policies, public service defence policies, but instead putting millions of euros in institutional campaigns to talk about the demographic recovery plan. Because it turns out that this country's women will start having children, just because the Galician Union puts millions of euros in the media, in some selective media, to have children. It looks like the public hospital, that the Vigo hospital, which started publicly by the Bipartisan Government and turned into private – as I was reminded, as my companion Macu was now speaking, is private, because for that are the money of the Galician and the Welsh people to place in fences the institutional advertising of the Galician Union, letters throughout Vigo that says, of course, that the hospital is public, and therefore, once it is written and told by the Galician Board with the money of all, it is just as it is privatized, it gives as much as the migration figures, the industrial rate figures in Galicia are on the floor, it is the same as they are no longer running 60% of the budgets, which most had to be devoted to the Industry Council for Entrepreneurship, because we think of an institutional campaign also millions of euros for media called "Galice undertakes", and so many others, because of course the virtual reality that we are living. It's like the sick and the hepatitis C disease don't have access to medication...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u18	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u19	...the same thing – I'm done, Madam President – because we spend millions of euros on the same taxes as people who have hepatitis C talking about generics or talking about a health system that doesn't exist on broad media pages that are asked to give good treatment to the government. This is the reality of institutional policy, and that is why I would be very surprised that the People's Party has changed its opinion, whenever it is based on falsehood. The Government of the People's Party supports falseness. And I want to finish with anecdote. Yesterday I was listening to a radio station that talked about which would be the keys to the debate today in the state of the nation. A Tertullian, journalist, said that, well, we saw it according to the media we read and had nothing to do with editorial freedom, but it had to do with, as it was recognized even by journalists, by another kind of interest. As long as we refuse to live in a democratic society, as long as we refuse to have a perfectly informed citizenship, we will be kidnapping democracy, but this is nothing new in the People's Party. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u20	Thank you very much. People's Parliamentary Group. You have the floor to Mrs. Prado del Río.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u21	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good morning. Ladies and gentlemen, it presents today's Galician Nationalist Block a legislative text on institutional advertising, a matter with which the People's Party has already committed a law, as has been said in this gallery. We took him to the election program, and I remind them that we're in the middle of the legislation, there's still two years left, so don't be impatient. You present today a text almost identical to one that was adopted at the last Bipartisan Council, with some different nuances in non-minor matters – which we will then comment on – because for you there is no coherence. When they rule, they say one thing, and when they're in opposition, they say the opposite. They remind me of Marx, not the one that inspires them ideologically, but Groucho Marx when he said that "these are my principles and, if they don't like them, I have others," right? Well, the same normative text to which the People's Parliamentary Group tabled in December 2008 a whole amendment, and today, unlike you, we are going to maintain our coherence with that decision. Mrs. Prado Colors says they don't include a regulation of electoral processes in this text because it's already regulated. So look, Mrs. Prado Cores, the legislative text that we are debating is a copy of Law 29/2005, of December 29, state, of advertising and institutional communication, and therefore most of the articulated is already in force and the Council of Galicia is in compliance with it, something that was also in force when you were ruling but you were looking elsewhere and you were just looking at the graveyard of what institutional advertising was referring to and whether it was regulated when you ruled until 2009. I'm going to focus on chapter III, which is where there is a significant variation in this text that you presented and which you entered into the Chamber in 2008 and which you adopted at the last Bi-Party Council. In article 19 of that text that you recorded, you said: in the case of advertising to be carried out in Galicia your decision will also be evaluated by means of means published in the Greek language; nothing more. What do they say today? Today we are debating a text in which there is a substantial change, since it proposes the recruitment of institutional advertising separately, between the media that use only the Greek language and those who in their case use the two official languages, oh!, but it must be ensured that neither of the two groups will receive more than 60% of the budget for this purpose. And do you talk about balanced distribution? Well, no, ladies. There's no equality if there's a deal equal to the unequal. The principle of equality is clear, it assumes that it is not possible to attribute equal benefits or burdens to merit or possibilities, and the proposal that you bring here today cannot be said to generate a balanced distribution. Look, in the adjudication criteria, article 20 that you present is a contradiction. While point 2 is considered as a criterion to be taken into account by the audience, point 3 is supported by the allocation of at least 40% of the campaigns to the media group that do not provide data from the audience quoted by the measurement companies determined by the media, not by the Government. Don't forget that, Mrs. Prado Cores. If this approach were to be met, it would be contrary to the principles of objectivity and non-discrimination, while a fundamental and inescapable objective of the entire campaign would be diverted, as it is to achieve as many recipients as possible. Ladies and gentlemen, the media that use only Greek must comply with the same requirements that apply to the rest of the Greek media. You intend to give money to the media that broadcasts in English without taking into account the number of readers or audiences. That is discretionary, Mrs. Prado Colors. Ladies and gentlemen, hearing measurements are made by the media and not by the Government, and citizens decide by which means they want to be informed, and therefore the distribution of public money cannot be decided by politicians, who decide it is society, who buys newspapers, who sees through the Internet the digital media, who visualizes through television the media by which they want to be informed. So we will not be politicians who decide something that decides society. And neither the government nor this parliamentary group are the audience indexes, but they are measured by the media themselves and independent. With regard to the distribution of amounts between each of the different media, Junta currently distributes – – as it could not be otherwise – objectively, according to the audience data of the General Study of Media for Newspapers and Radios, and accredited audit companies, Kantar Media for TVs and comScore for digital media. Of course it is your proposal now, which is opposition, because, when they ruled, the law they proposed did not contemplate this proposal for unbalanced distribution without regard to the hearings, nor did it eliminate the media agreements, as they now intend. Conventions with which you gave public money without meeting any requirements and without making them public, the difference in the current Council of Galicia. You have given the data here; therefore, you know perfectly how much money is given to the media in Galicia. Because, look, in those wonderful years where they had money for everything and more, what they were really interested in was their self-promotion, rather than the productive sectors of Galicia. A government that wasted public money in campaigns like Galician Day, for example, with announcements from seven general councils and secretariats in newspapers. From the year 2009 there's an announcement from the Galician Union, against the seven you had. So I'm not surprised at the data that Mr. Ron gave up until 2009, because if he's done before, seven were done; or when they were spent by direct taxation 600,000 euros in the three months prior to the 2009 autonomous elections by the Fisheries Council; or who left for a million euros pending bills in processing at the Health Council; or he paid 7,000 euros for publishing an interview to a provincial director of Sergas. If today they say this is autobomb, then there was autobomb, plates and orchestra, gentlemen. [[Applause]] Look, I'm going to remind you of what you're investing in institutional advertising for the selection of Galician football. Look, more than 3 million euros, specifically 3,304,000 euros. In 2008, in particular, he devoted almost three times more to the parties of the selection, i.e., EUR 855,447 than the help to sportsmen through the 2008 Beijing Awards, and almost six times more than the support to women's sport, only EUR 150,000. So you were budgeting for women's sport and now you're presenting PNL and criticizing the Galician board budget that fosters women's sport, ladies and gentlemen. In the next debate, in the next bill, we will see how you come here as defenders of women's equality, as you stand up in women's big advocates, assuming that only the left has the monopoly of defending equality. But, look, in the People's Party we're more facts and less speeches. Look, all the campaigns that the current Council of Galicia is developing, adjusting to the current legislation – because there are current regulations and I just say them – derive from an obligation that it aims to serve the needs and interests of citizens, in addition to facilitating the exercise of their rights and promoting the fulfilment of their duties. In the last six years, they will find no campaign to highlight achievements of management and self-comprehensibility of the Yellow Government, as if it were in the previous stage and how I have just exhibited in related examples. Look, they've come to use gender-based violence to compare it, so against violence we've recovered the language; this is actually mixing politics with institutional advertising. Or don't remind them of In/Dependence, talking about welfare issues; this should indeed smile at them, gentlemen. Look, as for rigor and austerity in spending, the current Government of Unity has halved...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u22	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u23	...the disbursed in campaigns with respect to the stage of the bipartite. And look, in order to achieve greater rationalization of spending, Junta has gone from investing through insertions, that is, by number of ads, to doing it for impacts, that is, by numbers of people who receive the advertising message, a number of times. In this way it substantially improved the pressure or influence of campaigns, which is called cost per thousand. Look, throughout the campaigns the Galician Union uses exclusively the Greek language, except for those that develop outside the territory, and watch for the protection of the Greek language and culture, even in specific campaigns in this sense. Ladies and gentlemen, we're dealing with a document that can't even start talking, it's no use to amend. The People's Party in the Government has improved with regard to what you received, and with much less resources – I remind you –, 2,000 million euros less in the budget, we've done much more. There has never been as much objectivity in the delivery of public money to the Greek media as with the current Government and all the media are Greek; a few days they publish more in Greek and other days they publish more in Spanish, but all are Greek. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u24	Parliamentary Group's reply to the bill. You have the floor to Mrs. Prado Cores of the Galician Nationalist Block.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u25	As Castelao would say, if it wasn't really the story, this would be to laugh, Mrs. Paula Prado. Look, you're not ashamed, eh! You're not ashamed. You just said here that the People's Party promised and still only go through the middle of the legislation, the second legislate, Mrs. Paula Prado, because Mr. Núñez Feijóo and the People's Party took it to the 2009 electoral program; i.e., have a little... uh, a little bit of... that the hemerothecas are what they have, are there, understand?; year 2009. [[Murmurs.]] And then, in fact – Mrs. Sestayo said – on multiple and countless occasions, he promised by active and passive in this House, with which you come here now to say that it is a matter with which the PP is committed he forgot to say "and not fulfilled", "compromised and unfulfilled." The truth is, it's unfortunate, isn't it? Do you know what positive discrimination is? It turns out that in this country there is one language, there is one regulation that is not currently repealed, which is the Statute of Self-Government and a series of regulations that obliges the Government of Greece to promote Galicia's own language, which is still Greek, and that you are systematically failing to do so. That is why the paragraphs which this law contemplates. Because you're talking about a favor deal. Of course, I treat those who already have, as they do in all matters, also in this. I'm in favour of the People's Party with public resources for those who have the most, millions for those who have the most, and in the meantime the disappearance of the Greek media. You could go up here to the rostrum and make a relationship between the Greek media that has disappeared since you returned to the government in 2009. He should be ashamed of his face. That's the country you want, a country without the media in English, a country where there's no media that's given Galicia's priority, that's what you've been doing since the government. Then don't come here to teach lessons from anything; the justices; the lessons, the justices, Mrs. Paula Prado. And – the truth – it is once more surprising that you come here to say that there is already regulation of the State, which is enough for you; that is, a matter where the Statute states that it is the country's own competence, the Government of Greece, and you agree that the State regulates and tells us what to do in this country. Shame! I'm not the Government of this country, it's the delegates of what they decide in Madrid, once again. What became clear is that the PP preaches much and practices little, preaches a lot of transparency. Here comes Mr. Nuñez Feijóo and the others talk to us about transparency, but then, at the time of truth, that remains only in preaching, not in any practice. And what became clear is that you don't want to regulate media aid. They do not want to do so despite the fact that they have promised it, because they are active and passive, they have promised it in electoral programmes, in this Parliament, by the president, by the councillor, by general directors, by Members and Members... yes, let's go! That is the clear example of how the People's Party acts: every day promising things, which then manages to do the opposite. And he's not prepared to support the initiatives, nor are there any parliamentary groups here, nor do I bring the sector itself, because – I said it before – the BNG is only putting a voice to a demand for the Greek media, which have brought all the groups here, and that you, too, Mrs. Paula Prado, do not dare to lie, because there are accredited representatives there who will make sure they didn't introduce it to you too. Please! It's just that yours is a little bit... you should look at it, that compulsive insistence on lying, you should look at it, Mrs. Paula Prado. Yes, they introduced it to all the groups of this House, and we all do here is give it a voice, bring it here, because you make it impossible for the Greek people to have a voice and make it impossible for them to come here to the gallery to hear the things you say to them. It's a real spook that six years later, two laws and a half, the People's Party again says here that it's committed and that it doesn't make or let it do, that it doesn't make or let it do, that it allows public resources to continue to use in a completely discretional way. And why does he do it? Because it's really comfortable in that discretionary framework. The People's Party is comfortable in opacity, it's comfortable in the sale of wills. The People's Party is comfortable slaughtering the media that use Welsh, it's comfortable, the media that prioritizes Galicia. The People's Party is comfortable and has the shame of sending them to means that they use exclusively the Greek saying that on this occasion it will not be possible to count on you on the occasion of Galician Day, i.e., the Galician Day of Homeland, or the Galagas Day of Letters; they are sent to them from the Government saying that by the Greek media they cannot count on to insert institutional advertising.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u26	Finish, please, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u27	It's written, Mrs. Paula Prado. Or that they have the shame of sending a missile to the media using the very words of the Greek, telling them that they have to improve the Greek, that they have to improve the Greek. That's what you're comfortable with. And he's tired...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u28	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u29	...it's tired, and it would be impossible for a Member to get up here in this gallery to continue to oppose a government that has not existed for more than six years without the media cordon...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u30	Thank you very much, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u31	...bought with public resources. It would be impossible, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u32	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u33	With which, one more missed opportunity, one more violation of the People's Party. And I'm sorry that the Galaga Language Media Association, which demands unique and...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u34	Thank you, Mrs. Prado, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u35	...exclusively a minimum of justice, I have to...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u36	Your time is up, Mrs. Prado. Mrs. Prado. [[Applause]] Debate taken into account by the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, thereby creating and regulating a periodic economic benefit for women who suffer from gender-based violence
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u37	You have the floor to present the bill to Mrs. Adán Villamarín.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u38	Thank you, President. "Of those who sing to doves and ferns, they all say they have a woman's soul. Well, I don't sing them, virgin of Paloma, alas, what shall I have?" Castro's Rosalía was born as it was 178 years ago, would question identity, always seek equality and justice, even take it by hand. Using the words of one who was a Member of this House, writer and great acquaintance of Rosalía de Castro, Pilar García Negro, I will read: "In another aspect where the inaugural character is pioneer of our writer and shines with all intensity, is what has to do with the awakening of a specific consciousness of gender, as a woman, as a Galician, as a writer. It turns out that this consciousness is boner in all its production. Well read his work, he provides a summary of the themes that are still worrying, disturbing, passionate, uniting or dividing current feminism." That's why it's better to start with the verses of our poet Rosalía de Castro!, of our essayist, of our thinker, of our philosopher, as a tribute to all the Greek women, as a tribute to all the women who suffer from inequality. She suffered in a strongly unequal society, strongly patriarchal, but today inequality persists. We need to see it simply in multimillionaire marketing films and large audiences, but also in those public money that the German Government uses to subsidize a video by Enrique Iglesias clearly sexist. And I have to say, today inequality... yes, sexist is the word, well, I don't know, it means machist, patriarchal, I've already looked for more light, but if they want we can increase the degree of description of that kind of video clip. [[Murmurs.]] But since that's not the point, we're not going to go into analyzing that video, which actually projects an image of the sexist women, we're going to give figures just what the situation of women in Galicia is about the economic issue. I'm going to get the last report of what we know about the payroll. And what are the data? Greek women receive 24.2% less of the annual salary than men, which was collected when UXT presented this report in all media, as women have to work for 80 days more than men to receive the same salary. Is this inequality, yes or no? But the curious thing is that the pay gap has increased by almost four points since 2008 in Galicia, placing the wage gap of the women of Greece above the salary divide of the Spanish State, which, by the way, is the state that has the highest wage divides in all of Europe – exactly in fifth place –. What does that mean for the everyday life of women? For they earn less for every hour worked, who have lower pensions, that in every one of their old tranches suffer the salary divide, but rather than older women, who are closer to retirement, right now are those who have a higher wage gap. In fact, the Greek women live in strong inequality, and only one sample is the job situation: vulnerable jobs, higher female unemployment, greater part-time work and, as we see, less pay for the same job. A few days ago, February 22, was the Day for Pay Equality, next to being the Day of Equality between Men and Women, International Women's Day, March 8. Surely many and many of those who are in this House will commemorate that day, but today from the Galician Nationalist Block we want to take a small step. We know it won't eliminate patriarchy, which may not be a giant step, but it's a legislative text that we put the debate important for women, for women who suffer from gender-based violence, the greatest expression of inequality. And they'll ask why we bring this text here. First of all, the economic benefit of women who suffer from gender-based violence was created in 2006. His first call was through – as it is today – a grant order, an order that has its problems and difficulties. At that time it seemed that it could be an important process to put into operation an aid that was a pioneer in the state, whereas there was no other that was similar. The single payment was created in the 2004 Act, but let's remember that this payment requires the complaint, it requires that a process be initiated which, well, it has some consequences for the woman we consider at the time, which was considered by the people who intervened in the drafting, that it was necessary to overcome it. During 2007, the Greek Law for the prevention and treatment of gender-based violence was incorporated into its article 39. In this article it is clearly collected that the Government, that is, the Government, has an obligation to put these aids into operation annually. So he's been fulfilling different departure enlargements, with different budgets, in the last few years. He suffered an inflection in 2011, where the games dedicated to each stretch of women were reduced according to their economic situation. But I am not going to go into that detail, because today we are looking for a consensus stance and because the important thing is that we can take this initiative into consideration. Because, over the past nine years, what can we balance? That there is an important administrative problem, which is that since the date of submission of applications ends until the new date is opened, it takes several months where women who suffer from gender-based violence cannot perceive this aid, they cannot get the file to go forward. To show this, I simply bring the DOG of March 28, 2014, where the deadline for applications for this aid appears, a deadline which it collects very clearly, in its Article 2.3: the deadline for submitting applications will begin on the next day of its publication and will end on October 31, 2014. In the first and second magnification of credit, it is collected – and I also have it printed here – in particular the second enlargement of the budget, of Monday, 22 December 2014, where the shares to which the credit expansion is attributed appear; in the single article, in the second point, it makes very clear: "This amendment does not affect the period set out in that resolution for the submission of applications." Clearly, from October 31st until the new call is opened, several months have passed where it is not possible to request such help. Is this a trap? Yeah, it's a trap. Nine years later can we try to change it? I think so. We can try to change it, because there are regular aids. Let's think about an example of how Risga can be, where there is no such deadline, but there is a mechanism throughout the year in which one can be requested at any time; the file is started and, if all the requirements are met – allow me to parenthesis: that there are no administrative delays, as there is currently – because that person has the right to charge Risga. And right now there are those months in which you can't charge. But, in case they don't believe me, because at some point the words that we can read from the DOG are questioned, in January the College of Workers and Social Workers of Galicia, at a meeting I want to congratulate from this gallery and encourage the Members interested in these issues to go to the archive of this House, to download and listen to the professionals themselves, who are in contact every day with gender violence. They collected two important aspects – they said these professionals – and, in addition, they made a petition to which we were there in the Equality Commission, which we were trying to remedy. And one clear was that they criticized the deadline for submitting applications to access the so-called freedom wage, which goes from March to October, as I have just explained. And they focus on the problem that exists for women who make their requests from November. Of course, from November 1 to March – whenever it is – by order of publication in the CEO as it has been many months since they must wait for that time, and there is also a condition for reaching those aids: that this situation had been in the last twelve months. Well, we asked the committee: do you believe, ladies and gentlemen, that it would be better if we looked for a mechanism to overcome that impasse, and they said yes. And today, we bring here a law that, by repeating that article 39 of the law already in force, clearly sets out two questions: for this benefit, based on the IPREM – and then I will read the different stages –, I believe that from the order of 20% these accounts for the different situations – with or without children or the number of children that have the woman who is in gender violence – but – most importantly – allowing them to be asked throughout the year. This is, of course, a demand for women, for all workers, and nine years after assessing that it was a pioneering initiative that at this time, for example, Extremadura launched since 2014 in a similar way but also maintaining the obligation of the order of protection or denunciation – that is another subject that should be discussed in general – but I think we will take a step forward today if we take this text into consideration. We can then ask questions about the accounts, which must be the procedure, whether the deadline for its resolution should be one month or more, according to administrative needs, whether there should be administrative silence or not – which I believe to be yes –. But most importantly, before March 8, this House is taking a step forward; it may seem small, but for the more than 300 women who have access to this benefit every year it is very important. We'd be removing a trap for months, we'd be making it easier for many women and men working in social services, as we heard, as I said in the January session, for social workers. I was quite worried when the government replied not to this project through the gender impact report. And I want to remind this House that gender impact reports are to analyze gender relevance; that is, if a bill or legislative project improves women's lives and at what level it improves it, not to use the gender impact report to analyze issues that the Government disagrees with regarding a law. I was hoping for a little more neutrality in the gender impact reports, a subject also that in recent years we're going to see how it's going to fall free. But, of course, I was quite disgusted when I read this gender impact report without any kind of rigor – I'm going to say – scientific, none, just as an answer to this law. Are there aspects that don't like, that need to be changed? This is a consideration, nothing more than a consideration, but very important, because, apart from the symbols of March 8, we go out again to the street asking that the young women in Greece also have the right to decide on their body...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u39	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u40	...out of all these actions, ladies and gentlemen, essentially from the People's Party, I ask you to vote in favour of this initiative to take a step forward on a road that we started in 2006, which continued in 2007, which followed in 2009 and reached us here. It's important. And this really depends on how many women between the months of November and March have access to the salary of freedom. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u41	Thank you very much. Round of parliamentary groups. Joint Group. Mrs. Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u42	I, while the BNG spokesperson exposed the defense of this bill, observed no man heeding. Obviously, it's a subject that doesn't seem to interest the men of our country yet. And yet the figures of gender-based violence and the current situation of victims tell us that fighting this scourge is not a priority for the Government of the People's Party, since, before this problem of violence against women, it has as its priority the economic issues and the containment of expenditure. So last year's aid had to suffer two credit increases and by this year's 2015 they had to be increased by 4.5%, so they were totally insufficient to respond to gender-based violence. But we can translate gender-based violence policies into 28% less investment in anti-violence measures than in 2011, a budget of awareness cut up to almost 70%, a budget of the Union which in five years has increased from 60 million to 12.3 million euros. In the three modalities of economic assistance for the Union – annual, single payment and compensation – in 2014 408 women were granted during the seven months that are open. That's what the BNG voicer said: you'd better not be mistreated in the remaining five months, because you don't have any kind of coverage. 816 women obtained an order of protection, precautionary measures and removal orders in 2014, 187 less than in 2013. The reality of statistics and data from the General Council of the Judiciary say that the level of protection for women is really poor. 54.8% of the causes open for gender-based violence in Galicia ended with an overcrowding – their data from the General Council of the Judiciary. Galicia has the third data of free substance – i.e., when the complaint is inadmissible – lower than in Spain, but the provisional one, that is, when the judge considers that there is no basis for a conviction, higher than in the state; in 53.4% of the cases in which the judge decides that there is no basis for the conviction. As for free substance, in 12 of 18 the judge decreed that there were no reasonable indications of crime; in 662 of 690 provisional substances, the commission of the crime was not justified. This data tells us that women have to study criminal law in order to be able to know how to act when they exercise gender-based violence against us. The women who are going to the judge should be guided to present these demands in conditions that demonstrate the crime and not simply to overcome and close all the doors, to send them back home after they have filed the complaint and handed them back into the hands of the batterer. The data show that there are clear signs of alarm that show that it is backing up in the fight against gender-based violence. Last year 93% of the women killed did not have any protective measures, and nevertheless 31% of them had previously reported. In 2009 there were 6,068 complaints lodged in Galicia; in 2013, 5,174; and in 2014, 3,893. That is, the lack of support, the slowness and harassment that women are often subjected to by judges and police are responsible for this descent. For proof, the protection orders requested in 2014 were issued 976.348 were refused, only 628 were granted. And we all know that without a court sentence or a protection order you can't opt for any kind of help. In 2013, ten Galician judges rejected all victims' requests. The Lugo Judiciary Party has denied 78% of the protection orders, 30 out of 38 women. In the Santiago area this percentage reaches 84% of the orders, where 42 of the 50 applications were denied. In 2014, psychological aid was reduced by 35% with the new requirements that added to the Union, causing greater defence, mainly of minors. In addition, we need to take into account the hardening to access the active income of insertion and the establishment of abusive legal fees, which, together with retrograde labour reform, makes women victims of macho violence, their children and their children more vulnerable than ever. The deprotection to which girls between 16 and 18 are subjected, in addition, from now on thanks to this retrograde reform of the Abortion Law, which obliges them to go to their parents to be able to abort. Do you think the PP thinks all girls have understanding parents willing to help their daughter make the right decision? Do you think the People's Party is going to happen when that girl's progenitor is a bully? What are you gonna do to the girl? What do the People's Party think about where they're gonna abort those girls who don't dare tell him at home? They're going to abort where it was done before, underground, and they're going to die again, young German teenagers, Spanish teenagers, at the tables of any heartbreak or heartbreak. Because you, gentlemen of the People's Party – and so the president is calm – don't kill these women, don't kill these girls; you just stop them from living; just stop them from making their decisions, that they can protect their lives, the lives of their children and their daughters, that prevent them from living safe. For example, last year no technical reports were issued by the General Secretariat of Equality for the purpose of granting rent to women victims of gender-based violence, either or just one. The economic crisis cannot be the excuse for turning back on such vital and important issues as it is to end gender-based violence. Last year he ended up in Galicia with 9 victims killed, not counting those that are not accounted for in official statistics: missing persons, battered, raped, discriminated against; these are not in government statistics. Victims who haven't seen themselves surrounded by an accomplice government, are complicit in a veiled derogation from the comprehensive law against gender violence, which is far from being integral to the present day and which also has no proper budget. We have a formal equality, but we do not have a real equality, where women continue to attend widespread impunity in the face of the breach of the right to a dignified life. Women who need us to come to broad agreements to safeguard their existence and protection, as well as those of their children and daughters. Tomorrow can be any of us, tomorrow can be our daughter, our mother, our sister. That violence doesn't distinguish ages, ideologies or class reasons, we're all victims of this patriarchal system. And we, as representatives of citizenship, have a duty to the right to a dignified life and to defend a worthy life for all women.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u43	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u44	Therefore, seeing the imperative need for this law to ensure that economic benefit is a right and not an alms, I shall vote in favour of taking this bill into consideration, which I hope will be adopted unanimously. And if not, I hope the women of the People's Party should have a responsible vote and a vote that defends the lives of the Galicians of our country. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u45	Thank you very much. Parliamentary Group of the Left Galician Alternative. You have the word to Mrs. Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u46	Thank you, President. Well, the truth is, we're dealing with an important issue within the independence of women victims of gender-based violence, which I suppose is equal to the collation, just like other initiatives today, because we're close to that 8th of March. We live in a patriarchal system, with inequality between men and women with a lot of roots, embedded in social customs and, of course, in the economic system, in politics, in values and in the very construction of the society we inhabit. Any of us, women, who are here, are starting from their birth in inequality. We could have a twin sister, born in the same place, go to the same school, which we would have from the beginning more difficulty showing our abilities, to be valued with the same or greater abilities, not to be subject to prejudice and preconceived ideas, not to be discriminated against, harassed or harassed, only by being women. All of us suffer, all of these discriminations, where micromachims make up small forms of violence against women. Violence takes its maximum expression with so-called gender-based violence or direct physical/psychic violence, and also for us, for our group, for prostitution. In the case of gender-based violence, there is an annulling effect of the woman, an eraser of her autonomy, a destruction. It's hard to know when women fall into that, but it's clear that everything starts affecting the first, the micromachisms that society produces and reproduces as something normal, acceptable, tolerable. These learned social patterns lead many women, under the fallacy of romantic love, heterocentrist, firmly machist, to tolerate discrimination, at the most subtle beginning, at least, increasingly authoritarian, until they are already put in the spiral of violence, and this is therefore a reality. That is why society is responsible and public authorities are responsible, so administrations – in this case, the Galician Union – have an obligation to act. The batterer, as he said, nullifies the victim socially, removing her from all the good for her: from friendships, from personal affections, from professional aspirations, from people, from artistic, political, intellectual worries, and generates a real dependence, not only affective, but usually an economic dependency. So they start from a double handicap: the economic dependency and the difficulty to save that dependency. Economic adequacy and support, therefore, are, as many of the rapporteurs have agreed in this Parliament's Equality Commission, one of the most important things in getting a woman to abandon her abuser. Where are you going if you don't have to eat, if you don't have to pay for the rent, if you don't have to pay for the light or the water from your dwelling? And everything gets even more complicated, obviously, when there are children and children in that set. Where are you going if you don't have a house to offer to your sons and daughters or if you can't feed them or dress them? That's why it's so important to ensure economic independence. Because, besides, when that woman goes out to the street, it won't be easy for her to find a job – she's said here before. I'm probably looking for him, but we've got a tremendous stoppage. We've got the latest data from the Ministry on the table, which has grown in January. But according to the EPA in the last quarter of 2014, it was found that women continue to be in line, with 21% unemployment, and with greater differences as to the most distant age ranges: in older women, closer to retirement, and younger women, closer to adolescence. That 21% unemployment, in many cases, is not accompanied by any allowance, either because it has been exhausted, or because it has never had it or because it is not granted, because in many cases family incomes are calculated. And this is very important. If you also count the aggressor's income or the aggressor's properties, in some cases there is difficulty in accessing subsidies. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the people's party is involved, but I am not referring to this aid, I am referring to social benefits, am I not only to this one? So, the economic benefits they make? They perform a double task: on the one hand, they directly help women with their children and daughters to be emancipated and, at the same time, they serve as an incentive for other women to be encouraged to denounce, because there will be – let us make it clear – the ability to denounce if there is no further help; that is, if women do not feel socially, economically, and by the powers of the Administration, they will obviously not be encouraged. The ideal is for women to have or reach their own jobs in order to maintain and maintain their family – if they have it – but, while this does not happen and cannot access other types of benefits, income is superseded by economic aid. Helps that up until now, as Mrs. Adam has said here, were regulated within this Wellness Council and that are clearly insufficient, insufficient, because no one has been able to explain to the Commission how it was possible that in the data we have so far, from 2012 to 2013, the beneficiaries would have decreased. As you can't explain, it's been said here that this call has a start and an end and there are a few months where no requests can be made. And when we're -- I repeat -- in a situation where most of the victims don't have the economic capacity to abandon their aggressor. I remember that we also asked in that commission for the granting of Risga, for the abbreviated procedure which supposedly covers the rules of the Galician Union, but it does not know or answer. The victim women seem to have to wait along with the usual petitions, which are already suffering a terrible delay. We are debating here on a number of occasions in the House of Parliament, and it is not being implemented, or even that positive administrative silence which has been approved in this House. Imagine depending on that to abandon an aggressor, three months, four, five, six, or whatever delays the administration in processing it. The reality is, on the one hand or on the other, you're not giving yourself enough help to make these women independent and keep their families, if they have them. Even Risga wouldn't make it to anything like that. Therefore, the wage of freedom is also an important emancipatory tool, and, of course, accompanied, in addition, by measures with a necessary social and laboral inclusion of women victims of gender-based violence. It is clear that, as Mrs Adán pointed out, it is necessary to improve the granting of aid, as they are conceivable, those administrative problems which you have explained quite well, for we have already discussed also in some committee, that closure of the deadline for applications, the counties, and even some requirements for access to the aid itself. My group would like to discuss all these issues, and that is why we are going to vote for it, of course, in favour. And my group would also like to talk about why migrant women in an irregular situation remain unprotected and out of access to these aids. Or even because prostitution – which we also consider to be an extreme form of gender-based violence – the victims of this prostitution and trafficking are left out of this kind of help, because they are distracted. Let's also remember that a large part of these, and the percentage of women victims, are irregular migrant women – we talk about trafficking in persons, don't we? We therefore want to debate this, too, and we would like this bill to be able to get to the debate in this Parliament. And, therefore, since it is a very important and serious enough issue to give you strict treatment and to have a broad political debate on access, and how useful these aids are in fact, we are going to vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u47	Socialist Parliamentary Group. You have the word to Mrs. Acuña do Campo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u48	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies. To begin by announcing that from the Socialist Parliamentary Group we are going to support the consideration of this bill that Mrs Adam was proposing today, on behalf of the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, a proposal that seeks to modify the regulation of the economic benefits that the Government of Greece is making to women who suffer from gender-based violence. And we're going to support her because, no doubt, it's necessary. Indeed, the Swedish Law for the Prevention of the Comprehensive Treatment of Gender Violence calls for the commitment of the Union to establish an economic benefit for women who suffer from this shameful violence. But this commitment, in practice, is not being implemented properly, and although the Government of Feijóo does not want to admit it, there are many difficulties, constraints and delays in these approaches, which are causing many criticisms and even complaints from the people and associations working with these victims. But the serious thing is, they're also risking the lives of the victims and the people in charge, because these difficulties in accessing the fences cause some women to come back with their batters, because they don't have the economic resources to maintain that independence of the aggressor that every victim needs and claims. But let's look at what's going on in practice. As your lordships know, Mr. Feijóo's government, to match accounts, to cut the expense by trying to improve the deficit, cheats. He cheats and closes the accounting year on month 9, on month 10, since then not month 12. The problem is, for this reason, for a few months a year, if you prevent access to all public approaches, all approaches, and also women who suffer violence and their families. But in addition, the Government Feijóo is even saving money with such help to women victims of violence. Something, ladies and gentlemen, intolerable, immoral, but real. And explain. The first aid the victim receives while processing the so-called freedom wage is RAI – active income of 400 euros. But it turns out, then, the government will cut you off from the time you're allowed to charge the salary for freedom these months in which you've been receiving RAI. Of course, RAI and the salary for freedom is not even – RAI is about 400 euros, while the salary for freedom is around 600 – so the Government saves 200 euros per month from the victim, even though the honourable Member of the People's Parliamentary Group does not like it. In addition, although the Government always repeats and assumes that the credit that regulates these approaches is an extensive credit, that statement is very nuanced, for in practice, and as it has already denounced Mrs. Adán, since the end of the game enabled to attend to the victims until the enlargement comes open a parenthesis in which no new aid is granted; and that parenthesis, by accounting matters, is extended, and much. Ladies and gentlemen, the victims tell us that an emergency aid should be created, from an area similar to the pay for freedom itself – so that the EUR 400 does not come for anything, especially if there are family members in charge – and they also ask that such aid be immediately covered until it is through the salary, and that it does not count, of course, in those 12+6 months which lasts the salary. It is also necessary to speed up the process, but, look!, because the saturation of the CIMs and social services will make it very difficult. It takes about three months to obtain the accreditation of victims of violence through that route. By the way, social services and CIM services that we'll see even as they end when the PP completes its implementation of this local government reform. In addition, we will support this proposal because it is very timely. It is very timely, ladies and gentlemen, because we are witnessing a very serious rebound of gender violence in Galicia, propitiated, without any doubt, and although they do not like to hear it from the members of the People's Parliamentary Group, because of the backwardness that has provoked Feijóo's policies in the field of equality. In 2013 male violence killed 3 women in Galicia and in 2014 that figure doubled, reaching up to 6. I mean, we're seeing the victims increase and, however, the aid is reduced, by the way, while the Popular Parliamentary Group looks to the other side and always systematically votes against everything that is proposed in this House; we'll see what they're going to do today. I remind you that he has rejected even a socialist initiative in which we ask him to study what happens to the victims who are murdered after he has denounced his abuser. Ladies and gentlemen, the murders are just the tip of the iceberg, so if the tip grows, we have to be very clear that what we don't see is growing much more. But in addition to supporting this proposal with our vote, we also want to support it with our speech, with a very critical speech to the policies that the People's Party is making, in addition to both the People's Party that governs in the state and that governs in the Council of Galicia, where Mr. Feijóo applies, he enthusiastically supports and accolades the policies of cuts and the popular legislative changes that both harm women. Budget cuts which Feijóo has applied since he arrived in the Government and which he continues to apply. For example, this year 2015 has done so again, by removing the game for women in a particularly vulnerable situation, by cutting back the games for the prevention and promotion of equality and for the protection and support of women who suffer violence. But also cuts applied by Feijó to public services: health, education, social services, dependency law, all those things that directly affect women. As for the legislative changes of the PP, we see daily, ladies, as they are taught – and I emphasize this word – if they are taught with women. Now they're going to do it with the weakest: the minors and the disabled, the ones who don't hesitate to use as currency of exchange, as a sacrifice to sacrifice in the temple of intolerance in that section of the PP made up by the most reactionary right and that both Mr. Feijóo and Mr. Rajoy are so aware – I wonder why – Ladies and gentlemen, the Law on Sexual and Reproductive Health and Voluntary Interruption of Pregnancy, in its article 13.4 – if the People's Group wants to change in Congress – actually collects the right of 16- and 17-year-old women to decide on their maternity, but sets a condition for that right, and must inform at least one of their legal representatives:...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u49	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u50	...father or mother or guardian, except in case that information causes a serious conflict in families with a history of violence, abuse or threat. So, ladies and gentlemen, I wonder how this reform that the People's Party is going to help us in the way of equality and the fight against violence when it seeks to legislate for the most vulnerable woman, the youngest, to have to ask her consent about her body to a violent and abusive father; when it obliges a 17-year-old woman who is married to ask permission – we don't know whether her father or her husband – to be the ones who decide about her body and about her right to be mother.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u51	End, please, Mrs. Acuña.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u52	Ladies and gentlemen, Madam President, for all these reasons we are going to vote in favour of this proposal that seeks to help women who suffer violence...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u53	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u54	...and for all these reasons we're going out to the street on March 8 by supporting the claim of feminism and women. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u55	People's Group. You have the floor to Mrs. Oubina Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u56	Thank you, Madam President. To welcome all the boys and girls who are accompanying us here today in this gallery. And, well, welcome Mrs Martínez too, who said that the men were not paying attention, and Mrs Martínez had just returned after leaving the plenary during this debate, in addition to confusing the powers of the state and the powers of the council itself. The truth is that throughout this debate, the spokespersons of all groups of the little opposition were devoted to talking about the text they present today and many other things. So today, the Galego Nationalist Block brings here the consideration of a bill that in its advertisement says it is created and that a periodic economic benefit is regulated for victims of gender violence. We will not support this consideration, ladies and gentlemen, for the following reasons. First. As you know, this measure of aid to victims of gender-based violence as are the periodic economic benefits to which the proposal refers not to law – not to others – has already been created in Galicia for nine years. Galicia, of course, was the first community to articulate these economic aids for women victims of violence, which you are asking to regulate today. Until last year we were the only autonomous community with these kinds of measures, and even though other communities like Andalusia, like Catalonia or the Basque Country, also contemplate them in their laws, today you know that you don't articulate them. It is more, both in the amount to be perceived and in the time that women have these aids, we continue to be the first, and they are regulated, of course – which you have already said – in the two autonomous communities in the same way. This kind of measure, which aims to help women break up with a situation of violence, is part of the political agenda of the Galician Union. In most autonomous communities, policy frameworks have been adopted in order to adopt specific measures on awareness-raising, prevention and victim care, which allow – that is – to develop and expand those policies against gender-based violence. And in this sense, because in the Greek Law of 2007 for the prevention and treatment of gender-based violence, article 39 says textually: "The Galician Union will establish an economic benefit directed to women who suffer from gender-based violence, aimed at enabling their autonomy and economic independence from the aggressor. This benefit shall be paid periodically as soon as its situation of violence is believed and the competent department shall be responsible for regulating the basis for the call and the content of such aid." And like the balance of these aids we can make, of the three types of aid that Galicia has, from 2006 until now, a budget of more than 22 million euros has been allocated, so more than 3,000 victims have been cared for. If we're aware that the budgets have decreased by more than 2,000 million a year with respect to the budgets they had in 2008, I think things have been done and done reasonably well. Not only were the aid maintained, but every year the budget was expanded – and you know it – which enables more women to care for it, for example from the 259 women who were cared for in 2008 to the 336 women who benefited in 2014. You say women aren't covered all year. Look, women who receive another benefit that they may receive and wish to choose this because it is more beneficial to them can do so, and so collect the annex in Article 2 of the basics of this aid. Other measures that later, if you give me time, I'll tell you. Therefore, data shows that compliance with this measure that is already covered by article 39 of the law has not been a problem for all this time. Year after year all victims who met the requirements and year after year increased the number of women receiving this benefit. Secondly, he says in his text, on page 2 in particular, that the annual call for such aid leaves the Executive's decision of turn to his summons and also to his budget allocation. In this sense, I believe that the article of law is clear. It understands the obligation of the aid regardless of the deputy executive. Similarly, they were established when you had the responsibilities of government and they were also established with this government. For years now, budgets have included this adaptation – as you know – which is binding, with the express consideration of expandable credit, in order to be able to respond to all applications submitted with the right to this benefit. In the same Article 39 it states that the department responsible for regulating the bases of these aid accounts shall be the competent department in the field of equality. This has been done in the past – you know – and it is done today. What do you propose by this law? To develop an article of the law through a new law, which, as you know, is not the most practical or at the level of processing, but quite the opposite, because the fact that management is through a new law, neither makes management more flexible, nor makes processing more flexible. The formula currently used allows you to modify, if so, allow you to correct, incorporate new measures that can benefit victims relatively easily – and you know – and that would not be possible if the aspects to be modified were regulated by a new law, as proposed, since any modification would require a much longer and much more complex processing. With regard to the amounts to be perceived, the maximum resolution time, the administrative silence – which you have also referred to – is currently developing agile and preferentially, taking into account the need to provide the documentation that other administrations have to issue. Let's say that the period of a month that you propose could be insufficient for the whole of your processing, and that already in your intervention it has also called into question. Today, the average time this Government solves these victim aid is one month and twenty days, which reduces in more than four months the deadline it is set in its own order. Both the period of time in which these aids are perceived as the amount to be perceived and the formula used in this call is the same as in the past, the formula that was articulated in the past and when you were then responsible for articulating these measures, and can reach in all cases the 800 euro monthly for twelve months. But, well, you have the opportunity here too, and you could explain to us why the resolution of those files at that time, in 2008, it turns out that it exceeded eight months. So it's not gonna be what "counsels see and then I don't have," right? The administrative silence because we believe it is not a thing, because it is unusual, from the point of processing of public aid, and it may be the case that aid is granted to those who are not entitled to such benefits. And I would say that somehow the amount is the same as what you now perceive as the one that was perceived before. Duration is the same when you were responsible for it now. If this person receives another benefit and wishes to resign, it turns out that this benefit can be accommodated to the new one. Therefore, we are not going to support – because I am finishing – this non-law proposal, which only aims to develop article 39 of the law by another law, which in turn must be developed by means of a regulation. Secondly, when you, Mrs. Adam, were also responsible for articulating these measures, you didn't propose this change; then you had the opportunity to do it and you didn't. We believe that, despite the economic crisis...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u57	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u58	...to have – finished, President – less budgets than since 2008, this Government has put more money in order to meet all the requests and meet all the women who need it. We are still the first autonomous community in which women victims can afford this economic benefit more often and also perceive it for longer. So, thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u59	Thank you very much. Replica from the author group of the bill. Mrs. Adam Villamarín.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u60	Thank you, President. There are parliamentary debates and parliamentary debates. This parliamentary debate, Mrs Oubina, is quite sad. You'd have to listen to your argument. Why won't the People's Party vote for this law? Because since 2006 it's done this, because we're not going to change a coma, because, well, in the Law of 2007 it's picked up like this. So, as you pick up this way and you textually read what the Government says through the report on the impact of gender, the Members of the People's Party don't stop at a time to think exactly what they're going to vote on, a bill that actually amends an effective law, because the experts, the women who work with the victims of gender violence, the women's groups, all say that there's a need to improve that wage for freedom. That is, I certainly consider it a good idea, but not perfect, not much less, not much less. So how can you improve? By improving the counties, by improving the deadlines for perception, and above all - and so I did so much in my intervention - improving the administrative process, which today prevents a woman from applying for the salary of freedom from November 1st until March, from asking for it. You can shake your head at what you want and the Members of the People's Party may be deaf or not, but that's the reality, don't say it by me – that I keep repeating it constantly, and the voices of the opposition on equal terms – said by the women themselves, by the workers themselves. So, you guys today are clear that they're going to vote against women being able to apply for freedom throughout the year. I've already said so, and now that the vice president is present in this debate for his vote, I want to give you a little summary, because he hasn't been there before. What we're asking for is consideration. The administrative aspects that need to be improved will be improved in the presentation process, here the spokespersons have already referred to some of them and we are willing to modify what is modifiable. But if there are social benefits like Risga all year round, why not this one? What's the matter? Now that the president arrives, I also don't know whether to make a brief summary, Mr President, since he joins the debate, because we are in the final process of this law for his consideration. We believe it is realistic, very realistic and would facilitate the lives of many women victims of gender-based violence, and all groups are willing to change what is needed, but the important thing is that a woman who suffers from gender-based violence can access the wages of freedom throughout the year, and now does not. I'll tell you, Mr. Vice-President, please, because there's very little time left and I have to try to convince you. Anyway, it doesn't matter, we're going to improve this text and we're thinking about bringing it back to the House by November 25, because we think it's a fundamental issue and you can't get to this House and press a button without knowing which text of law we're going to vote on, because many women depend exactly on having a salary, having an economic perception to be able to abandon their aggressor. It works relatively well, but it's not perfect. Why can't we improve it? What's the matter? You always say we don't bring proposals to the House. This is a concrete, very concrete proposal in front of March 8. We wait for the will, they can take a few minutes, they can debate it, they can spite the law, they can go beyond this gender impact report, but I think it's absolutely reasonable. You can't come here, come up, Mrs. Oubina, to this gallery, talk about equality policies...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u61	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u62	...and simply forget, yes, yes, that you gave no alternative to the law that we present today. And by the way, since I started with Rosalía de Castro and one of his verses, I also want to finish on his day, after being amazed at his vote against this law, one of his verses of that poem that I also want to dedicate fundamentally to the president: "External in his country." "In the old covered balcony of ivy and iris he sat silent and sadly in front of the old Temppro." Stay there. Castro Rosalía.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u63	Thank you very much, Mrs. Adam. Voting of legislative texts
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u64	Let us turn to the vote on the legislative texts. We shut the doors. We begin with the vote on the Bill, on the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, on institutional advertising in Galicia. We vote. Voting of the consideration of the Proposal for a Law, of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, institutional advertising of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. Consequently, the consideration of this bill is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u65	We voted on the second proposal in relation to the periodic economic benefit for women who suffer from violence. We vote. Voting of the consideration of the Proposal for a Law, of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, which creates and regulates a periodic economic benefit for women who suffer from gender-based violence. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. Consequently, the consideration of this bill is rejected. Agenda Change
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u66	Before I proceed with the agenda, I inform your lordships of a change, in connection with a request from the Government: the questions of register number 31804 by Mr. Fajardo, and 33696 by Mrs. Gallego, will be substanceed after the appearance, which will start right now. Thank you very much. And we continue with the point of appearances. The opinion of Mrs. Work and Well-being advisor, on his own request, to report on the two programmes agreed with social agents on employment
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u67	You have the floor for your intervention by Mrs. Beatriz Mato Otero's Labour and Wellness Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u68	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, gentlemen. I compare in this House, my own request, to tell you about the employment plans that we are pushing from the Labour Council to two groups that are priority for this Government, which are young people under the age of 25 and also long-term unemployed. The youth guarantee program and the special employment activation program are two initiatives of this government, new ones, designed for a single purpose, which is to improve their employability, so they have better job opportunities. A commitment that is irrevocable to this Government and that once again counts on the collaboration and work of the social agents of Galicia, to those whom I want to start by recognizing their height of vision and their effort to design among all the measures that we are going to put into effect in this semester and which I will further detail. And that our target number one, ladies and gentlemen, has been, is and will continue to be job recovery. It can't be any other way as long as these figures are kept completely unacceptable from unemployed people in our community. For all of them without exception, to improve their employability, to offer them new opportunities in the labour market, we work day by day from the entire Government of the Union. We fight with all our mechanisms and tools that are in our hands to minimize the number of unemployed. And despite the fact that there has been a better evolution of unemployment figures in the last year, we continue to work without rest, because we cannot fall into self-comprehensiveness. Although the interpretations of indicators and statistics may be biased or interested, what is absolutely true is that 2014 was better than the year 2013 about employment, and I can say that 2015 will be better than the year 2014 about employment. In 2014, about 40% of the number of workers who have been affected by employment regulation files in our community has fallen; in particular, the number of workers affected by extinction employment regulation files has decreased by 60%. In Galicia in 2014 there were fewer companies competing with creditors, namely 28% less than there were in 2013. Also in 2014 fewer companies were dissolved than in 2013, namely 21.1%. If we're talking about registered unemployment, it's 19.145 people who today are not targeted at unemployment with respect to the previous year. As a matter of fact, Galicia is the fifth autonomous community in which unemployment was most largely registered in absolute terms, and perhaps the most positive thing is to talk about those nearly 12,000 people more noted in membership of Social Security. It was this year, in 2014, the first time the annual membership has taken place since 2007, that is, since before the economic crisis. But – I insist – it would be irresponsible to comply or be self-comprehensible, as much as it would be irresponsible not to acknowledge these advances. We know that we have a lot of work ahead of us, that we have to consolidate this fall of unemployment and above all strengthen the creation of new jobs, and above all because we have 259,000 reasons to work more and more hard every day. And if unemployment is our target number 1, priority – as it cannot be otherwise – are the most difficult groups in the labour market today, such as young people and girls, such as people at risk of social exclusion, such as people with disabilities or those with long-term unemployed. Our commitment to any of these four collectives is total and absolute, and so it has been from the very first moment, a bet that we have continuously reinforced by designing and implementing programs that were pioneers and also new ones, as we are doing for example with people at risk of social exclusion through a pioneering order in our community that is the order of perceived income of social integration through the municipalities, an order that was first published in 2014 and that we re-edited in 2015 but this time doubling our commitment and moving from 5 million to 10 million euros; so, we also doubled it after seeing the exceptional welcome that it has and that it has not only by 600 people who would benefit in 2014, but also by the municipalities and even society in general. So now in 2015 we will finance through that order that about 1,000 people who benefit from social integration income have a job opportunity. And also last year we lead the implementation of the first cross-sectional plan, the first Youth Employment Plan in Galicia, among three councils: the Economic Council, the Education Council and the Labour Council, intended exclusively for children under 30 years of age; no Government had done so before. This initiative has developed since 2014 nine measures, with a total budget of 100 million euros for the years 2014 and 2015, and of course we are currently developing. This plan, along with all the measures that we are developing in favor of our young people's employability, is undoubtedly contributing to improving their expectations in the labour market. In fact, in 2014, unemployment among children under 25 years of age in Galicia decreased by 21.5%, i.e. 15.6% more than the unemployment rate in general; i.e., we now have 3,600 young people under 25 years of age under unemployment, which places Galicia as Spain's first autonomous community with a higher unemployment reduction in children under 25. Even today, a newspaper echoes this news, once again, to see that Galicia is the community where unemployment has been reduced most in children under the age of 25. But, of course, we do not conform to or feel satisfied. We continue to bet on the workers and workers in our community, and in particular on these two groups of people who spoke at the beginning of my intervention: on those under the age of 25 and on the long-term unemployed. The first of the plans that I will present today, the Youth Guarantee Programme, is a European programme aimed at young people under 25 years of age who are neither occupied nor integrated into the education or training system. Our goal in this new program is to ensure that all young people receive a job offer or receive an offer of continuing education, training for employment or training for a period of practice, and that they do so within a maximum of four months since formal education is completed or unemployed. It should be noted, however, that for children under 25 years of age to be beneficiaries of this programme, they must voluntarily register in it. That is our commitment to this new youth guarantee system. In Galicia, the survey of active population says we have in our community 31,000 boys and girls under the age of 25 who are potential beneficiaries of this program. But I insist that they should take the initiative to participate and actively note in this programme. This is a program designed specifically to complement the plan of what I was talking about earlier, the Youth Employment Plan, which has been in place since 2014. This new Youth Guarantee Programme is going to be developed in our community, as a little bit, this year and next year, and it's going to count on a budget of 49 million euros. Or, in other words, to the 100 million euros that we have already launched in 2014, these European funds must be added to them, so they will be about 150 million euros for youth employment policies in the coming years. On the other hand, we understand that it is also necessary to commit to the collective of long-term unemployed people who also have family burdens. Hence the work developed, together with the social agents, to define measures that shape this special programme of activation for employment in our community. Through this program, guidance, training and qualification measures will be developed for these workers, and the beneficiaries of this plan will be the same as those who will receive the accompaniment income of 426 euros monthly which the Central Government has put in place – also with the agreement of the social agents – and which will serve as a help at a time of difficulty while committed to actively taking part in initiatives for their work inclusion. In Galicia there are about 20,000 potential beneficiaries of this program, according to the information contained in the Public Employment Service. It is close to 20,000 people who meet the requirements to be beneficiaries of this income, for which they must of course apply for it, apply for it and undertake to be active in the search for employment and in the improvement of their curriculum. It's 20,000 people who, in addition to their accompaniment income, will count in Galicia – and by their own decision of this government – with other possibilities of improving their employability. This places Galicia as the first community in the whole state to design a complementary plan of specific measures for this collective, a plan which in this case has six measures and an additional EUR 10 million to the general budgets of the Galician Union for this year. For any new program, resource or measure related to employment to achieve maximum efficiency and best results it is essential that it be the product of dialogue and consultation with social agents. That's why I think it's very important to stress that the measures I have just outlined in these two plans have been agreed upon within the framework of social dialogue. He counted on the signature of the National Trade Union of Labour Commissions, the UGT of Galicia, the Confederation of Galician Entrepreneurs and the president of the Union. Taking up the demands and recommendations of trade union and business representatives is undoubtedly the best guarantee of success for these two new initiatives, two plans that are to be added to the 29 agreements we have reached since the past legislation in the framework of social dialogue, as well as other timely agreements to which we have reached in recent years, which will in some way be the decisive step forward for the revitalization of social dialogue. Another key feature of these two new programmes is that we are carrying out them through close cooperation between administrations. And we do so with the aim of achieving the highest degree of efficiency and that these measures achieve their essential purpose. With regard to the first programme, the Youth Guarantee Programme, we are coordinated both with the European Union and with the Central Government. We must not forget that it was the European Council that proposed a youth employment initiative two years ago for European regions with a unemployment rate of over 25%. In the case of the special employment activation programme in Galicia, we are directly coordinated with the State, which approved this strategy in December and also agreed with the main social agents. In any case, these are two programs that are fully consistent with the main lines of the active employment policies we've been developing since this council, and that's why the new plans will only strengthen and complement the bet we've seen in the last six years since this government. That's why some of these measures included in the plans are coincidentally, but others are also specific and new. But, in any case, its purpose is to offer an answer, if appropriate, more suitable for each collective to which it is directed. They are designed and thought about the potential and needs of their participants. In total, these two plans before this Parliament today are fifteen measures that incorporate these two strategies, designed to make more than 50,000 people potentially benefit from them. And these two plans have an budget that goes up to 60 million euros. These fifteen measures are divided into four main axes: improvement of intermediation – as a first axis –; improvement of employability; support for recruitment and promotion of entrepreneurship. Both programs are putting forward an effective improvement in labour intermediation, an improvement that we hope to achieve through the recruitment of new mentors and labour prospecting technicians in the Public Employment Service of Galicia. These will carry out support work as well as advice to participants in these programmes. We are therefore expected to recruit 131 new technicians, 75 associated with the activation programme, and 56 associated with the Youth Guarantee Programme. And we repeat again that it's 131 new technicians that promote public intermediation, that is to say, they promote the Public Service of Employment. The second axis of these plans focuses on the measures that will make a real improvement in the curriculum and employability of our workers. We will achieve this by offering, first and foremost, quality training; secondly, by providing practice in companies that serve as a gateway to a labour market; thirdly, by implementing mixed programmes that include training and recruitment; and fourthly, by using a formula of contracts such as dual training. Training is undoubtedly one of the key factors in improving the employability of workers and therefore also their real opportunities in the labour market. Statistics clearly point out that the more training our workers have, the greater their chances of accessing a job. Thus, at present, almost seven out of every ten Greeks – 66% – have a low qualification – or directly none – from among the Greeks that today are noted in unemployment. On the other hand, the unemployed are found who have a university degree, which is only one in ten unemployed. One in ten unemployed has university training. So, to bet on training is also to do it with the possibilities of employment. But ours is not a bet for any type of training, but for a training that is of the highest quality, that is linked to obtaining a certificate of professionalism and that really improves its curriculum. In fact, since 2009, it has been close to 50,000 of the Greeks and the Greeks who have obtained a certificate of professionalism of national validity, which puts Galicia at the head of all the self-employed in certified training. And we also bet on training directly linked to the needs and demands of the labour market and looking for employment deposits that combine both theoretical and practical knowledge. And this is demonstrated by the initiatives to improve employability that we have designed within the framework of these two plans that we are presenting today. One of the new measures that includes both plans is the launch of the Programme for the acquisition of experience in non-profit entities. I mean, non-profit entities will have the opportunity to hire these beneficiaries of these two programs for a year, with a full grant of their contract. In addition, both programmes also include the acquisition of technological skills, in languages, of certificates of professionalism. And the Active Program also includes key competencies. These are different training actions directed at low-skilled workers, or directly none, designed to provide a preparation that is tailored to the needs of the productive tissue. It must be acknowledged that of the 31,000 young people under the age of 25 who appear in the survey of active population as unemployed, 74% of these 31,000 have very low education, and in particular 50% of these 31,000 have only the Primary School Certificate. So, on the other hand, nearly 20,000 unemployed who can benefit from the Activation Program, which are long-term unemployed, are accompanied by similar figures: 70% have very low training, and about 30% have only primary education. Through its band, the Youth Guarantee Plan also individually includes mixed training and employment programs, in collaboration with local entities, but specific to children under 25. They are programmes in which, at the same time as entering a job, young people receive quality training and contribute to work of general interest, in this case works primarily linked to new technologies, innovation or socio-health care, or any emerging sector. On the other hand, non-working practices in companies are directly linked to those under 25 years of age, in which case they have university training, to provide them with the possibility of performing practices in a real environment. And we're also going to develop a specific program so that young people can resume their studies, either to get the ESO title or to advance in basic or middle-grade vocational training. Even so, the Programme for the activation of long-term unemployed is laid down by the dual training formula, which is directed specifically to those under 30 years of age, which is a contract specially designed for people with low qualification and difficulty of job insertion, which has a wage, of course, according to the collective agreement of the contractor and which is associated with a training activity of at least 25% of the time of the contract. The third axis for both programmes is recruitment support measures. In the case of the Youth Guarantee Programme we will support both indefinite recruitment and the transformation of temporary contracts into indefinite. And also, because this is agreed within the dialogue, we will encourage temporary recruitment of beneficiaries for at least six months. And we're going to support contracts in emerging sectors such as R & D+i or green jobs, or social health care for dependent people. In addition, the long-term unemployed programme offers companies that hire them the possibility of making this income compatible with EUR 426, during the five-month State grants, with persons who are hired on a non-State basis. What Galicia does is complementary, if the contract is for a year, these 426 euros/months the rest of the months; that is, seven months, so that in Galicia the person would benefit from this plan that is contracted for a year will have the coverage of 426 euros/months the 12 months of the year. In other words, in Galicia, a long-term unemployed person hired by a company through this plan will receive a total aid of EUR 3,000 from the Galician Union and that corresponding to the five months by EUR 426 from the state. If the contract is an indefinite contract, this aid will be extended not for one year but for two years, to reach the EUR 9,800, which is the maximum amount that grants Galician board in this type of contract. The fourth and last of the axes in which the measures of these two plans are reversed is what it refers directly to the promotion of entrepreneurship, self-employment and cooperativeism. The plans include new incentives for self-employment. Participants in the Youth Guarantee Program can benefit from a greatly lost aid of EUR 1,200 for their constitution as self-employed. In other words, children under 25 years of age, like those under 30, who are up as self-employed in the Community of Galicia, will have covered 100 percent of the Social Security membership costs to be discharged during the first year. [[Applause]] With regard to the Activation Programme, it will encourage the discharge of the Special Register of Self-Employers to another programme up to EUR 9,000, which will be distributed to EUR 7,800 that will be received when they are discharged from the RETA and EUR 1,200 of grant for activities that may require the autonomous advisory. And we're also going to strengthen the Coop Youth Programme, which is aimed directly at promoting the social economy to incorporate young people under the age of 25 into a formula that fits well in Galicia, which is the cooperative. Finally, from this government, we are constantly renewing our efforts to improve employment opportunities for the Greeks and the Greeks, in a very special way with those groups that are experiencing greater difficulties in employment. And we prove it by investing 60 new million euros in the implementation of these two plans, which will be accompanied by fifteen measures, in total, which will be underway since this first semester and whose potential beneficiaries will be close to 50,000 Welsh and Welsh. And they're all going to be running – I insist – during the first semester of this year. Two of them are already, in fact, published in the Official Journal of Galicia. In addition, these are measures which are consistent within social dialogue and which therefore count on the achievements and the good views of the trade union and business representatives of our community. We will continue to move on in this line, betting on active employment policies, strengthening those that demonstrate greater effectiveness and designing new measures that fit the needs of all groups. We're going to remain committed to improving the employability of our workers because we want them to be fully prepared to take advantage of all the opportunities offered by the labour market. And we are going to continue our efforts, as we have seen so far, to maximize unemployment figures and consolidate the creation of net employment. And these two plans that I present to you today, we believe that I am a good example of this and, above all, of the commitment of the Government of Galicia. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u69	Thank you, Counselor. Round of parliamentary groups. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u70	Thank you, President. We can start this show by singing the "we're gonna tell lies, it'll betray." Because here we lie to the ultimate lie, to see how far we can fool the Greeks and the Greeks. For one thing, it can't be said that these are programs agreed between social agents and the Council. It's not true, there's a union of the most representative of our country, the IGC, who hasn't been summoned to that negotiation. It's very funny to you because, of course, it's already made you very grateful to the ILP that they presented here with measures to generate jobs. Because you're the only thing that happens to you is to share grants and money between friends, and what they're less concerned about is really job creation. It's their propaganda that's been imposing for years, and of course we have the result of the great unemployment we have in our country, the immigration and the depopulation of our country. That's your policy, and you're lying when you say it's a deal with social agents. Mind. The ILP which was presented with 31,000 signatures, which was defended by the Secretary-General of the IGC in June in this Parliament, has fully supported all groups of the House, all except the PP. The People's Party, through its spokesman, Pedro Arias, announced that it would not support ILP because there was no previous diagnosis, and that, by not analysing the historical causes of the current economic crisis, no exits could be found. I did not, in fact, look at these programmes in depth at the beginning of the crisis and why we are in this situation. However, that analysis can be summed up very briefly: this situation comes to pass because the Government of the People's Party, during almost all democracy in our country, ended up with employment in Galicia and ended with the future of the Greeks and the Greeks. That's your responsibility. In the ILP presented by the IGC, there were concrete proposals for job creation in areas such as industrial, financial and fiscal policy, R & D, infrastructure, measures in the field of work or public services, focusing on the need to increase public investment, to create public capital companies in strategic sectors, to give special support to the primary sector, to make a truly progressive fiscal policy, in which income from capital is quoted as labour, to pursue huge tax fraud, the creation of a German public bank that supports our productive fabric, or real labour-sharing policies that guarantee decent wages. Of course, you voted against because none of these measures interest you. We've just been presented here with two precarious labour market programs, ridiculous wages of hunger, workers who are going to be poor working. And that's your job creation policy. It is difficult to understand that the PP stubbornly rejects any proposal or measure to reactivate employment or even to clarify in which economic sectors and under which production model we want to walk towards the future. She emphasizes the PP in her policy of distribution of grants to recruitment and entrepreneurship, although she's more than proven to fail to perform her role and not serve to generate jobs, and less quality employment. Over 2,800 million from structural funds will be dedicated to the plan; and in the period 2014-2015, a total of 1,887. What happened to you, Counselor, no 2014. We're already in 2015 and they come with a plan that was for 2014, it seems to be a little slow. A plan that fosters contracts in training and learning, which broadens the benefits to recruitment, including eventual recruitment and part-time; hence, subsidies to precariousness. The system is centralized, which will depend on the Ministry, which will manage the State File of Youth Guarantees – "Youth Poverty Guarantees", should be called – compulsory registration for the beneficiary. It constitutes a genuine invasion of competences in the area of active employment policies, which establishes the establishment of a delegated State-wide monitoring and evaluation commission in which the participation of more representative business and trade unions is not envisaged. It's alarming the cynicism of the royal decree when it speaks of incentives to indefinite recruitment, since it's actually a minimum recruitment of six months. Maybe it's a contract to cover vacations, maybe even to the administration itself, you're interested in getting more precarious recruitment arrangements, because in the end it's the one that also uses the administration itself. In 2013 22.7 % of the employees in Greece had a temporary contract, 22.7 % in 2013 and 23.4 % in 2014. That's the result of your policy. But the problem is not only to increase temporary work, but 36% of these temporary contracts have a duration of less than six months. During 2014, each person with a temporary contract signed an average of 4.1 contracts, which demonstrates the high rotation and precarious employment that is being created with their bonuses. In addition to grants to training and learning contracts, it will now also be enhanced the compulsory training they had to give to companies that hired girls and boys, boys and girls, in training. Was it not exactly the grant to the training contract for training? Now they're also subsidizing their training? Of course, it's an indecency to distribute money that you make among your friends, which is not to create jobs but to create more precariousness and more emigration. The contract in practice – that wonderful contract in practice – will also see its bonus increased to 100 percent. Further promotion of temporary precarious recruitment. Leaves youth and the unemployed in the hands of the ETTs and placement agencies. In the Spanish state, the staff of public employment services for every 1,000 unemployed people are the lowest in Europe, half that in Portugal and ten times less than in the United Kingdom. This 2014-2020 plan is supported in the grant to companies and in a dual training lacking recruitment commitments by the recipient companies, which in most cases are large companies, since this type of aid is not useful for the small and medium-sized enterprises, which are most of the companies in our country. Governments, both the state and the Galician, are betting on the precariousness of youth and cheap labour to give impetus to economic recovery, without contemplating any measure for the older 45 years, which, in addition, mostly, are in long-term unemployment with social assistance and without any hope of future recruitment. And now they come to us with a €427 help to people who have family responsibilities, who have been unemployed for more than two years, who have lost their homes, who are in a desperate situation. And you're telling them they're going to make snacks, they're going to give them 400 euros. But are they taking the hair? Really, they're taking our hair. Because this isn't worth election propaganda, it's an insult to the intelligence of the Greeks and the Greeks, it's an insult to the working class in Galicia. It continues to increase long-term unemployment. In 2014, 9.7% of people who have been unemployed for over two years have increased to 9.7%. In contrast, since 2010 benefit beneficiaries have decreased. In 2014, only 52.4% of the unemployed were covered, while in 2010 they reached 66%. We are talking in particular about the special employment activation programme in Galicia. We can point out that in addition to promoting these measures of the real decree, a youth skills activation programme will be launched applied to micro-enterprise, when our country needs to get out of business mini-fundism and when it is shown that these initiatives in its majority do not go beyond the six months of life. The data deny the effectiveness of these measures to promote employment or self-employment. In 2014 there were 13,000 autonomouss less than in 2013. It is time to change employment policies and set the conditions that facilitate the implementation of high value added companies that promote investment in R & D+i and not precarious recruitment. I leave the rest for the second part of the intervention, but the People's Party should feel real shame because of the lack of respect that is supposed to present this to the Greeks and the Greeks, for presenting this to the working class. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u71	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. For the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u72	Good morning. Counsellor, Mrs Mato, look at the policies that you, as an executive – because you are the executive – have been applying in the State Government and here in the Government of the Union, of course, are incompatible with any serious social dialogue, are incompatible, Counsellor. You came here today with the botafumeiro and throwing some blessed water, with the blessing of I don't know what social agents, and not all the social agents in this country -- it's good to clarify it -- to try to cover up that message that you're trying to consolidate that you're on the path of recovery, that this is already beginning to bloom and that, with everyone's effort, we're going to get out of this. As if the situation we are in wasn't the result of their policies, as if the situation in which thousands of Greeks and Greeks are in was a biblical curse that fell one day from heaven, as if the situation of the thousands of unemployed in Galicia was something that had to happen. But no, the situation is a result of the policies that, in this social dialogue with which you come here in an exercise of propaganda, of course, do not question or rectify. And in the BNG we have already presented here in this Parliament initiatives by active and passive to create jobs, initiatives based on the development of our country's potentials, initiatives based on Galicia's potentials, wagering by the productive sectors and real job creation. Not initiatives based on creating a slave labour market and giving money to the employer. And, look, your policy of adjustments and cuts, in which you have given priority to reducing the deficit and paying the debt, is incompatible with any kind of social dialogue while not rectified, in which you completely renounce the use of the immense fiscal pressure margin. The Spanish State continues to have a fiscal pressure margin far below the European average, but you have no intention of modifying it, because you are taking power to keep those above to benefit at the expense of those below. The social dialogue agreements of those who come to be offended here today are a real fraud, Mrs. Mato. A social dialogue that seeks a captive unionism of power, in which you feel very comfortable, Mrs Mato; a social dialogue that seeks a model of labour relations that coincides with what the employer defends and does not question why you are in this situation, as I said earlier, which deepens in the destruction of collective bargaining Is social dialogue possible with the labour and social rights torn? At the BNG we don't think so. Is it possible to social dialogue with a labour market in which the Greeks and the Greeks entering that labour market do so under poor working conditions? At the BNG we don't think so. Is it possible to have a social dialogue with a brutal increase in social inequalities and poverty? At the BNG we don't think so. Look, the INE – the INE, the institute of that officer, are not data from the BNG – in the last report determines that the lowest wages have fallen even further, while the highest ones have risen by 24%, as a result of these policies, and does it contain something of that social dialogue, in those two measures, in those two projects that you have come here today, Mrs Mato, to modify this? Of course, I don't think so. One in four new workers earns nearly half the minimum wage. I mean, people who are entering the labour market do it in conditions that are tremendously more precarious than those that are in the labour market. A worker hired in 2013 paid a little more than 900 euros. In 2014, it dropped 39 percent of what it takes, and so on. The INE itself states that the figures of the new contracts are much lower than those that have been working for a long time. He confirms that people who replace others who have already lost a job pay a lot less. The difference is going to multiply; that is, the difference is going to multiply between those who have been in the labour market with a contract for ten years and those who are now entering. How many thousands of people are currently paying salaries far below the minimum inter-professional salary, Counsellor, even half of the minimum inter-professional salary? You come here to assume that in 2014 there are fewer unemployed than in 2013 in Galicia. What he doesn't say is what kind of job they have. What you don't have is the courage to say it's day and hour jobs, and that a person who works an hour in a month doesn't count anymore. You don't have the courage to say what kind of job is being created in this country. That courage doesn't have it on you, to come here and tell those people that, working, they're still poor and they're still in misery, because you're just talking about numbers, forgetting that behind these figures there are names, faces and people who suffer from the drama of their policies, who don't create stable jobs or in condition, or jobs that allow people to have a decent life. No, they create a precarious job where more and more people work not to get out of poverty. The sacrifices of the wage crisis suffer those who earn less. From this crisis, what they've achieved is that those who already paid the most continue to charge more, and those who earned less even cover less. That's the reality of the labour market in our country, Mrs Mato. Is it possible to have a social dialogue in a context in which, since the Government of the Right to Reaction that represents the Government of its Government and the Government of the People's Party in Madrid, they cut public freedoms with reforms such as the Criminal Code or the Citizens' Security Act, which have as their main objective, precisely, that the working class does not rebel against this situation tremendously unfair and tremendously unequal? Do you think it is possible for a social dialogue worthy of such a name in those conditions? At the BNG we don't think so. Is it possible to have a social dialogue with a government and a council in the courts under suspicion of corruption for dedicating the resources that they had to go to these workers and workers to other issues and favor friendly companies and friends of the People's Party? Well, in that context, of course, in the BNG we think it's not possible. And at the BNG we don't endorse those social dialogue agreements, which are also a subject again to Spain, they are a song to Spanishism and centralism. The Spanish state negotiates a series of resources with the European Union, sends them here, tells them how and where they have to use them, and you, submissively, apply them without thinking, without making any sort of proposals that have to do with the reality of our country. As I had told him before, so, bottle-smoker and blessed water. Look, the levels of unemployment that exist today in Galicia in youth and people over the age of 45 are at fault for their economic and labour policies of the People's Party. If young people and young women don't have a job, just like the collective over 45 years of age, it's not because of a problem of lack of training. As an example, we can have thousands of girls and boys who, being hyperformed, have to emigrate every day. Don't come here with milongas, Mrs. Mato. The real reason is they don't have jobs. The real reason is that it's not creating jobs, but rather destroying them. We could talk here about the industrial job destruction data, the job destruction data in the primary sector, we could talk about how much employment has been destroyed in this country, we could talk about that when you reached the Government the employment rate was over one million people, and now it's far below that occupation. Yes, that's the reality. An example: Has the increase in public investment to create jobs increased or decreased? Well, of course, it's decreased. And that 426-euro help for a six-month period, which...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u73	It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u74	...here in Galicia will increase it, of course it's not the solution. The solution would be to guarantee a wage of employment for those people who have been unemployed for a long time. In short, you come here today to present to us a youth guarantee program and a program for support for long-term unemployed people and for over 45 years, which are no longer more slave contracts, more resources for entrepreneurs, and, of course, no way out or guarantee of the future for these people. Because among other things, these contracts, in most cases, have no guarantees. Then they give no right to unemployment or any other kind of benefit. You're playing, Mrs. Mato, an electoralist way, in an election year, with the emergency situation of many Greeks and Greeks. And that, even if you don't believe it, will pass your bill.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u75	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. For the Parliamentary Group of the Gaga de Left Alternative, Mr Fajardo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u76	Good morning to all and to all. The truth is, I wasn't quite clear today where to start with this repeated counsellor's appearance. But I'm going to start with something that I think is very serious. First I'm going to recognize the counselor who has courage, who has redness, who has shame, but, above all, who has boldness. Because you, who haven't come here yet to realize this supposed involvement in the corruption of training courses, come today to talk about a employment plan and employment activation that basically consists of giving money for courses. And it doesn't explain how the Galician Official Journal of Friday envisages a resolution by which the Galician Board will pay to a company called AZNET – I think we know what we're talking about – for two courses – one of 67,000 euros and another of 47,000 euros – a total of 114,000 euros. The one that's falling, with the pockets that, from corrupt companies, get the advisors, you come here today talking about the solution is employability through training. But you're still in the Official Journal of Galicia, delivering money to a supposedly corrupt plot. I should explain that question first. How is it possible that, with everything that has to be resolved from that summary, from Mr. Feijóo's friends, you allow 20 million pesetas to continue to be delivered to a company that is immersed in a plot? You should explain it, unless you continue your visits and sleeping where the Government is. If that's not the case, someone has to explain with light and tachographs how you may not come here to explain that situation and continue to use public money to give it to a company that supposedly has misused public funds from the training of the unemployed and unemployed in this country. Of course, for us it's a problem you have to solve and explain. If you can't explain it, you should go. He should go first, for his involvement in this plot, and, secondly, for his manifest inability to solve the problems of employability in this country. And you're self-congratulating in the speech. That's how it doesn't bother you or change it. In February or March you come here to present a job plan, every year in February or March you come here to present a job plan. The last time you came here to present a job plan you used practically the same entrance you used today. That's what the session logs are for. And how is it possible that you come here to sell us the same goodness that you sold to us last year when the figures show that those kindness is absolutely a lie and that the Government of the People's Party in Galicia, and you personally, are unable to solve the employment problem that we have in this country? And he dismisses the figures and the reality. The figures are what they are, the figures are absolutely obvious. Since you took the Government, 65,000 social security memberships have been lost in this country, since you took the Government in the last year, since September, the unemployed on unemployment lists have continually increased. But besides you, when you make a figure of unemployment, what you don't say is that it's much more the flow of people who emigrate from Galicia than those who leave the unemployment lists. So I'm a job failure for this country. And they should, at least, comply with what they say. Because, of course, it's very difficult to explain to you that you came here a year ago, or earlier, saying that you were going to evaluate the programs and continue without giving the figures and the usage data. I'll explain. In 2014 it announced a program of 100 million for this employment program. And that data you said you were going to evaluate them. Where are they? Where are the 95,000 people you said would benefit from this situation. But in 2012 you announced 44 million and 44,000 new jobs. In 2012, he had the nerve here to say that 44,000 jobs would be created. Where are the 44,000 jobs in 2012? In January 2009 you presented the first comprehensive employment plan in Galicia, which would also evaluate, and put results on the table. What are the results?, 65,000 less members of Social Security? In 2008, they announced 18 million euros for employment to women, and they said that these 18 million euros would mean 40,000 female jobs. Today we have more women on the unemployment list than when you took the Government. So you're what you are, unable to change a wrong employment-promoting policy. Because today's announcement is based on three fundamental issues that we've already denied over and over again. A wrong model cannot continue to extend time because the reality is that it does not solve the problems of this country. But not only that, you were able to take the unemployed from the state's total of EUR 5.5 billion out of your unemployment benefits. That is to say, the biggest social cut in the democratic history of this country is in unemployment benefits: EUR 5,500 million that you withdraw from unemployment benefits. And then we sell a €426 smolice for those unemployed who have to meet absolutely impossible requirements, which means that in Galicia... do you know how many people in Galicia were able to benefit from this €426 aid? 1% of unemployed without any benefit. 1% of unemployed without any benefit were able to accommodate this reality. Do you know what that meant? First, the indecency of a government president who in December said that unemployment had increased because people were aiming to charge this benefit. A government that says that is an indecent government. And that ruler should go. But that announcement also led to the collapse of the unemployment offices, which led to tens of thousands of Greeks not being charged for the collapse of this announcement. A collapse which means that, when a person goes to a job for a day, when he has to resume his unemployment benefit after more than two months of his return to unemployment. So you're condemning a lot of people out of income. And for an aid of EUR 426, the requirements that you ask of them are absolutely indecent. Because, in addition, one of the fundamental requirements is that it cannot be denied an adequate job offer. What's a proper job offer? What is your concept of proper job offer? Is their concept of suitable employment such training jobs with 75% of the minimum inter-professional wage that means that there are well-qualified workers who will work for 400 euros in marathon days? If a worker does not accept an offer of employment for a pirate businessman, who has them in this country, it means that he cannot automatically receive these types of benefits. Why don't you explain that these workers, in order to receive this benefit, can't have more than 476 euros of income in family income and that for that you even account for 3% of the estate except for the usual housing? What does that mean? Which is an impossible benefit to collect for most unemployed in this country, only 1% could collect it. And in this situation that we have more unemployed than you have ever been able to modify the Royal Decree of 20 2012 to prevent many of these unemployed people from having access to a benefit. We have more unemployed than ever, but less spending on unemployment benefits, and those that are poorer. In just two years the average benefit has been reduced to EUR 50. That is the policy of the People's Party on unemployment benefits. So I'd ask him not to come here to sell us motorcycles and tell us they're worried about the job. I'm going to give you a data that's absolutely fundamental. Announces last year EUR 100 million for employment plans. Budget reality, budgetary reality!: the start, improvement and promotion of employability, endowed with 58 million euros, on November 1 had spent only 17 million euros. Where is the commitment to the employability of this country? Where are the real budgetary commitments beyond the big announcements, the grandioseness and the indecency to present here without any credibility each year a employment plan? You no longer have credibility and, unfortunately, in March or February of next year we will come back here to hear a new plan of employment for the Galician Union absolutely ineffective. Yes, we will not listen to the explanations of the President of the Government, of his schemes of diversion of public funds for the formation of unemployed to companies of friends and achievement. Those are the issues that you must clarify. And we told him that it's not time to use public money to drain it to companies instead of those people who need it. Promoting employment is not subsidising businesses the things they had to pay before. The concept of training perfectly explained it to the partner of the Joint Group. How can it be that for children under 30 the only way in which they are given is that training contract – which is now allowed for TETs to also make training contracts – and that 25% of the day that companies were obliged to provide training now we also paid the set of workers? And so we see how in that passed decree on Friday an entire page of public money for training goes, for example, to Citroën. That's the model that you have to encourage employment.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u77	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u78	The wages of the unemployed, more than €5,000 million stolen from the benefits, go directly to the company's pockets. And if they were in the pocket of small and medium-sized enterprises that this country needs so much to generate jobs, we would be talking about something we could even discuss. But the reality is that they go to those big companies that are behind, in many cases, the financing of the People's Party. I therefore urge you to change your employment promotion policy, which has failed since they arrived in the government. There are 65,000 less social security affiliations and they insist on a model that is wrong. Why do you insist, why do you allow them to return to the same companies that are being investigated for corruption? Why do they insist on a model that is clear that it is obsolete and does not generate employment? You haven't given a single explanation here. It's more...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u79	Thank you, thank you, Mr. Fajardo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u80	...if I were to stay at home reading what he said a year ago, we'd be listening to the same...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u81	It's over now, Mr. Fajardo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u82	...because they follow – and I compare it with the previous speech. It was clicked on last year's speech.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u83	For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Quintas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u84	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning. Good morning, Counselor. I really don't know very well whether this is happening – with all due respect, of course – or whether it's really checking what we already know, that we're in pre-election time. I say this, Counselor, because you really, the government – not just you – with Mr. Feijóo on the front, every time there are pre-election times come to sell here a number of things, and, given the interest they generate, they could save the effort and make a press round, which is more or less what they're working on about employment and employability in this country. Look, Counsellor, the data are irrefutable: unemployment rises, social security affiliation declines, youth emigrates more and more – and the most qualified ones, and they don't even get up in unemployment offices. We desert this country, we are the community with the lowest population rate. And they use the employment funds, Counsellor, to illegally fund the headquarters of the People's Party, to illegally finance the People's Party. And as well as the fellow Member who preceded me said, it is indeed honorable that you come to look at what is raining here; and the shame of seeing people who have to leave the country, see people who have no resources – you yourself defend how Risga increases and that means that you in six years have caused poverty to increase – and see how employment funds – that do not increase, and let's review it, that they diminish year after year – are used to fund the friends of the People's Party, the special friends of Mr. President and some friend of his from the Crown. So you really lose, because we could come up with an ideological debate, but you really come to give a press conference to this gallery of Parliament. You've probably already posted the news before. And, well, what we're in front of a pre-election period. There is a qualification to assess, Counsellor, the recent agreement of this plan, and it is insufficiency. Inadequacy with regard to measures envisaged and with regard to the agreements reached. I remember in recent times you came here to announce various plans. The Galician Union really does make enough propaganda of all the plans that come to present from time to time, even from its appearances to your own request, both of you, counsellors, and other advisers. Propaganda is important, but then, over time, you, who manage this country, don't come to realize those agreements that announced the bomb and the plate. You do not agree to appear in front of the opposition, in front of the House and in front of the Greeks and the Greeks and make an assessment and make a balance of those agreements to which they arrived. They therefore do not accept public accounts. Look, this parliamentary group, Counsellor, has requested more than 200 appearances, without any acceptance. And that's how the People's Party understands Parliament, what you want to announce, that's how you understand democracy and participation. In times of so many difficulties, it is really insulting for people who have to leave the country, for the unemployed and for people at risk of poverty to see how propaganda is announced that it will not be translated into economic improvements or employability. Because, rather than trying to solve the problems, you're trying to transmit an unreal image, a sweetened image prior to a few choices. But, Counsellor, as you know very well, the figures are unquestionable. You can come here and name the INE or the EPA data and use only the part you are interested in, the number of people who can access certain tips or other data series. But the numbers are unquestionable. The Greek governments presided over by Mr. Feijóo, as I said earlier, have been making an improvement speech for more than six years, but it is a speech that is not translated into results. Just look at the macroeconomic forecasts made by you every time there are budgets, with annual budgets, with a theoretical drop in unemployment rate. But then the official data, their own data, contradicted their predictions. If we take stock of what the Galician Union has done in the last six years, according to the EPA data, there are 101,100 more unemployed people than when you, Mrs. Mato, and the People's Party have entered your post. An increase in Galicia's unemployment rate of 62% – and they are official data – facing even 36% of Spain's increase. What Galicia places in this period, Counselor, and what places it to you, as the second advisor she has achieved that she has increased unemployment in her management. The data for the current legislation, since the third quarter of 2012, indicate a single decrease of 200 people. And that's the real data. In the same period, Galicia was the third autonomous community where unemployment decreased less. The employment or employment rate is in Galicia at 42%, six points less than in 2009. I see, Counselor, you're not interested. I suppose because you know him and he's got him in front of you, no matter how much data he needs. The rate of activity, assets and population, is set in Galicia at 53.5%, the second lowest in the autonomous communities of the Spanish average. If we refer to the occupied population, there are 168,100 people employed less since 2009. In the industrial sector there has been a loss of busy population, Counsellor, a decrease of more than 55,000 people since 2009. But together with that data, we can talk about membership of Social Security. You gave us a data that we'd like you to explain where you got it from, the source, the official number and everything, that you left us here. Because, of course, it doesn't correspond to anyone's data. 121,139 memberships have disappeared since 2009. This, coupled with the unemployment data I just told you, is a decrease of 31,743 affiliates. Besides, wages, Welsh wages, are about 12% below the state average, i.e., one of the lowest accounts in any autonomous community in the state territory. If we're talking about the workday, we're working on something else, Counselor, to charge a lot less than the rest of the state. And this is really the data that reflects our working reality. But, in fact, our work reality is known to us all and we know it by the government, which sometimes closes the doors so we don't see it. And, I tell you, sometimes it's a shame to come to this Parliament to expose a number of plans that are already put on propaganda, which has already been invested in propaganda. And, well, they could save themselves with a press release and not cause trouble by reading a series of data that will not be translated into anything and that is simply done in pre-election times. That's the reality of our country. So we understand that this is an unjustified optimism, but not only unjustifiable, we understand that it is an indecent optimism. When our young people finish their career, they're qualified, and they have to go out and perform jobs that aren't always consistent with their qualifications, it's terrible. When you pretend to increase your board's budget, you'd have to tell the truth, increase your risk. Because their policies over these six years lead to the impoverishment of the population, to the risk of poverty. So we're giving up, we're not generating active employment policies for this country to have a chance, for it to generate a job opportunity. We know that we are in difficult and difficult times, but it is impossible that, over six years, the President of the Galician Union, every Wednesday he has intervention, and you, Counselor, every time he comes up with his own request...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u85	Please...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u86	...in a pre-electoral era, they come to tell us things that are not a reality. It's an insult to people who are having it wrong. But it is an insult to the competence of Members and Members who are here and who have access to official information.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u87	Thank you, Mrs. Quintas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u88	Thank you, Mr. President. And for now, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u89	Thank you, Mrs. Quintas. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr. Tellado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u90	Thank you, Mr. President. Counsellor, ladies and gentlemen. Good day to all. The truth is that the opposition parties in Galicia now not only oppose the Government of Galicia, they not only oppose the Unity of Galicia, but also oppose the social agents of our country. What an innovative and more constructive contribution they make from the Socialist Party, from the Galician Nationalist Block and from the Alternative Left Galician and the Mixed Group to Greek politics! The opposition is opposed to the UXT, the Workers' Committees and the Confederation of Galician Entrepreneurs, which signed an agreement last January 14 with the Government of Galicia and the President of the Galician Council to launch two new agreements of the social dialogue to encourage two specific programmes which today came to this Parliament to present the Labour and Welfare Councillor. You're against everything and you're against everyone. That's what they come to prove every day and perhaps that's why, precisely for that, you're increasingly alone and increasingly divided. You don't care about the unemployed in Galicia at all, because if it were, you'd be happy to know that in the last year there are 19,000 less unemployed people in Galicia. Mrs. Quintas, by the way, was reading the wrong data, she was reading the data when Mr. Touriño was ruling here. Now reigns Mr. Feijóo since 2009. You would have to celebrate that reduction in unemployment in the last year because it's good news for Galicia and because, in addition, when you voted they ruled – which they ruled until recently – unemployment in Galicia grew by 51,000 people in the last year. That's what happened when you ruled, when you spent scandal numbers on redesigning the board room, for example, on buying chairs at prohibitive prices, redecorating offices and enjoying Asian luxury on official trips to every train without any use for Galicia and the Greeks. That's what you did when unemployment grew in Galicia at 51,000 unemployed per year. You're right, it's not only the guilt of the Socialist Party, it's also the fault of the Galician Nationalist Block, because they were ruling together. And that's why I was right about Mrs. Prado. That biblical curse indeed was the two-party government, you're absolutely right. You denied reality at that time and continue to deny reality today, as they did when they were ruling and things were going from bad to worse. Now they deny recovery, they deny the crisis, and now they refuse the recovery. Right now that we can say that in Galicia there are 3,600 younger unemployed people a year ago, 21% less than a year ago, you deny recovery, just now that the EREs are reduced by 40%. That's what Mrs. Quintas says. You deny the recovery right now that we are the fifth autonomous community in which the unemployment rate has gone down the last year, Mrs. Quintas, on the fifth! That data was from when I ruled Tourin and you approved everything Mr. Tourin brought here. You deny recovery right now that in Galicia we've registered nearly 12,000 more members of Social Security in the past year. That's the reality. You deny recovery. Do you know why? Just because you deny Galicia. You deny Galicia, because what you are trying to deny today is not a achievement of the Greek Government, it is an achievement of the whole of the Galician society, of the workers of this country, of the entrepreneurs of this country, of the society as a whole. You deny a recovery that is not a achievement of the Galician Union, it is a achievement of society as a whole. You, gentlemen, refuse Galicia because you refuse to acknowledge that things are going best and that we are walking in the right direction. Of course, the number of unemployed is still unacceptable, very high, of course, yes, but of course we can say is that we are working in a coordinated manner with the Government of Spain, coordinated with the European Union, and with the hands of the unions, to whom you come here today to oppose them. You are set up in an interested catastrophe, in an interested catastrophe. We're not optimistic, we're realistic. And so today what we're saying is that things are better than a year ago and they're much better than when you were in Galicia. And that's why Galicia is the autonomous community in which social dialogue is most fruitful, as much as it bothers you: 29 agreements in last legislation and 2 agreements in last month. And that bothers them because these agreements break the image that you want to convey to this government and to the reality of today's Galicia. Look, this is a sensitive government with people who are experiencing it wrong, this is a government committed to people, a government that cares about and cares about the Greeks, of which you were unemployed when they were ruling in Spain and when they were ruling in Galicia. And that's why it bothers you so tremendously that the Labour and Welfare Councillor comes to this Parliament to present these two agreements which, I say, are not the fruit of the Government of Galicia, are the fruit of social dialogue, agreed with Workers' Commissions, UXT and the Confederation of Employers. You have to explain why they bother them so much about these agreements and why they bother them so much about progress in social dialogue. Of course, from the People's Group, we want to put into force the efforts of the German Government, we want to value the efforts of the social agents, to arrive at agreements that improve the quality of life and to improve the employability of the unemployed in Galicia. Agreements that have four fundamental collectives to which they are directed: long-term unemployed, young people and girls under 25 years of age, people at risk of social exclusion and people with some kind of disability. In total, two programmes and sixteen measures will benefit 50,000 people with a budget allocation of EUR 60 million. We, of course, are not going to devote part of our intervention to talking about the programs because they have already been duly explained by the Labour Adviser, but we regret that you did not take advantage of your intervention to make a new proposal to these social dialogue agreements. You criticize everything; that's yes, proposals zero, zero, that's the great reality. In any case, we do not fully understand the criticisms of the Socialist Party. Because you were the intellectual parents and material authors of this economic crisis, which affects Spain as a whole. Yes, Your Honor, intellectual parents and material authors of this crisis, Mrs. Quintas, by action and also by default. When they denied the crisis, they said nothing happened here. That wasn't about the Socialist Party. This crisis is yours, Mrs. Quintas, of the Socialist Party, although they now try to look elsewhere and remember nothing of what happened in Spain until very little. We don't understand your criticism because your party was the number one public enemy of employment in Spain. You've ruled and left behind 3,200,000 people, your party, Mr. Zapatero's government, of what they often assume here. In Vigo too, in Vigo too. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] So we don't understand your criticism, because you were the biggest job-killer in this country. With regard to the intervention of the Alternative Gaga de Left, I mean that we, in truth, are already accustomed to the fact that since its formation it has failed in respect of the People's Party, the Government of the Union and the thousands of people who vote for us. It's a shame you're also missing out on the trade unions signing these agreements now. Regarding the intervention of the Galego Nationalist Block, Mrs. Prado, the truth is that unemployment grew by 51,000 people when you ruled. And you were managing the Industry Council. So when you talk about supporting the productive sectors, I have to ask you: and then what did you do when you ruled in Galicia? I guess nothing, because in the last year 51,000 people have been unemployed. You speak, from the Galego Nationalist Block, of favoring friendly companies, of the Galego Nationalist Block! Of course, we're still going to have to talk about Carrumeiro at this point. Don't talk about business friends, please. Regarding AGE's intervention, of course, the truth is that it did well to recognize the courage and courage of the work and well-being advisor. Because if you've done something over the last few years, it's fighting unemployment generated by previous governments. And in that sense we want to recognize him for his courage and his work. Do you know what makes us different? That we spend every day working against unemployment and you spend all day defaming those who work in the fight against unemployment. We're not going in there, of course. Of course, Mrs. Quintas was talking about active employment policy models. What I have to tell you is that our models are these, the ones that today introduced the Work Councillor and Wellness in his presence. I understand you don't share them, because your models are the ones that apply you to Andalusia. And you think active employment policies are the EREs of Andalusia where 1.2 billion euros have been defrauded. You believe that active employment policies are the training courses in which 2,000 million euros have been cheated in Andalusia. And you talk about friends. Those friends you referred to are friends of Mr. Ricardo Varela and in the summary...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u91	Quiet, please! Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u92	...then it's collected, because they missed him.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u93	Mrs. Quintas, you're in the debate. Quiet. You'll have your turn later.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u94	I have already finished, spending the last few seconds, with the permission of Mrs Quintas, the Government and congratulating the social agents of our country, the Workers' Commissions and UXT, on reaching agreements on these plans that we consider important for long-term unemployed, important for the unemployed, young people under 25 years of age, programmes of which 50,000 people will benefit with an investment of 60 million euros. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u95	Thank you, Mr. Tellado. Replica from the Work Councillor and Wellness.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u96	Very good day again. I'll start with Mrs Martínez's intervention, to tell you that I'm not lying, Mrs Martínez, when I talk about our agreement with social agents that is ratified by the UXT, the Workers' Commissions and the Employers' Confederation. And you say I lie because I wasn't in the CIG. Look, if the IGC isn't there, it's because you don't want it. Because the first thing I did in the first week I took possession in 2009 was to talk to the three most representative unions in our community and invite them to talk. And what he told me not – literary – was the IGC. Obviously I'm not going to chase whoever doesn't want to talk to me. So there are those who have to be. Of course, your economic model, Mrs Martínez, which you have defined through an ILP that has been presented here in this Parliament, is clear that the Greeks must not fit very well. The evidence is in the representation of seats you have in Parliament. But besides, I'm not surprised that I don't fit them very well, I'm not surprised at anything, because that's the economic model they're developing in Andalusia, where, in addition to having an unemployment rate above 30% – which is indeed a lack of respect – they have the nerve not to run 75% of the funds destined for active employment policies that the State transfers to Andalusia. It's raining in Havana! Mr Fajardo spoke of the execution of the Galician budget in active employment policies. 98%, Mr. Fajardo, was executed in 2014. 75% of active employment policy funds in Andalusia had to be returned to the state because they were unable to execute them. Mrs Prado – who, of course, also seems to conceal the possibility that in the Government of Galicia we have fluid dialogue and collaboration with social agents – spoke not only of it being incompatible, but also of giving money to the employer. Then he no longer criticized the dialogue in general, but spoke – literary – of "giving money to the employer." I didn't say to give money to the unions. Well, I suppose, therefore, I'll be able to transfer the congratulations to the central government of Mariano Rajoy now that he has just presented his new training model, in which he obviously counts with the social agents for his design but not for his execution. And, Mr Fajardo, I came to this Parliament in December to take account of subsidies and control of training grants. You may have been expelled, and you may not have found out. But, man, he's got companions. [[Murmurs.]] I suppose some fellow could tell you that I was in this Parliament coming in, even though it was only for companionship. And then, another thing: study and prepare a little better subjects. At least I, when I was a Member, prepared them quite well. Because to speak of a 100 million euro plan that you don't know, when in my speech I repeated what the Youth Employment Plan is and which was developing from 2014 to 2015, obviously shows a little bit of ignorance on your part. [[Murmurs.]] As well as two statements he made in his intervention. It's not 1% of them who were able to accommodate the Mariano Rajoy Central Government reactivation plan. It's not, because it's not over. So there's still the possibility that about 20,000 people are asking for that reactivation plan. And on the other hand, the most important thing is that since the Government of Galicia, we want to continue to work and put all our efforts – and of course, we will do it, whenever they want, by the hand and by the collaboration of the partners – to put on the table tools and policies that change the situation we find upon our arrival. Because it has to be remembered: when we arrived in 2009, unemployment was increasing at an annual rate of 51,000 unemployed, and today, in 2014, there are 19,000 unemployed less unemployed. And this is the community among the most unemployed in the last year. In fact, in particular, speaking of children under 25, Galicia – and so said the National Institute of Statistics – is the community where it has lowered unemployment in the group of children under 25 years of age in Spain. And we will continue to pursue our policies linked to inclusion and employment. Because, of course, the most important thing for us is to help those who need it most, and, within the unemployed, those who are worst going through it, and not only through the development of the new Social Integration Income Act, but also through the implementation of this order of aid to recruit people who would benefit from social integration income, which by 2014 had a budget of 5 million euros that allowed 600 people to have a job opportunity. Obviously this year we redouble our efforts by doubling the budget to be 10 million euros that will allow more than 1,000 people to benefit from the income in 2015 to have a job opportunity. And we bet on training precisely because we're accompanied by the figures I've been commenting on before. And it's because 60% of the unemployed in our autonomous community have very low education. This obviously means that we have to make training policies, not only by increasing the budget by 4.5% more budget to which about 25,000 unemployed people are formed in our community, but by doing so with quality training. Evidently always trying to respond to the real needs of the labour market, but always talking about not doing medicine and obtaining a certificate of professionalism that has a recognition at the state level. In the training certification, when we arrived in 2009, only 45% of the beneficiaries of these training courses had a professional certificate. From then on, in 2012 we reached 65% of the beneficiaries of these training courses, who were already receiving the certificate that Galicia places at the head of the autonomous communities in the bet on certification. Until now there are already 100% people who participate in these training courses with a certificate. And we take stock of that Youth Employment Plan that we put in place, Mr. Fajardo, in 2014, which has been running since 2014 and is also now in 2015, which has 19 measures and 100 million euros of budget. And, of course, we have to make a positive balance since the year 2014 when unemployment is reduced in the collective of children under the age of 25, fifteen points more than unemployment is reduced in the collective in general. So we have to contribute and work on this case with the youth guarantee program, which includes nine more measures for children under 25. And of course these nearly 11,000 unemployed people in our community will have the opportunity to participate in these nine measures. But it is true that they need to be proactive and focus specifically on the participation of this program. What we want to achieve with this plan is that all these boys have an opportunity, either to receive a job offer or to receive a job training or to receive a period of practice. It's EUR 49 million that we're looking at as much for this new youth guarantee plan as possible. That is, out of the 100 million euros that we started in 2014, we're now going to spend 150 million euros for the next few years for children under 25 and also for those under 30. And, on the other hand, is the employment activation programme in Galicia, which I also presented in this House, for long-term unemployed people, which comes to place our community as the first autonomous community that makes a complementary, budgeted to the state plan. We are fully aware that one of the consequences of this crisis, which has lasted too long, too long in time – it is redundant – are people who have been unemployed for more than a year, and above all those who have family burdens. And that's why six of the measures we agreed on in the social dialogue for those people who fit in this plan, which the state receives EUR 426 per month. We're going to spend 10 million euros on this. In our community they can be beneficiaries of this activation plan about 20,000 Welsh and Welsh. Among other advantages, this plan offers is the possibility of compatibility this income of 426 euros a month with a job. And what the Government of Galicia does, by its own decision and agreed with the social agents, is to extend these 426 euros a month to the duration of the contract, if that contract reaches one year; and if it reaches two years, even increase the aid to 9,800 euros. So today, it presents the Government of Galicia's board of fifteen new measures with 60 million more to 50,000 potential beneficiaries in the community; a program, as it said, linked to young people under the age of 25 and linked also to long-term unemployed, who already have, at present, these fifteen measures, two published already in the Official Journal of Galicia, and four others that will be published before the end of March, and the rest before the end of the semester. I don't want to close my intervention without remembering again, and thanking the effort, the height of sight, the work done and developed and also its proposals, the social agents who are sitting in the social dialogue because they want it, which are Labour Commissions, UGT and the Confederation of Galician Entrepreneurs. They are two important programs, which come to respond to two groups who are obviously suffering the consequences of the crisis most seriously, and I am convinced that they will come out better by relying on the support of social agents. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u97	Thank you. I would ask you to put your phones in the aircraft system, for example, which is the model, since the call inhibitor does not have to work. Yeah, it's not like we're gonna take off, but it's very annoying who's in the use of the word. [[Murmurs.]] So, I beg you, if you can, to put them in that system. Replica roll. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u98	Mr. President, we want you to put your phones like the Government, in plane mode, overshooting all the problems in our country. [[Murmurs.]] The counsellor's intervention, of course, has no waste. He's talking about the low grade of youth. It will be the responsibility of who has ruled in Galicia all these years, and how he has done his policies in education. It's the responsibility of the German Government. Because it's not that the Greek children and children have a tara, and that's why they don't study, that the Greek governments have always prevented access to the education of the popular classes. He's talking about employability in training and precariousness, he's talking about an enterprise that's been failing for too many years. When he talks about emerging sectors, he said R+D+i, the popup sector. R+D+i must be applied to all sectors, it should not be treated as a popup sector. He spoke of social welfare, but he didn't talk about any of the German industrial sector. He says the EREs are down. There are no companies left to close! There are no companies left to do ERE. That's the big problem, so they go down, that's not a triumph, that's just the demonstration of failure. It speaks of Commissions and UXT, and it will be Commissions and UXTs who must bear in mind that all opposition from this Parliament rejects what they have agreed in the social dialogue, the whole opposition. That's what Commissions and UXT have to think about, where this social dialogue takes them and where it led the working class all these years of social dialogue: unemployment, poverty, wages that are not enough to live. They say we don't put forward proposals. I repeat, all of them were rejected by the IGC, and not one of them accepted. That's all you're willing to talk about to solve the problem of unemployment. But, look, we can talk about data and the great successes of your work policies. Since 2007 the population of Galicia has fallen 22,700 people. Only in 2014 were 13,700 inhabitants lost; 2014 closed with 93,200 people, between 16 and 55 years of age, less than in 2007. The largest population increase is in the stratum of people over 65 years old, which increased in 2014 to 8,500 people. The active population group in which the most population is lost is the one between 24 and 39 years, where 25,400 people have been lost; just the plot where women decide to be mothers. But how are you not going to migrate our youth to the future? Since 2009 the only collective of employees who increased in Galicia was that of people with an average gross wage of less than half the minimum interprofessional wage, i.e. less than 325 euros. Employees with less than 0.5 times the minimum inter-professional wage has risen to 11.8% and already represent 18.3% of the employees in Greece; 177,548 employees in Greece must survive on an annual income of less than 1,872 euros, and you consider them to be busy. Someone who earns EUR 1.872 per year should be on the unemployment lists and be considered unemployed. If we consider all these people to be unemployed who earn less than the minimum inter-professional wage, unemployment in Galicia reaches 35% and affects almost 500,000 people. That's their triumphalism, 500,000 people in unemployment. Galicia was one of the three communities in which the occupation came down in 2014, 0.8%, i.e. 8,400 unemployed less. And in addition, it has been translated into the loss of 195,300 jobs since 2007. What are you bragging about here, Counselor? What are you bragging about here? Of these jobs destroyed in 2014, 64% of the total, about 5,400 were the full day. The work is being destroyed on a full-time basis and changed for part-time work. And yet 66% of people who have part-time jobs do it by obligation, because they prefer a full day. It is clear that there is no incidence of classical subsidies to employers to create jobs.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u99	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u100	Just like precaution – it's over – it's over. If they really want to take measures to end unemployment, to create a future for this country, so that youth does not emigrate and we can have a future as a country, what they have to do is to establish and define once and for all what are the lines of action in our strategic sectors with policies that are not simply encouraging precariousness and subsidies to large businesses. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u101	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. For the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u102	If the People's Party's Parliamentary Group believes that problems with botafumes and blessed water are solved, as I said before, there they, of course. Look, Mr. Tellado... Oh, there's Mr. Tellado... Oh, sorry, he's there, just like he used to be there -- sorry -- don't stick to his change, I'm sorry. [[Murmurs.]] Well, Mr. Tellado, I could renew the speech a little bit, change the papers, I don't know if you have them yellow. You could change them a little bit, because, actually, anything we say is that we're installed in the catastrophe... is that the numbers are there. Maybe if you were to go out there and talk to those people who charge 300 euros, to those people who don't reach the end of the month, to those people who have been unemployed for years and have no rights and no benefits, it might seem like a disaster to you. Maybe it seemed like a catastrophe like they did and how it looks like us in the Nationalist Block of Wales. So, with those themes, jokes, minimals. Because it's a catastrophe. Then you try to sweeten it whatever you want, but it's a reality that's suffering from thousands of Greeks and Greeks. Then it would be good if they cut off a little bit. And, look, the BNG is very clear on which side it is. Of course, he is on the side of the Galician working class and against the measures that attack his rights; against his actions, Mrs Mato. If others want to be palm trees, there's your problem. But the BNG is not part of comparisons, palm trees that don't question the background of the problems that cause the situation in which are Germans and Greeks, and then we believe that cosmetic operations can be solved. Of course, we don't think that's the way it is. And, of course, not to match the policies that you're presenting is a cause of tranquillity for the Nationalist Block of Galicia. Of course, no cause for concern, Mr. Tellado. Because the BNG is not dependent on any power, we simply owe ourselves to the Greek people and their interests. And since we only owe ourselves to the Greek people, to their interests and to what is best for them, of course, these advertising sessions are not beneficial to the Greek people. And, look, with regard to training projects, when they're systematically attacking our country's educational system, when they're putting on continuous obstacles to our boys and girls' training, it turns out they're now coming with complementary training measures. Of course, it seems to us that the road doesn't go that way. The public education system of this country cannot be dismantled and then programmed at the end of which the young people of this country will not be better trained. The only thing that's going to be better fat is going to be the employer. I say it loud and clear, Mrs. Mato, the employer, the one you meet, who never meets the workers or the workers. Don't! Because you, in the face of the problems that have a lot of work centers in this country, are, in the best case, profile. He likes to go out on those photos with the employers, but he doesn't go out with the workers. Do you want me to make the connection between the problems we brought here to this Parliament of work centres and the people who lost their jobs that you didn't have the right to meet them once and for all? Not once! That's the reality. If you want, I take your relationship out, starting with your own counseling, who are – as you know – in situations of course not advisable. Look, the inequalities have only increased with the policies that the People's Party set in motion. The rich are richer and the poorer. The gap has only increased. And do you know what the worst inequality is? That of unemployment, that of having no way of working for the end of the month to develop a project of life, that's reality. Proposals. Do you want me to talk to you about proposals? First: elimination of labour reform. We brought her here for active and passive. What did the People's Party vote for, Mr. Tellado? On the contrary. And the situation in which the working class of this country, I said before, has not fallen from the sky, is a result of the labor reforms that you have made. The Socialist Party too, of course, but you too. Then every stick that holds his candle. But you've never been able to vote in favour of derogating them, you weren't who you agreed with. Look, do you want me to leave you a copy of the ILP, actually, that there's not so much IGC presented here with a hundred measures to create jobs in this country and that you didn't have any good, that none of them seemed good? Specific measures. Look, I also leave here 100 measures to create jobs in this country, real issues, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, real issues. Because the situation of the working class in this country is dramatic. You perfume yourself, you throw incense, botafumers or blessed water, but it won't change a dramatic situation with these two programs. When we brought here measures for over 45 years, which you approved to condemn them not to have a decent pension, and other things, they voted against; and when we brought measures for young people and girls also voted against. With which, a little serious.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u103	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. For the Parliamentary Group of the Gaga de Left Alternative, Mr Fajardo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u104	Very good again, Counselor. Look, there are uncomfortable silences, there are complicit silences and there are accusing silences. You know you're going to wait for the last shift, where there's no reply, for the inexplicable explanation of how your advisor's office continues paying money to a company involved in the debalding of public funds in training courses, that plot in which there are friends of the president of the People's Party, your friends, where you are usually named and which, therefore, you have to explain again. You have good memory. The truth is, I didn't remember when I was expelled from this House. You did, you remembered. Well, you'll know why I remembered him. I really didn't remember him, I honestly didn't remember him. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Well, so I don't care to come or not – according to you – I come more than you, much more than you. I'm sorry to say, I'm coming more than you. [[Murmurs.]] More importantly, you're the most trouble-free advisors in your debates. [[Murmurs.]] You're never here. There are other advisers who, when discussing a topic in their area, are present. You never, never. She's more busy putting on the twitter than she's going to visit mayors – almost always from the People's Party – or she's going to take pictures with people, but she's not going to solve any problems. So you should explain in a credible way that approach that I've made to you in the previous intervention. And then, frankly, the People's Party comes here to say that the opposition is bad, but bad noses – not to say another word that, if not, this man from behind throws me away – that we are so bad we deny recovery. Man, please! What is the recovery if a third of the Greeks who work do so at least the minimum wage, if from the new contracts to half the new contracts are less than the minimum wage, when there are 25% people in situations of social exclusion and below the poverty threshold, when in this country people cannot afford the light to warm their homes? What's the recovery? How are we not going to deny that recovery? The only recovery is that of those who have an affinity with the People's Party. What is more profitable in this country?, studying and training and going to training courses or belonging to or being in the field of the Friends of the People's Party? Honestly, be in the realm of the friendship of the People's Party. That's very obvious, that's the face or line directly to the work starship, because, apart from that, you're a real ranch. I'd ask him to let me talk to you. I know that you are very upset and that it is also the Member who in his statement of most immovable property has, and then comes here to oppose that he does not disown anyone. Each one knows his own, you know his own, and each one is responsible for his own things. I'm not going to tell you much more but it really seems tremendously uncomfortable that you brought these things up. And then the realities of data are what they are. What is the People's Party employment program? I insist, 65,000 less members of Social Security since you rule. But let's talk about youth employment. You come here and say we're in a better situation. Since you came to rule in this country again 7,500 jobs have been lost in youth employment for less than 30 years. And that not to mention the more than 30,000 people who leave Galicia every year, not to mention the young people who don't go to work anymore because they stay in the education system because they know there are no jobs outside. So don't come here bragging about a situation that has nothing to do with your policies but quite the opposite. And if they have to do with their policies, it'll be for the good and the bad. Tell me the last number. January: Galicia is destroyed in January 13,000 jobs; the unemployed are increased to 7,000, the fourth community in the entire state where the most unemployed appear. That data will then also be your responsibility, or does it turn out that it is only your responsibility for those data that you can manipulate to sell a different reality? They honestly carry – as I have already expressed – five supposed employment plans that are not quantified. You said you were going to do the evaluation. And I ask you – this bad deputy who I am, that I don't prepare things – what is your evaluation of the employment plans you presented in this House? And when I say evaluation isn't what it's spent on, it's to tell me concrete results, how many people have been trained, how many of those who have been trained are now working, what percentage is working with indefinite contract, what percentage is working with a possible contract. That's the evaluation, the rest is advertising and propaganda, which is what you know how to do very well. I insist, in March next year we will be here again presenting your new employment programme with the same unemployment figures and the same absolutely regrettable situation. But what I really look forward to now is the explanation of the inexplicable, which you leave for the last turn knowing that we can dismantle the explanation. Because it's inexplicable that you continue to give public money to a company that is challenged by public money out of stock. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u105	Thank you, Mr. Fajardo. This man who was behind him has a name, his name is Miguel Santalices. I'm telling him because you, as it seems to be wrong of memory... For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Quintas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u106	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, I'm not going to repeat the actual and verifiable data, another thing is that they don't want to use intentionally, because they're real data. I really, Mr. People's Party, don't know if you're a sensitive government, because with the sensibilities each one understands them as it seems, do you? But you will explain to me, because this government, like the one in Madrid, says that health is not sustainable, and what you are looking for is that most citizens in this country have less health and poor quality, that education is not sustainable, and what you are looking for is that children and children in this country have the worst education. The last thing we hear, it seems, is that university is not sustainable. I don't know what they'll think, either. What's really not sustainable is this government for the Greeks and the Greeks, that's what's not sustainable. Look, Counsellor, apart from the fact that there is an increasing budget for employment policy, apart from the fact that the data are real, apart from that, there is no execution or even budgeting of employment policies. As I told you in the other intervention, obviously increases the risk. This is the result of the policies that you have carried out over six years, which all that generates is immigration and poverty; therefore, we have to increase the risk. Their policies basically generate poverty and exclusion. In employment, you fired at least 212 people who were job guides, who were needed at a time of crisis. What you're going to tell us now is that about 128, that is, little more than half, will come back. They won't be enough. All you tried was to privatize public employment services as well. That's the reality that is drawn in this country, that's a reality where unemployment is increasing, where there are more and more cuts. The State itself, by reducing the coverage of unemployment benefits during 2014 to Galicia, ceased to spend 310 million euros annually. So they don't care about the ads you're making here, because the real data contradicts the policies you're trying to sell and the policies you're inventing. The protection rate, which is the measure between the total number of people stopped in Galicia, does not reach 34% in December 2014. This means it's one in three people. In this scenario of cuts we have, the reality that we have is that the number of households that do not receive any income is about 90,000 households, increasing almost 100% over 2009, 43,600 families more. It's a lot even for a time in crisis. In addition, the budget accounts, as I said, are decreasing. It is not explicable that as unemployment increases, what is invested in employment policies is declining more and more. It's a policy of the Galician Union, a policy of the People's Party, absolutely frightening and entrepreneurial. Between 2009 and 2013, the Government failed to implement an annual amount of EUR 684 million. That is to say, it is no longer budgeted in employment policy and, besides – inconceivable – it is left unimplemented. The discontinuance and abandonment of citizens who are experiencing moments of difficulty is absolute. Therefore, a percentage of over 30% of the funds allocated cannot be executed in the corresponding year. And that's quantifiable. Therefore, the Greek Government has inefficient management of public resources, a bad management for recovery and employability.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u107	Finish, Mrs. Thursdays, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u108	Finished, Madam President. Look, Mr Tellado, you have a repetitive, unreal and lying speech; 34 years of government in the Autonomous Community of Galicia for only 3 or 4 with the bipartite.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u109	Thank you very much, Mrs. Quintas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u110	I'm going to finish, Madam President, because Mr. Tellado allowed the luxury of coming here... and look, I don't know, because he wasn't, if the bipartite changed 2, 3 or 20 chairs, but he saw the sight, like people...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u111	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u112	...disgustingly walks in yachts, puts friends of dubious reputation in your home...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u113	Thank you very much, Mrs. Quintas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u114	...and spend the money of the unemployed on Operation Zeta, we should really have changed the chairs of the whole government. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u115	Thank you. Mr. Tellado, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u116	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs. Quintas, the only person who was fully satisfied with the two-party government was Mr. Gerardo Crespo, and so made Mr. Ricardo Varela know through an e-mail when you lost your election. That's the reality. And I have to remind you, because you're talking about cuts, you're the ones who have frozen pensions in Spain, you've been the ones who've dropped 5%, for the rest of your life, the salaries to all the public officials in our country, you've been the ones who've made the biggest cut in social spending in Spain. That was your party, the Socialist Party. Counsellor, from the People's Parliamentary Group, what we have to do is congratulate the Government of Greece, congratulate the social agents, so that they continue to move in the same direction, seeking positive agreements for Galicia and positive agreements for the unemployed in our country. We, of course, want to highlight the great responsibility of the social agents involved in this agreement, which will benefit 50,000 people thanks to an investment of 60 million euros and through 15 programmes for long-term unemployed people and young people under 25 years of age unemployed. We, Mr. Fajardo, thank you for these classes of political ethics that come from the Alternative Galga de Left, a group very close to Mr. Monedero and the Podemos group, I suppose they come from this Autonomous University of Monedero, where there are winners, as well as we could all know. [[Murmurs.]] I don't know if the Counsellor will explain that to you what you didn't understand when you read the DOG. In any case, I'm telling you, because I had the opportunity to go out and check what's published in the Official Journal of Galicia that you saw last week and it seems you didn't understand well enough. What is published is a grant order for 2013. By the way, subsidies, AZNet's, those companies, they never got paid. You read this partially, you don't read everything, because, of course, you don't read every time in the DOG the reintegrations of this kind of grant. So you make an interesting reading. Therefore, the Galician Union with this subject, as with all, total transparency. Mr. Fajardo, when he comes here, tell the whole thing, don't try to generate doubts or confusion over all those issues. Mrs. Prado, we're not the problem of the Galician Nationalist Block. It's not us. That biblical curse of the bipartite I am glad that you recognize it, because it is true, it is true, because you have the responsibilities of government that now deny and deny it. And you are also responsible for what happened during the 2005-2009 period. You mismanaged, by the way, the Industry Council. You were talking about jobs in education, you were talking about jobs in education. But if we're the autonomous community where university fees are cheaper all over Spain. But what are you doing? It would be the obstacles you faced with the problems of the Greek language that everyone wanted to impose on us. You were talking about the IGC measures that were not approved here. Look, where these IGC measures had to be discussed were at the social dialogue tables where the IGC was not because it didn't want to, or maybe because the Nationalist Block in Wales didn't leave it. So don't come to us with those problems. The reality, Mrs. Quintas – she's gone, you see she's not interested in the data, you can see the recording later – is that unemployment dropped in the last year in Spain, membership in Social Security went up the last year in Spain and Galicia, youth unemployment dropped in the last year in Spain and Galicia, ERE's number dropped in Spain and Galicia in the last year. When they ruled you were all the opposite. Today we can say that in Galicia and Spain we're better than a year ago, and what we want is to be able to be here next year and say that we're better than today. That's our commitment and that's our challenge. We, of course, are not buyers, as was said here from some group, we are not buyers with the current unemployment situation, of course we are not. We are sensitive to the situation of people and families who live and suffer directly from the problem of unemployment. The only difference between us is that you denied the crisis and we recognized it and acted from the very first moment. I'm done simply by celebrating by the People's Parliamentary Group that agreement between the Government of Galicia, between the Council of Galicia and the social agents. We've concluded these agreements and also the many that were initialled in the past legislation. We, yes, want to urge the German Government and the social agents – those who today's opposition has failed to do so – to the Labour Commissions, the UGT and the Confederation of Galician Entrepreneurs, who continue to work in the same direction. They have a shared roadmap to get Galicia out of the crisis situation where we don't put it. They continue in that direction, and, of course, counsellor, you know that with this opposition you cannot count for anything. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u117	Thank you, Mr. Tellado. The counselor has the floor to close the debate.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u118	Good afternoon again. I would like to begin this last round of intervention by addressing Mrs Prado directly to ensure her express recognition and the deep respect that I, as advisor, and the entire Government of Galician Union have to the most representative trade union formations of our community and, even so, also to businessmen for their work in defending the interests and rights of workers, that they themselves defend the working class, in this working German case. Here, in our community, no one is a palm tree. Perhaps you, Mrs. Prado, were confused with you, your formation, when they were palm trees of the Socialist Party, when they approved the budget of the State of the Government of Zapatero year after year. I suppose you'll be confused with that and believe that everyone is of the same condition, but of course, the social agents of our community don't. With regard to the intervention of the formation of AGE, that there are complicit silences, there are accusing silences, there are uncomfortable silences, you forget that there is another silence, that there is no greater contempt than not to make appreciation. And, of course, that is a single and exclusive consequence of him who asks the Government and does not prepare the interventions. I'll tell you again that I'm sure you're a great deputy, but you can and you have the opportunity every time you talk about it. At least to know not only what is supposed to be demanded by the Greeks, but also what is the procedure of the Government. And at least you – since you should have an interest in ruling someday – should know that it is an obligation to publish grants in the Official Journal of Galicia, it is an obligation. All grants are published. As the member of the People's Group said, you speak with interest – I suppose – to devert or to hinder – a subsidy that was published in 2013, and that never has ever come to see that company that you have a lot of interest in talking about. Mr. Fajardo, to me, as an advisor, what concerns me is the situation of thousands of Greeks living today on the unemployment list. And what this counselor does and this government is to come here not to give press rounds, but to tell Parliament about it, because Mrs. Quintas said when she spoke in her speech that she could avoid this appearance. When I come because I come and when I don't come because I don't come. Of course, what we have to do here as a government is tell Parliament about all our policies, and also realize that all the assumptions of active employment policies were, Mrs. Quintas, executed at 95%, at more than 95%, in 2014; another thing that, of course, will also be published and will, of course, know the Members. And he was talking about building in a positive way, working together, working together, maybe, with the agreement of social agents to define new and more measures for minors, in this case, and also for long-term unemployed. That's what we've been doing since 2009 and that's what we're going to do to reduce the unemployment list, the number of unemployed, in our autonomous community. For the first time since 2007 a year – which was last year – ended with more members of Social Security than when it began, which are 12,000 new jobs, memberships of Social Security, reflected in our statistics. One part of that employment reduction, of course, has to do with youth, what we're talking about today, with those under the age of 30 and with those under the age of 25, where, as Galicia said, it's the community where unemployment has been lowered at this age range. And, of course, that we are not self-compliant and that we know that there is still much to be done, and that is why we want to continue to take different measures linked to training, linked to aid to recruitment and, above all, to certified training to ensure a better future in this case for long-term unemployed people and also for children under 25. Finally, today we are presenting from the Government of Galicia 15 new measures, with an additional EUR 60 million, which can benefit 50,000 Greeks; fifteen measures which are vertebrate in four different axes: improvement of labour intermediation, improvement of employability, support for recruitment and promotion of entrepreneurship. As far as our youth is concerned, if we add to the Youth Employment Plan items presented in 2014 and still in force in 2015, it will be 150 million euros for children under 30 and 25 years of age over the next few years. And for its part, of course, there is that support by its own decision, by decision of this government, to increase these 426 euros – to those entitled in this community of about 20,000 people – to those hired for one year; to increase those 426 euros to the twelve months that last that contract, or even if it is indefinite, for two years. On January 14, the main representatives, the majority representatives of the workers in our community, who are Labour Commissions and UXT, and the president of the board signed this agreement to contribute not only to revitalizing social dialogue in our community, which is necessary, but also to contribute to implementing these measures, which since the Government of Galicia two of them are already reality and the rest will be published in the Official Journal of Galicia between March and before the first semester. In short, the line that follows this government is very clear, which is a marked line with our commitment to employment, with our workers, with the groups that are most suffering from the crisis, with measures that are serious, responsible and with policies that are based on social dialogue. That is the best recipe for us to ensure that unemployment declines are consolidated in our community and to face a sustained period of net job creation this year. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u119	Thank you very much, Counselor. As has been reported, we then raise the following question. Question by Juan Manuel Fajardo Recouso, from G.P. of the Alternative Galga de Left, on the implementation of the Employment Plan for Risk Perceptors
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u120	You have the word, to ask your question, Mr. Fajardo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u121	Well, first of all: when reference is made to how the work is done in this House by a member of Parliament, it should be made clear that this change in the agenda has been notified to me nothing more to enter the House. So the ability for this to be worked is what it is. We want to denounce this situation because it does not seem appropriate to us. We betrayed a question about the Risk Perceptive Employment Plan, but before that situation, I would like to make a clarification. Obviously, the advisor's explanations did not convince me, especially when the advisor says she starts investigating the plot in 2012, that the grant is granted to Azetanet in the second half of 2013 and that it is published on Friday. Therefore, there is no subsequent publication where it says that this was not paid. So the explanations are rather smooth or hard to understand and, of course, they have a greater impact on the need for you to explain what happened to that situation. But as far as the question is concerned, you announced in May 2014 the start of a program to hire Risga's viewers. It was announced in May 2014, and in January of this year, there were only a few workers who were being objected to this program and therefore working in the Greek municipalities. The original question was: what was this delay due? Because we understand that what is being done is using Risga's perceptions as an electoral hand for the People's Party. And explain. This group asked a question already months ago, which was not answered by the Government, where we asked what were the criteria for awarding these contracts to the municipalities; it had to do with the political color and what kind of employment would be used with these workers. What's the reality? That these contracts have mostly ended up in the hands of the People's Party councils and that these contracts, beyond trying to generate training to enable them to find a job later, have been used for panels of garden works or improvement of urban environments. So, what we're doing is we're using Risga's viewers to do electoral work in this pre-electional councilorship, which they want in the last six months to do everything they haven't done before, and in this case they do it through Risga's viewers. But not only this, there's a problem added. Many Risga perceivers, many more of those who received this help, were expelled from the Risga simply because they did not accept the conditions that the council put them on, and therefore were expelled from that aid perception program. And I ask him, how many were expelled and why? Can you explain to me how there's a program that forces a worker to accept any condition that puts a council to work and still receives the Risk? And, above all: how are you going to solve the problem of these workers returning to the unemployment situation, they don't have a risk and they're going back to that waiting list that in Galicia is so indecent that someone who doesn't charge anything takes more than nine months to perceive the risk – in the best of cases, nine months – and in many cases it's more than one year?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u122	Thank you very much. The work and well-being advisor, Mrs. Beatriz Mato, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u123	Thank you very much, President. Well, trying to be positive, I'm going to be left with it that it seems that at least this measure seems to like Mr Fajardo and that that is why he asks for her, because it was this government, indeed, which first put in place an order to help recruit people who would benefit from social integration income; an initiative that is very important and which obviously means giving them a job opportunity, a job opportunity, to people who have been in unemployment for a long time and who are worse off. As he said, it was published in the Official Journal of Galicia on 3 June 2014, it is published on that date with an investment of 3 million euros, and the filing period was one month to make the resolutions of this order. By the way, resolution, as the order -- from here on to prepare things -- that goes in order of entry, not by political color; by order of entry. As they asked, it would be settled; that is, what was first asked for was the number of persons who would benefit according to the municipality, as the order was published. It is also important to inform yourself, Mr. Fajardo, before we speak, because, indeed, this order is already fully completed, not only with the 3 million, but with the 5 million that we have just increased, and even with all the people hired. It's always been a grant order. We raised them in 1.5 million euros to reach 5 million and to respond to the demands there was. You call it "electoral smoke" – I don't know if that was the word you used now – obviously, but we qualify it as our bet and our commitment to help find a job for those people who need it most. And, in fact, it was 623 who are already hired, some of them have also finished the seven months of contract. I understand, of course, that you don't like to hear the directors at the Galician Council, or this advisor or the president, when we have explained by active and passively all this information about this order. But if you don't want to listen to us, you have a simpler option, and it's a much more useful tool to know in-depth about this initiative, which is the Official Journal of Galicia, where not only the publication appears, but also on December 19th is when you publish the credit outflow; that is, when all people, the 600 people, are hired. There were 120 municipalities benefiting from this aid for 623 people, who had the opportunity to work for seven months on contracts regulated by the agreements that exist in the municipalities, with wages and conditions that collect the collective agreement. And that's why, and because we firmly believe it's a good tool, this year 2015 we re-edit this order to bring not only 620 people to benefit, but 1,000 people would benefit from social integration income. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u124	Thank you very much. Mr. Fajardo Recoso's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u125	All right, all right. You interpret my words. I didn't tell him I agreed with this measure, and I said, in addition, that it was an electoralist measure and that it is done at a time that is not an opportunity for employment. Do you call it a job opportunity for a six-month finite contract that doesn't provide training to return to jobs that allow you to get out of that exclusion situation? Or just what they mean is that they put on available and cheap work for the municipalities to do electoralist works? And we tell him to answer our questions. Why? When this was announced in May 2014, until January, they weren't almost all these workers doing their jobs. Why didn't you answer the written question of this group where we asked for the relationship not only of municipalities but of covered jobs? Because when you say there's an order to facilitate the re-entry into the labour market of people who feel at risk, what you'd have to say is what kind of jobs they did in those municipalities to see if they fit in, because I'm giving you examples that I know directly about that they went to work in the construction department. Everyone knows that now a bricklayer has a lot of skills to find a job, and that's what was done in most of the municipalities. But you didn't answer a question that is fundamental to us: 600 people working. How many people lost the right to Risga because they didn't accept the Leonine conditions that in any case put on the table a council, which didn't put them in writing, but on the first day they presented themselves at the job they had to accept all those jobs, games or jobs outside the usual daytime, as it might be at the weekend, that they didn't accept the public workers of the council. That's what you have to explain. You have to explain to me how you're going to do with those workers who finished those six months of contract – which, by the way, were not the full day – and now you see yourself without any kind of benefit and going back to the last row of the queue to ask for Risga. That's what we're asking him, specific data. You tell me I don't prepare the speeches, but it turns out that you, the advisor, come without any data to give this Member. I'm asking for data, put them in writing. How many contracts? What kind of contracts? How many people lost Risga during...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u126	Thank you very much, Mr. Fajardo. [[Mr. Fajardo Recouso pronounces words that are not perceived.]] [[Applause]] The work and well-being advisor, Mrs. Beatriz Mato, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u127	Thank you very much, President. Mr. Fajardo, I give you data, what happens is that you don't want to listen to them, because when I tell you that there were 620 people hired for seven months through this order in 2014, it seems that you don't want to hear it. And when I tell you this year we're going to double the budget from 5 to 10 million euros so that it's not 620, but more than 1,000 people would benefit from social integration income, because of course not want to listen to it either. And when you say that after these seven months that they're working, they're left without any kind of help, I can tell you and I can tell you that it's not, since they're entitled to a state aid that, of course, they all process it, if they don't find a job opportunity; job opportunity that actually improves since they've been through a contract like this. Because all the aids, not only for training, but also for a job experience, contribute directly to the improvement of your curriculum and give – you are convinced – a better opportunity to find a job. For us it is important to know that the degree of satisfaction of these 620 people, together with the more than 120 municipalities that were beneficiaries in 2014, together with society in general, that this government is well-advised by the inclusion in the labour market of the most disadvantaged people, were those who encouraged this government, as I say, to double our budgeted effort, and so today I can state that in this 2015 call, all the municipalities that have applied for these contracts that will be benefited from this call to receive people who would benefit from the income of social integration and so that they can make a contract of at least seven months; or, otherwise, Mr. Fajardo, while you say that we do not sell anything but smoke and that all we do is talk about, the reality is that it's just the opposite. It was this government that put in place for the first time a recruitment aid order in 2014; what it works in line with all social entities and also all local entities, of course, to listen to their concerns and demands; and above all what it fights for the social inclusion of all the Greeks and all the Greeks through the formula we believe to be the best formula for helping these people, which is employment; and this government did the first Law of Social Inclusion, so that people would benefit from social integration would undertake to work elsewhere and sign – and so agree – an agreement with the Administration to be active and proactive in the improvement of their curriculum through training and even their work. It said: it was 623 – that you don't know; that data you don't want to hear – the workers who benefited from this order, and next year it will be more than a thousand. Nothing more and thank you very much. [[Applause]] Question by Da María Carmen Gallego Calvar and three other Members of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the management carried out by the Labour and Welfare Council to solve the problem generated in the transfer of persons with disabilities from the centre of San Francisco, de Vigo, the Doral Residential, in Mos
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u128	Mrs. Gallego has the floor to ask her question.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u129	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Counsellor, today you cannot be here with us the parents, mothers and children of San Francisco, since we accept from our group the change in the agenda and since, in addition, the President of Parliament, in a decision of which we know no resolution, has prevented this group from bringing guests to this plenary. But they're listening to us on Parliament's website and will therefore listen to what you have to say. As you know, when we asked the Socialist Group here, by the time Mr. Losada, in October of last year, what were the reasons why in a contest you had given a private company the attention of children with intellectual disabilities rather than to leave them in the hands of the San Francisco social initiative entity, who had come to the attention of them in the last thirty years, you are the truth that you had a quite critical behaviour at that time; in fact, it was insensitive and made the people who were in the court listening to their answer. Luckily, fifteen days later, you changed your attitude to the disorder that you were causing in the parents and mothers, in the children and in the children, and you came here to Parliament's plenary and made a commitment. You said you were going to fix that situation, that the children and children of San Francisco and that the parents and mothers would not be harmed by a decision of the Government of Galicia that took out of the hands of a social initiative entity created by the parents and mothers in the absence of a public service response and that you would not, therefore, condemn them to be in the hands of a private entity. Private entity, let's remember, Doral Residencial S.L., which began as a real estate company, which then began to build a residence for older people in the municipality of Mos, which later expanded that residence for older people and for whom you asked for a PIA to also care for people with disabilities. Well, Counselor, it's been months, and you haven't met with those parents yet. Only four families of all the affected have agreed to change for Mos, because you know as well as me that it is a residence in the middle of the mountain, without proper public transport and that it causes problems for both families, children and children; mobility problems and adaptation problems. Months have passed, Counselor, and this situation remains unresolved, and I want to know what answer you will give us here today to us and to the parents and mothers who are seeing us. And I also want and hope for a commitment from your side that at that meeting, to which you have finally summoned them on March 2 in Vigo, probably fruity of knowing that this question would be introduced on the agenda of this plenary, will not go there again to give them good words, slaps on the back and further tardiness. We want compromises, counsellor, we want...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u130	Thank you very much, Mrs Gallego. Thank you very much. [[Mrs. Gallego Calvar speaks words that are not perceived.]] [[Applause]] The work and well-being advisor, Mrs. Beatriz Mato, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u131	Thank you very much, President. To me, before I begin, I would like to ask the speaker, in this case Mrs. Gallego, to measure his expressions a little more, because I do not help anything, Your Honor; I do not adjudicate anything; and you, who was counsellor, should know that there are public contests that are not given, if won; do not give, win. You should know better. The spirit of this Galician Union is, of course, to collaborate with Agasfra; it has been and will always be to collaborate with all disability entities. The deal is total collaboration; the same way I do it with Agasfra, I do it with the rest of the disabled. For this advisor there are no first or second disabilities, and much less first and second entities. Collaboration and dialogue are total; now well, to be able to collaborate all entities in Galicia without exception have done their duties, all except one. That they do their duties simply allows the Galician board to develop with ease the rights that all users have in our community, and all entities in Galicia, or now have concerted squares won in competitions, not given to finger, won in public contests, or have users who have a bookstore. What has no entity is a specific agreement to finance the cost of keeping the squares. Today I strongly say that there is no entity in our community that enjoys differential treatment for the payment of 100 percent of the real cost of the squares. With Agasfra we put all our efforts, all our resources, all our will, limiting ourselves and even bringing us closer to the redder lines that the Administration has to help the 70 families and even the entity. As well as our responsibility and their rights, we offer to all users the resources that the law gives them, that they can protect them, that among them is a public square or a libretto. We made contact with all the family so that they freely chose and were fully aware of the consequences of their choice; in particular, we offered them a public square in the winning center of a contest – not given to their finger – or a libretto, if they wanted to stay in Agasfra. Even so, at the meeting that was lied in December, I offered the opportunity to speak again with this entity and with the families to see what support possibilities we should have in the future, but of course they had to present families the choice of their resource; that is, to present to the Board the choice of their resource. We are fully aware that there are public squares in other centres, that Agasfra currently has no public squares and that the economic amount of the bookkeeping does not cover the full price of the Agasfra square. Today there are four people.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u132	Thank you very much, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u133	I'll continue later. [[Applause]] Mrs Gallego Calvar's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u134	Thank you, President. I know what's going on today, Counselor. Today there are coercion, threats to families, and a resource presented by the San Francisco Association in the courts that calls for the paralysis of the process. Are you sure you've done all your homework? Because he refuses the others to do more or less duties. Counselor, are you sure you did everything right? Are you sure there was no political intent in this decision to punish who from the organizations of disability disagrees with their policies? Are you sure you haven't prepared the expansion of the private centre and the grant of this PIA so that you can also care for people with disabilities in connection with these entrepreneurs? Are you sure, Counselor, that you're not committing any irregularities? Do you know that it is part of a government that has an order from the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia to overthrow the expansion of Residential Mos in Porriño, and that the overthrow of that enlargement is a legal obligation for this government? Do you know that you have granted a PIA to the expansion of this residence with a command to be executed from the Supreme Court of Justice in Galicia to bring down that enlargement? Counselor, are you sure you did the right thing, or, on the contrary, have you taken advantage of the dangerous friendships of the People's Party to punish those who do not agree with the policies on disability that this government makes? Counselor, what are you going to do now? Are you going to execute the order of collapse, that extension of Doral Residential, and let that residence remain private and only for older people? Will you go back to that contest you helped by knowing these irregularities, Counselor? Are you going to apologize to the parents and mothers who have coerced and threatened to go to Mos or are you going to resign, Counselor, what would you have done long ago?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u135	Replica from the Work and Wellness Advisor, Mrs. Beatriz Mato.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u136	What I can assure you, Your Honor, is that what this advisor will never do is prevent, just as you invite me to do every time you have the opportunity to talk about it; that's what I'm not going to do. [[Applause]] And what I'm not going to accept under any concept is that they show that there may be some intent, and much less political, on such a sensitive subject as the attention of the 70 families, in this case of the city of Vigo, with disabilities. What I can ratify is that the will of this counselor was at all times, and uniquely with this entity, to help the entity with all its...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u137	Mr. Losada, you have a call to order. Continue with counseling, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u138	Mr. Losada, would you like a second call? Counselor, please, address me. Counselor, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u139	Mr. Losada, I don't want to have to call you a second time. As soon as you hear it again, you have a second call to order. Counselor, continue, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u140	I say that I do not accept any invitation to prevarication, as, of course, I do not accept it being questioned that it does not comply with the judgments of justice or, of course, with the prevailing legality. My duty is to comply with the law-enforcement, giving everyone, in this case, the 70 families, the opportunity of the public service that is theirs and that a law gives them, and that opportunity is a public square or a relief from the librarianship. What this government is doing is working for everyone and for every person with disabilities in their family, putting what's in their hands, which is the opportunity of a public service. Another thing is to defend the interests of a particular entity. That's something else. And to talk about the interests of a particular entity, what I said at a meeting in December, and what I'm going to say at the next meeting that we will keep next week is exactly the same: I want to know what is the choice of these 70 families, of which 28 have already presented the election of their public resource, who have the right to a bookstore, to know in the situation where the entity is located; an entity that obviously belongs to an association, which is the Fadenga association, which today occupies more than 50% of public funding, the money of all the Greeks and all the Greeks, in concerted squares. In other words, disability – in this intellectual case – is occupying more than half of our budgetary commitment to providing public services. And, as I said, all the entities of Galicia without exception, are in Vigo, are in Monforte, are wherever they are, they have won public contests; in none were given the public squares to finger, in none of them, and, of course, that will have to continue to be so, because so said the law, because so the law says, to the Law of Grants. And of course he knows the resources, Mrs. Gallego. He filed two appeals for this invitation to tender and was dismissed by the Central Administrative Court. Both ratified the management of this council. It's not that I believe that everything is well done, that it is perfectly believed in that Central Administrative Court. But, I insist, Mrs. Gallego, we are not here to rule out whether or not compliance is legal, because it is my obligation...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u141	Thank you, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u142	...here's what we're for is to give more and better public services.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u143	Thank you, Counselor. We suspended the session until tonight at 6:30 p.m. Thank you very much. [[The session is suspended at two and forty-eight minutes in the afternoon and resumed at four and thirty-one minutes.]] The opinion of Mrs. Environmental, Territory and Infrastructure Advisor, on his own request, to inform the RehaVIta Plan 2015-2020 of rehabilitation, rental and improvement of access to housing in Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u144	You have the floor for your first intervention by Environment, Territory and Infrastructure Advisor, Ms. Ethel Vázquez Mourelle.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u145	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, on my own request to this House, to take account of the measures taken in the Galician Housing Plan 2015-200, the RehaVIta Plan. An instrument that gave its significance and importance to citizenship, and after its adoption at the Council of Meeting last February 12th, we wanted to present immediately in this Parliament so that it could be analyzed and discussed. We are faced with strategic planning that will guide public housing policies over the next five years, a plan that promotes rehabilitation and collects a number of concrete measures to facilitate access to a home to those Greeks who need it most. You know, ladies and gentlemen, that housing policies have a triple dimension: the first and fundamental, the social aspect, because it is about guaranteeing constitutional right to a decent housing and therefore designing one of the basic policies of the welfare state; the second, territorial, because the way in which we plan is decisive in the definition of our country model; and the third, economic, because construction and rehabilitation are a fundamental sector in the generation of economic activity and employment. So, given all these factors, the RehaVIta Plan emerges, which are available on the Environmental, Territorial and Infrastructure Council website. An autonomous housing plan that is characterized by commitment and sensitivity to those Greeks who need it most, by their orientation towards a rational and sustainable future in this matter, and by taking very much into account the economic environment by driving a strategic environment for the economy and employment. The 2015-2020 Housing Plan reinforces the policy guidelines that we have seen since June, developing in this area in recent years and redoubles quantitative and qualitative efforts, increasing resources and implementing new programs and measures to get even further away and to respond to a greater number of people and situations. The fact is that, despite the strong budgetary constraints, we have from the very first moment set the priority to meet the most unprotected population sectors and make an important effort in this direction. We focus on dealing with those emergency situations arising from the mortgage executions, and 100 percent of the applications in this issue have been met. All those affected by a mortgage execution who asked for it and who met the requirements if you paid them a housing, 43 in total. And we also want to support those who have left their homes before the execution, the victims of gender-based violence or the families who have lost their homes because of circumstances other than them. Since 2009, the Galego Institute of Housing and Solo has directly assisted 157 public promotion homes to respond to people in these complicated situations. We have made it a great goal to facilitate access to housing, and to do so we prefer to promote conservation and recovery of the already built, before continuing to occupy the ground. That is why we encourage rehabilitation, by performing emblematic actions, executed directly by the Galego Institute of Vivenda and Solo in places like Lugo, in Tinería and Mazoi, in Ourense, Vigo, Mondoñedo, Vilalba or Vila de Cruces, or by declaring areas of integral rehabilitation in one hundred twenty-eight municipalities of Galicia. Thanks to this impulse, more than 63,000 rural dwellings have been rehabilitated, achieving, in addition to their adequacy to the environment, a remarkable improvement in the living conditions of their occupants. Another piar who guided the actions of the Board on housing was the launch of three successive programmes of aid intended for renting private homes, which made it easier to access a home to thousands of people with difficulties. And this without forgetting the residential land performances that developed the Galego Institute of Housing and Solo, which, in addition to facilitating access to housing, helped determine the urban configuration of the seven main cities of Greece. A whole set of measures to which we have allocated more than 278 million euros since 2009. And we want and we must continue to move more intensively on this road that has already begun; we want and we must continue to work to alleviate the difficulties that many Greeks and Greeks are experiencing in accessing a housing; we want and we must continue to bet on as we have so far by promoting rent and rehabilitation, to occupy and retain what already exists; and we want and we must contribute to the dynamization of employment in the construction sector, which is so severely punished by the crisis. And that's why we put in place the RehaVIta Plan, which, in addition to inciting these axes, incorporates new measures to facilitate access to housing to people, families, who need it most; the main objective of this strategic planning. Because we are talking about the first plan that will be drawn up by the Galician Union and will mark housing policies by 2020. A plan of rehabilitation and greater access to housing, which will benefit more than 152,000 Greeks and will mobilise 600 million euros, of which 307 will be contributions from the Public Service; this is therefore an increase of 10 per cent from the previous five years. More than 50% of the funds in the plan are dedicated to facilitating access to housing, boosting rental for sectors with lower resources. In the evaluation of the RehaVIta Plan we took into account the criteria of Galicia's territorial structure, defined in the Territorial Management Guidelines; housing demand indicators, such as demographic projections and, above all, the Register of Housing Applicants as a specific indicator; as well as the benefits provided for in the actions in its social aspect as a cornerstone of the state of well-being and the source of social cohesion in the protection of landscape and in the generation of employment. Regarding this last point, if I may, ladies and gentlemen, I remember that every million euros invested in construction is 35 jobs, which increases to 56 when investment is dedicated to rehabilitation. Therefore, the mobilization of 600 million euros collected by the RehaVIta Plan will allow the creation of 26,500 jobs. We have designed this strategic planning around four action axes: access to housing, which seeks to reach families, especially those most in need, an adequate housing, EUR 107.5 million; rehabilitation and urban renewal, with nearly EUR 134 million; the third axis, prevention of residential exclusion, with EUR 64 million; and the fourth axis, with a lower quantitative impact, but which is therefore crucial for the development of this plan. These four action axes are divided into different programs and actions, which I will try to explain with clarity below: The first axis of access to housing collects four programmes: public promotion of housing, support for the promotion of protected self-protection housing, support for buyers and cooperatives of self-protection housing, and housing rent. From the German Government, we continue to consider the public promotion of housing. That's why the first of the four programmes aimed at promoting access to housing also collects four actions: the construction of public promotion housing, in which the Galego da Vivenda and Solo Institute will continue to take the initiative, but where we include new possibilities for collaboration, both with other institutions and with private promoters and also with the buyers themselves, in order to increase the existing supply. We will provide families with a new system of co-ownership, for those homes that enter between 1.5 and 2.5 the IPREM. It will consist of signing co-ownership contracts between the Galego Institute of Housing and Solo and the housing attorney, so it acquires at least 60% of the property, leaving the rest in the hands of the IGVS, and therefore enjoying 100 percent. This is a clear advantage to the tax collector, who will pay the monthly allowances corresponding to the percentage of the property acquired. In short, he'll take a lower price. And also, within the housing protection period, it can be done with 100 percent of the property, paying the percentage that it didn't initially acquire. As a second step of this program we will develop new solo for the housing of public promotion, carrying out actions and initiating different collaborations with the municipalities. Even so, we will improve the management of the 2,800 housing rentals owned by the IGVS, the Galego Institute of Housing and Solo, adapting the incomes to the rents of tenants and ensuring their good maintenance, and facilitating better conditions for their financing. The second program that will promote access to housing is to support self-protection housing, housing developed by private promoters and which have classified protections. For this program we articulate two actions: the promotion of residential soil for housing self-protection in the areas of greater demand and the flexibility of the operation of the Register of housing claimants, to give more agility to addiction. As a third programme to promote access to housing, we will carry out support actions for self-protection housing acquirers and cooperatives. This programme has two lines of action: specific measures for VPA housing cooperatives, facilitating the incorporation of partners that complement all the cooperatives needed to develop the promotion; and those designed to facilitate access to credit for self-promoting housing buyers, maintaining and expanding the agreement with financial entities and implementing a new interest subsidy programme. The fourth program that closes the housing access axis is the renter, one of the tools that most opportunities to offer solutions from a home to citizens. This program centers on four action lines: Agreements and collaboration with Sareb. A new measure that will allow us to incorporate the first hundred dwellings of your park into the offer of public housing, to offer them through social rents to families with special economic difficulties. And now, ladies and gentlemen, by mid-March we will be setting up the agreement that will enable us to put this initiative in place. The coordination of the municipal empty housing programme, in collaboration with the municipalities, by creating an empty housing bag, which will be destined for the self-sustainment programme, with advantages for tenants and owners. And as a third and fourth lines of action for this program, we will continue with the help of the Vigilant Aluga Program and the management of the aid program derived from the 2013-2016 State Plan. The second axis of the plan is based on housing rehabilitation and urban reorganization. This second axis of the RehaVIta Plan collects all actions aimed at rehabilitation of the built housing park and is structured into four programs: isolated rehabilitation, direct rehabilitation by the Galego Institute of Housing and Solo, integral rehabilitation areas and other rehabilitation actions. The isolated rehabilitation programme provides, on the one hand, aid for the rehabilitation of single-family homes in historical complexes, rural nuclei and end of facades on Santiago roads, an action that is part of the strategic objective of the Government of Greece of care and the recovery of landscape and our territory, and, on the other hand, the management of rehabilitation aid for collective housing, provided for in the State Housing Plan. As for direct rehabilitation, the Galego Institute of Housing and Solo will act by acquiring and rehabilitating already existing dwellings in a poor state, mainly in historical nuclei, which will be assisted through the Register of Applicants. And also through the rehabilitation of public promotion housing, directly when owned by the Institute, or in collaboration with communities of owners when they are no longer. And the integral rehabilitation areas will continue to be a key tool in our task, and they constitute the third program on the rehabilitation and urban reorganization axis. We will continue the execution of actions through currently declared ARI, a total of 57, and the declaration of other news will be promoted. With this in mind, we'll publish a new call in the coming weeks. We are talking about a subject in which Galicia has been a pioneer, we have been the first Community to declare an area of full rehabilitation, and in which we continue to be, of course, a state referent. The fourth program on the second axis of the RehaVIta Plan collects further rehabilitation actions. Three lines of action are included here: aid to improve energy efficiency, through the ERDF funds in coordination with the Inega; actions through the Vigo Old Casco Consortium; and other measures to support rehabilitation, such as agreements with entities and associations to promote rehabilitation, vocational training in the field of rehabilitation, coordination with municipal rehabilitation offices or the dissemination of existing aid in this area. The third axis of the plan focuses on the prevention of residential exclusion and aims to provide coverage to situations of special risk in families where housing costs represent a very high percentage of their income, because they are low or even sometimes non-existent. This third axis of the RehaVIta Plan, which seeks to respond to surviving situations of residential exclusion derived largely from the current economic situation, is structured into three programmes: housing of public promotion of insertion, relocation of affected by mortgage executions and the Programme of Support to Residential Emergency Situations. The Public Promotion Housing Program provides for two basic lines of action: coordination with the Galician Social Inclusion Strategy 2015-2020, and the derivative of the previous: the creation of the integration housing network. It shall be made available to public administrations or non-profit entities carrying out social activities to manage them in lease schemes or other forms of occupation. They are designed to care for people who require special attention and who, in addition to housing, need social assistance. The second program on the residential exclusion prevention axis will be redirected to the relocation of affected by hypothetical executions. It's a program for those people who lose their only home by the mortgage execution procedure and who believe the lack of sufficient income, that is, whose income is not above IPREM 2.5. For them, in coordination with the Reconduit Programme, the IGVS will have a housing and will meet the 100 percent of applicants who meet the requirements, as has been done so far. The axis of the prevention of residential exclusion is closed with a third programme to support the situation of residential emergency, aimed at providing solutions to situations where it is impossible to access a housing, which can also bring with it situations of social deprotection and exclusion. This program is provided through two basic action lines: The rental bonus, a pioneering measure, consists of urgent and temporary support for people who need help to take the cost of renting the housing, with help of an amount of approximately 150 euros a month. Needs situations will be assessed by municipalities as closest entities. And the repair of rural infra-vivals. We're going to set up a line of support for the repair of rural inhospitables in municipalities of less than 5,000 inhabitants, addressed to rural people with no resources. The maximum aid in this case shall be EUR 8,000 per housing. And the fourth and final axis of the RehaVIta Plan refers to other housing measures. As I indicated at the beginning of my speech, this is a set of actions with less economic content but with a great impact on seeking agility and the need to allocate resources and information to housing buyers. This axis includes policy measures and studies and work relating to the quality of construction and technical standards, put in place by the Building Assessment Reports Register and regulation of the Community Proponent Register, as well as the IGVS Property Sites Sales Plan, among other matters. Ladies and gentlemen, this whole set of axes, programs and actions that we are going to develop until 2020 tells us of a policy on full and ambitious housing, a planning that collects the basic lines of action that we have been developing since the Galician Union in recent years in this field, but which is being expanded and complemented by new measures that affect the quality of life of those with less resources. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the first housing plan that fully develops the German Government. We are talking about mobilizing 600 million euros, of which 307 are provided by the Autonomic Administration by 2020, aimed at promoting access to a decent housing for people, for families, for those with the greatest difficulties, and also preventing residential exclusion, which will positively result in the dynamisation of a key sector for the economy of the community. These economic figures of the RehaVIta Plan have their social and labor counterpart, because the Galician Housing Plan is born with the aim of facilitating a decent housing and benefiting about 152,000 people in the next five years, but it also aims to activate 26,500 jobs. As you see, ladies and gentlemen, the RehaVIta Plan, whose measures I have tried to expose with maximum clarity throughout my intervention, is much more than a Housing Plan, will be an effective mechanism of social cohesion and also a real tool for the drive of the economy in our community. For my part, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u146	Thank you very much, Counselor. Intervention of parliamentary groups. Joint Group, Mrs. Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u147	Thank you, President. Good afternoon to all and to all. Of course, you have to turn it around to escape reality, to touch it always with a profile and, if you can, deny what's obvious. I'm afraid there's something I'm sorry about, and it's when I hear about residential exclusion, because now the poor are on the side: there's poor people who don't have a home, there's poor people who don't eat, there's poor people who can't afford heating. Now the poor go side by side. Counsellor, there is poverty; those who lose their homes are not only in a situation of residential exclusion, they are in a situation of energy exclusion, they are in a situation of food exclusion, they are in social exclusion. So leave the euphemisms and recognize that in Galicia a large part of the population lives in poverty, in absolute poverty. And now you're helping us rent housing to facilitate access and residence in a rental scheme to people with limited economic resources. "Permanence," we hope it will be fulfilled because until now it has not been fulfilled in any case, and people who had an official shelter have been removed from their homes. And yet, despite all that seems to be worrying about the Government, they do not include as groups preferred to single-parent families, or families with minors, seniors or dependents. In addition, the requirements include that among all members of the family unit not exceed 2.5 times the IPREM, i.e. that the entire family unit has less than EUR 1,330 of income per month. Of course, for a family with four people it's not easy to live and pay a housing with these wages, which you, moreover, devote themselves to further cutting and favoring that they are established because double wage scales and other measures in our country, applauding those business policies. The amount of aid will be 40% of the annual income, with a maximum limit of EUR 200 per month. And, you, with that, really, do you think they're going to facilitate access to the homes of people who are excluded, of the poorest, the most needy, do you think they're going to guarantee a home to all the children and children in our country? The only thing we have and what I fear is that we are expected from here to the state elections are these single and exclusive propaganda measures. The procedure, in competitive competition; with which it is shown that many people who meet the requirements will not be able to access the housing. The deadline, a month; of course, as there are so few people in our country who have housing problems, with a month they understand that one month a year to apply for housing is good for everyone. Of course, those who are fired or found in that situation from February 19 this year will be excluded. Because you do exclude families from being able to find a decent home where you can live. It should remain open all year round because it is the only way to assess precisely the need for the promotion of social housing in rent and sale, the most demanding areas, the possibility of recovery of housing already built in each area, the possibility of attracting population to certain bars to curb depopulation, the number of empty dwellings in the area and those in possession of the bank. You commented that Sareb will give up 100 homes for families with special economic difficulties. What does Junta understand are special economic difficulties? Because it turns out that there are people who can't afford housing, but they don't have special economic difficulties for the Union. It is also worth highlighting the impetus to public promotion, where it incorporates, in addition, collaboration with private entities. More business for the private brick, more business for those who delivered the envelopes to the People's Party. We're in the campaign, they need money, it seems obvious. But in addition, it will also be promoted, without a study before housing and the need for housing in each area, to promote soil to continue building more housing. Therefore, more brick without planning. As for the rent, it's about Sareb's dwellings, but it's not about much more. An income of housing will be created, which will be made available to non-profit entities carrying out social activities, to manage them in lease schemes or other forms of occupation for people who require special attention and who, in addition to housing, need social assistance. Counsellor, this is not housing policies, this is social assistance, people who need social assistance. He's mixing everything in this propaganda campaign that you're carrying into the government, because each one is now engaged in propaganda in his own area. Rehabilitation and urban renewal through programs that include help to fix housing in historic helmets, in rural areas, Santiago Road and the façades of single-family housing. Are we talking about help to recover homes and make them habitable or are we talking about fighting against the spell? What are they looking for? Election advertising that doesn't respond to the problem of access to housing in Galicia nor is it linked to an industrialization plan, to an agribusiness plan, to a population recovery plan. It propagates in the Union estimate, which places about 152,000 Welsh beneficiaries and would benefit from this aid. You, of course, have no caution or measure. Are you really going to guarantee housing for 152,000 Greeks and Greeks with difficulty in accessing the house, and will you really create 26,500 jobs? This sounds more like Pemex's promises: all those thousands of jobs that Pemex was going to give through all that number of ships that never got built in Galicia and which remained only in that propaganda. According to the study by the Environmental Council, by its advisor, 18.4% of the apartments in Galicia are unemployed. Which means that in Galicia there are 241,047 empty dwellings; according to the census of the Union itself: in Lugo, 20.26%, 37.673; in Coruña, 99,000; in Ourense, 35.440; in Pontevedra, 69,260. But if we talk about municipalities, for example, we have 20,000 empty homes in Coruña and in Vigo 18,654; I say the cities with a high demand for housing and therefore of homeless people and families. The first step would be to release the empty dwellings by beginning to negotiate with the bank the provision of homes from evictions to devote them to social rent. In this way, the number of housing available for social rent would be increased. Housing is a fundamental right to develop a dignified life, for the integral development of human beings. According to Caritas, in Galicia there are more average people than in the state; specifically, in Galicia there are 133 people per 100,000 inhabitants. The European Social Charter also calls for urgent reform of the Galician Housing Programme, legal reform in the area of rent and in the procedures for the execution of mortgages; it also calls for the promotion of social rent and the occupation of empty housing. But you also put it aside and follow your own policy. Nor do they deal with particularly vulnerable groups...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u148	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u149	...as are women with children in charge – I've finished – or boys and girls coming from sheltered centers older than 18 years old. We're in an election year. It's clear that this housing plan is just propaganda, because if it's not understood to present a housing plan when they allow Galicia to continue increasing the evictions, in particular, 1.4% in 2014; which gives an average of five daily evictions between July and September last year in our country. And, at best, these people are offered a place to live in another province or municipality, away from their children's education center or the precarious job they can have. Therefore, if they really want a proper housing program that responds to needs, they present a demand study, the possibility of job creation, expansion of housing intended for social rent, incorporation of all empty housing in the possession of the bank...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u150	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u151	...and you help the rent not to limit themselves to a mere alms. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u152	Thank you. Parliamentary Group of the Galician Nationalist Block, Mr. Pombo Rodríguez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u153	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, and Counsellor. Indeed, on February 12, the board of directors approves the RehaVIta Plan 2015-2020, and the publicity of this RehaVIta Plan has just been told by Mrs. Counsellor. And advertising is good: the housing plan that fully develops the Union, 307 million euros public, benefits, sieve, or will benefit 152,000 Welsh and Welsh. The objectives are to facilitate access to housing in property, renting in different versions, boost rental for families with limited resources, great boost to rehabilitation, prevention of exclusion, rental bonus even to avoid rejections and policy measures. Round advertising, Counselor. The advertising and propaganda of this plan, I don't know how many Greeks and Greeks will be confused, but for the Nationalist Block, it's neither a plan to live in Galicia nor a plan to stop the denials, nor to design the regulatory amendment that the sector claimed, nor will it guarantee the right to a decent housing, nor will it protect the people of this country as it should, but the bank and the private business. You may of course be able to sleep quietly after your intervention, Counselor, but I also tell you that there are dozens of thousands of Greek families who don't believe in more smoke, more propaganda in the face of so-called housing policies, who can't end the housing loss. And allow me to lay hands on the great woman, the great writer, the great rosary, who also spoke something about what it means to lose the dwelling: "No stone has left, where I had lived; / without home, without shelter, I lived in the kurtines, / the razor case hares slept in the bells; / my children... my angels!... that both I wanted, / died, how hungry they were! / I was dishonored, my life was mutilated, / they made me a bed of toxins and woods; / and while the foxes of cursed blood, / quiet in a bed of roses were sleeping." Today, it's Rosaly Day, February 24th. [[Applause]] One hundred and eight years later, the Government may sleep quietly, but the Galician Union, with exclusive living skills, continues to make "a bed of toxos and gestas" to thousands of Greek families, because the "bed of toxos and gestures" is what awaits many families who keep silent while they throw them out of their home. That's reality, propaganda is something we're discussing right now. And they can talk about the RehaVIta Plan, about propaganda, but it won't hide what's a reality, because the People's Valedor himself this Friday cried out and asked the public administrations and the bank and the justice remedy for the families on the edge of the exclusion. Ribeira: six members, two minor children; please ask Valador on Friday for a favor to throw a family in the street. He didn't jump, two months ago, but he's still scratching. Vigo, People's Validor: a woman with a three-year-old daughter with cystic fibrosis is also about to go to the street if the bank – the bank, which we saved at 9,000 million euros – does not also help the defiance. Ourense, yesterday: a family with two children, one of them with a year, also in the street. That's the reality of this country. They denounce those who are working for these families that must end this drama. He denounces the People's Valuer that we must take into account the supreme interest of the children of those families. But it seems that here what interests is advertising, the rest doesn't exist. Of course, the BNG Parliamentary Group has brought to this stage multiple initiatives to reform the existing legislation on housing, to end this scourge, but it seems that we have covered it. The measures of this RehaVIta Plan, I've already told you, Counselor, that, for us, no housing plan, neither to prevent evictions, nor the right to housing, nothing at all. It is not a housing plan because, in fact, something in the housing did the People's Party, which was to undo the plan it had made, that so bad of the year 2008: they eliminated the soil that was in that plan guaranteed to 40% in the municipalities of more than 20,000 inhabitants; they eliminated the law, which was the first law of social housing concerning state level along with the bathtub; they eliminated – we say – a lot of things; and of course, they also eliminated budgets. Remember that in 2009 there were 185 million euros of budget for housing, Counsellor, this year there are 28; some 185 million against 28. That is, they're being cut in the years of the government Feijóo nothing more and nothing less than 724 million euros, which didn't dedicate themselves to the housing, which they cut. And now it comes to us with 307 million, which I know is the universal panacea in five years, 50 million a year. It's not going to serve, of course, to end the defiances, and so said the People's Valedor, and so they say, the own Stop Defiances, organizations that are fighting to fight against the scourge of social exclusion. They've already said that the rental bonus is wet paper, there's no guarantee for a decent housing. Within the plans of the Counselor, this says there will be alone. What is the model of soil, Madam Counselor?, Santiago's, which changes public alone next to the cathedral so that these resources families go to the outskirts in exchange for companies to do a great deal of business? Is that the model that James offers us? They cleared the ground and now in Galicia there's no 5% available, don't I know how they'll do it? They just mentioned it's a great achievement of 100 Sareb's housing. With what funds? Because here they speak of 107 million in six years, 17 million a year. I remind you that that's not enough for everything you say in that paper. What's the rehabilitation model, Counselor? There was it in that Bipartite Housing Law. Of course there was, and there were funds. And it turns out it goes now with a lot less money to have money for everything. He named this Mazoi and the Tinería. Mazoi was finished six years ago, and they come here today to announce it; six years ago this is finished. In Tinería, since six years ago you know what they do in Tinería, do we all know? Cut off everything that had been done, and it remains pending, of course, because they paralyze everything, a center of studies for social research, 12 intergenerational apartments, one center of the day, the value of archaeological remains, some that were already hired, but eliminated. That's the model they bring us here today, saying it's universal panacea. Of course, the regulations that you have modified are not the ones that people claimed, because I don't see the immediate paralyzing of all the defiance files here. If the bank has been sanated: 9,000 million Bankca, 20,000 Bankia; if it has been sanated with public funds, what do we negotiate, 100 housing?, is that a negotiation?, the amendment of Law 1/2013, which here we are tired of repeating, so that we can access the donation paid to change leases? None of that here is a figure. A social housing park with 100 homes, which, by the way, has to pay the rent to Sareb, i.e., business for Sareb. Instead of the bank co-responsibility of the housing by delivering housing to a public housing park, none of this appears in this plan. I urge a Social Housing Fund, nothing at all. So for the BNG, of course, you can make the advertising you want, but Plan RehaVIta 2015-2020 is a plan that, of course, does not protect as people should; but it is true that we see that it protects the bank and protects the private business. And I repeat: 9,000 million euros for Abanca; that which is pending in Vigo to put a woman in the street with a little daughter with cystic fibrosis...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u154	It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u155	...9 billion euros for Abanca; there's the example. Bankia, this one from Ribeira who wants to throw into the street; Bankia, with 23 billion euros, is equivalent to two and a half budget of the Galician Union. Those are the ones who are winning with this plan, and it seems that, for the moment, they won't get them in their teeth. From then on, Galicia would need a plan for a Greek housing designed for people and, of course, not for a hundred and seventy-eight years later, as Rosalía said, they will continue to make us "beds of toxins and woods." Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u156	Thank you very much, Mr. Pombo. Parliamentary Group of the Alternative Left Galicia, has the word Mr. Antón Sánchez García.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u157	Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Counselor. I don't know where to start. What are we talking about in this audience, Counselor? The main feature of a psychopath is the impossibility of empathizing and experiencing remorse at any kind of situation. The policies your party develops are owned by [...] politicians. [[By order of the President, Santalices Vieira, and in the light of Rule 106.1 of the Rules of Procedure, this expression is withdrawn from the Journal of Sessions]] Because we're not talking about what Comrade Cosme once said, about cases like what happened yesterday in Ourense: a family, a father and a mother, two children, a one-year-old boy, who think they have a public administration to defend their interests and that that public administration spends thousands of euros and human resources to throw them in the street, and the only way out that gives them is to go 30 or 40 kilometers without any vital solution? Are you aware, Counselor, of what it is for these parents, of what it means for these children? Thousands of cases that have occurred in recent years, Counselor. A situation in which they're on the street ruined and with a psychological blow for the rest of their lives for those boys. Children, old people, tetraplexing, we've already come from all colors, without compassion, the system works without compassion. Are we talking about that or what are we talking about, Counselor? When you say "an ambitious housing policy" and speaks without any hint of self-criticism that they've achieved 43 royalties since Mr. Feijó announced this royal program, they're missing these people. Look, we saved a lot of money if austerity was applied to the general directors you have. Because social activists at the Mortgage or Stop Disappearances Platform managed without charging for a euro more than you. They've gotten more real than you, they've been able to support those people more than you. He's missing respect when he comes here and talks about 43 royals, and no self-criticism. Well, we're talking about it, and we're talking about what you need to start by doing a data analysis right now. Seven years after the crisis, evictions are still a dramatic problem in our country. The 2014 data reflect that in this country, in Galicia, families go to the street every day. And you have to start by clearing my fault when it says that constitutional right must be guaranteed, human right to a decent housing. You have to start by clearing my fault when it says you have to guarantee constitutional right, human right to have a decent home. You have to start by recognizing that you don't guarantee it. Six years after you begin to rule at this new stage Mr Feijóo, you do not guarantee that constitutional right. After you recognize that, you have to do self-criticism and start by analyzing why it's not met. And you have to start telling us here what the differential factors are, the policies developed in recent years in one country and in the Spanish state, so that, unlike other European countries, there are a lot of thousands of empty housing, millions of empty housing, and, on the other hand, there are also more refugees than anywhere else in Europe, except Greece. They start analyzing why this is so, they start talking seriously about this problem, they feel this problem, they empathize with the people who are going to be on the street, and then we're going to start talking seriously. We're going to start talking about a system, some developed policies, which logically give results. And we see that in other countries in Europe, when other countries do prioritize housing as a right and not a housing as a business – because you came here to say that you want to reactivate the building sector, you didn't come to talk about the right to housing, you came to talk again about the housing business – when other countries in Europe apply policies that prioritize the right to housing, the results are different. There are no wonders anywhere, but the results are different. There is no comparison to what happens in the Spanish State and Galicia and the rest of Europe, because in the rest of Europe there are diametrically opposed policies. Banks were rescued here with billions of euros, but people weren't rescued. The toxic assets of the banks were assumed here; the apartments that weren't worth anything we paid all of them and they weren't even used to give people a place to live. That's right. There's not a 1% public rental park here; in Europe there's at least 15% of that type of rental. Here, Counselor, this same year, we were introduced to a draft land law that once again focuses on the model that led us to the explosion of the real estate bubble. You've made a housing law that reduces the housing of public protection. And even today we learn that the Town Hall of the Crown is going to reduce by 40% of public promotion housing to 8%. And you're doing it, and those measures cost no money. You don't make a single criticism of housing policies, by calling them somehow, which were housing business policies; instead, you want to come here with a plan that's nothing new. You're the same dog with another necklace, nothing more. No more resources or anything. You know that the accounts are made -- this is already to laugh if it wasn't so dramatic -- you're going to put in 307 million euros and say there's going to be 152,000 beneficiaries. That in six years to me is 25 euros a month and a beneficiary, yes or no? And you say that with 300 million euros, it's going to mobilize, you don't know how, another 300, it's 600, and it's going to create 26,500 jobs. He just sprayed the record, he just created a six-year job for 11,500 euros. The rest of the councillors are given the recipe. And that's what it's called, isn't it called coming here to deceive citizenship? Do you think this plan is a serious solution? Do you think this is housing policy? This is not housing policy, Madam Counsellor; this is electoralism, advertising. Because you don't act out of conviction that you have to defend the right to a decent housing, act only when it's too visible a problem, when there were people who burned at the bonzo, when there were a lot of people who threw themselves out of the balcony of their home when it was going to be removed. You've only acted on a matter of image. Of course there are solutions, solutions you don't want to apply. Counsellor, why don't you say, the People's Party, here there's no more defiance, since today there's no more defiance, why don't you establish a moratorium on the defiances, why do we have to be fighting the figures, if there were about 2,400 defiances in 2013 and about 2,500 in 2014 or like 2,300? why don't you say there's no longer going to be a defiance? Why don't you pass the popular legislative initiative presented with more than one million signatures that asked for the donation in payment, so that people who go to the street don't still stand on top of debt for life? Why don't you create a social rental public park with the floors rescued and purchased from that bad bank called Sareb? Why don't they make a bad bank for people? Why don't they change legislation to regulate rents, limit prices, as is done in the rest of Europe, where do they worry about guaranteeing that right? Of course there are solutions, we have to have political will; the will that you don't have, because there are conflicting interests. There are conflicting interests here. Of course we all have our own heart, but we have to get on one side or another. And here's the interest of people who want to have a right: to live, to have a house, and there's the interests of certain institutions, especially financial ones, that what they want is not to lower the value of their assets. And you work for these, you work for the banks. You see it as a good thing to value the price of housing, even though that means the indebtedness of middle and low classes. You see it as positive for the revaluing of housing, even though it costs people to stay in the streets with nothing. You have to decide which side you are on, whether you consider housing to be a business for a few to be enriched or whether you really will comply with the Constitution, you will abide by the Charter of Human Rights and will defend, which is in your hand, is in our hand, defending the right of people to have a decent home. And then the plan he presents to us. Can you also answer why, in two years of the Royal Program today, only 43 people were solved when there were more than 2,000 common housing evictions in that period? Why in 2013 the budget execution level of the Housing Access Programme was 38%, and 43 million euros were executed only 16 million euros? That's good management, isn't it, Counselor?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u158	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u159	A great deal of management while at the same time there were people on the street. See if you can really talk to us once and for all and see if you feel like the suffering of many people on the street today. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u160	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. Mr. Sánchez, please. Mr. Sánchez, please, I would ask you to remove the expression: "Your policies are the own of [...] politicians." Do you accept the withdrawal? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] No, no, but you accept the withdrawal, do you accept it? [[Mr. Sánchez García pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Thank you for accepting it. [[Murmurs.]] No, he accepted. I understood that I was removing the expression, not the... [[Protests.]] [[Mr. Sánchez García pronounces words that are not perceived.]] No, no. I asked you to remove that expression. If you don't take her away, won't you take her away? [[Mr. Sánchez García pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Call the order. It's the regulation, it's the regulation, it's the regulation. [[Murmurs.]] I didn't expect that, I didn't expect that, but it's the Rules of Procedure. [[Protests.]] I didn't expect that. [[Mr. Fajardo Recouso pronounces words that are not perceived.]] You don't get involved, Mr. Fajardo, who won't go with you. I didn't expect this answer, but it's, in any case, a call to order. [[Murmurs.]] Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Sánchez Bugallo. [[Mr. Fajardo Recouso pronounces words that are not perceived.]] I call you by order, Mr. Fajardo. I call you by order, Mr. Fajardo. And don't go on, and don't go on. Whenever you like, Mr. Bugallo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u161	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good afternoon, Counselor. Good afternoon, gentlemen. Compare today before us to present the RehaVIta Housing Plan 2015-2020 the lady advisor on the subject. It may seem like a new subject because, indeed, it is a new plan that is presented to us, even the Counsellor has been in charge for just over seven months. But we can't consider it new for two fundamental reasons: the first because this government has been leading Galicia since April 2009 and will therefore be six years old and because the advisor herself has been part of the board's executive staff since then. We therefore believe that the Counsellor is responsible or responsible for the housing policy developed so far. There's an evangelical saying that "for their facts you'll know them" and so before we analyze the literature, we'll analyze the facts and the achievements of this council within six years. The first thing I would like to point out is that in the third trimester of last year, that is, between June 1 and September 30, which is the last trimester of what we have data from the Council of the Judiciary, in Galicia 439 families lost their homes. Of 439, for about 135, it was because they couldn't pay their mortgage and 278 because they couldn't afford their housing rent. By the way, that not only doesn't mean any improvement, but it means an increase of six to the same quarter of the previous year, in which it was 433. In the face of this social tragedy that is living day by day in our country, the reason of five or six families that lose their homes every day, the work done by the Galician Union is spectacular, Counselor, you yourself have spoken of it: you have managed to have 43 royalized families on apartments enabled for this purpose by the Galician Union. Congratulations! For with your predecessor it was only 33 and with you it is already 10 plus 43. It has to be said that in this same period of time over 5,000 Greek families have lost their homes. Thus, 43 accounts for 0.8% of the Galician families who lost their homes, and thanks to the management of the Galician Union they found a new home among those 500 who had reserved for Galician Union. It is also necessary to say that in this same period of time, or without going over the entire period of time, for example, between 2011 and 2011 with the Government Núñez Feijóo, and the year 2014, also with the Government Núñez Feijóo, the budget of the Galician Council for renting aid dropped from 11 million euros to 4 million. I mean, at a time when there's a real social tragedy, the rent, the budget to help these families, it decreases by 60%. That is indeed an important cut. It must also be said, and on the other day it was assumed by the representative of his council in the Territorial Planning Commission, that the Galician Board has a park of 2,800 housing units in rent regime. Congratulations! It's awesome! You see: Vienna has 400,000, 50% of the park, and in Galicia discounting the 300,000 voids, discounting the 300,000 second residence, we have about 1,200,000; that is, we have achieved a spectacular 0.2% of Galician housing park destined for the rental scheme by the Public Administration. 0.2%, nothing to do with 50 percent of Vienna. Faced with this, gentlemen, what's the demand? There was previously a list which the current Government of the Galician Union considered to be uncontrolled and excessive. So now there's a new list of applicants, a new registry of housing applicants in Galicia. Do you know how many families are registered in that register? He wanted to say: January 26, 20 days ago, he was raised to 15,226 families; of them, 7,196 in the province of Pontevedra, 5,653 in the province of Coruña, 1,549 in Lugo and 828 in the province of Ourense. Faced with that, what does Galician Union do? The protected housing policy is growing at a vertiginous pace, since of 2,573 homes that were approved in 2008, or 1,575 in 2009, we reached 471 in 2012, i.e., free fall. At that rate you'll need to be thirty-two years on a waiting list to get a place to live. I don't know if they'll survive there and I don't know how many more will be incorporated in these thirty-two years. But the waiting list goes up for thirty-two years, and they don't think that's not likely to get any worse. The data that are made public by the Ministry of Development, and which I suppose the Counsellor will know, and if I cannot facilitate them, tell us that between January 1 and September 30, 2014 in Spain the construction of 26,131 free homes, of them 2,020 in Galicia, 7.7%. It's very good and above 6%, which is the percentage of Greeks in the Spanish population. Interestingly, in public promotion homes, 11,965 began in Spain, Counsellor, and in Galicia 42, a 0.35%. And in rehabilitated housing, in Spain 10,655, and I don't know if the Ministry's data will be bad, because in Galicia it looks like a zero scrapper, 0%, authentically surprising! All of this is related to the evolution of the budgets of the Union, rather to two aspects of the budgets of the Union: one, its decrease. Between 2009 and 2014 they fall from 210 million euros to 32 million, a moderate decline, 84%. But it's not the same, in the "Foment of rehabilitation and quality of housing" it goes down from 76 million to 5 million, 90%, it's okay. In "Access to housing" they go down from 108 million to 14 million, almost 90%. Where it goes down less is in "Direction and General Services", logically, and there it goes down less because it just drops by 50%. But, above all, where it goes down less is in the degree of execution, because, gentlemen, here are two traps: one, the one that goes down, and another, which is not true that they don't spend that money. I don't bother anymore, because I'm running out of time, I'm telling you that in these six years, 671 million euros were budgeted in this living matter, and there were 285 million unexecuted, 285 million unexecuted, a true record! But to continue knowing what you are doing, recently, on September 5, with enormous speed, after only twenty-one months and five days of delay, you signed the agreement for the implementation of the National Housing Plan 2013-2016. Then we are granted Galicia – if I am not mistaken – 46 euros per inhabitant. I don't think it's a big negotiator success, average of Spain is 57. Even in communities like in Andalusia, that always set example, 54, or Asturias 61. That's because it's not compared to Extremadura, which is 58, Aragon 99 or The River 117. So I don't think it's a brilliant example of negotiation. Don't I know what these differences are? But the most surprising thing about this program – and this is where philosophy is perfectly explained – I'm going to read to you: program 2, "Help on housing rental", the state provides 13,632,000 euros in three annual years, the Galician Union nothing, program 4, "Fountain of building rehabilitation", the state provides 4 million euros, the Union nothing. This requires some kind of explanation and is, of course, totally contradictory to what you just told us. And now they're presenting us with a new housing plan. Should we believe it or will it happen the same as everything before? We already know that of what you paint in budget 50% won't be done, so you have to reduce it to half. But is this literature, where is budget support? You will have to see it, and – as I said before – apart from seeing it, only half will be executed on top. Ladies and gentlemen, until we see him, we can't believe what he's bringing us here. I can't get into this because I don't have time, I just want to tell you that the lease bonus seems unqualified to us. In Galicia there is a rental bag controlled by the Galician board, where you control the quality of homes, prices and people who access them, and now you want to replace it with a bonus, that's like the school bonus. Actually, a bonus, but this is the one who benefits from renting homes, doesn't benefit or help them or will solve the problem...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u162	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u163	...people who have no economic resources. And with a top of 200 euros, what can you do for a family with social assistance of 420 euros, if a rent at best is 600 euros, which is the maximum protection, up to 600 euros? If the apartment costs 600 euros, with a help of 200, what does that family live on? Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I will complete my intervention in the second part, but it is clear that his deeds do not assess that they can be granted any creed or trust. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u164	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez Bugallo. People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Castilian.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u165	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mrs. Martínez, to me, it gave me the feeling that you were in another debate, frankly, because it started out on some subjects, it ended up with others, but less of the housing plan that came to expose here the counselor, spoke of anything but that. Mr. Pombo, if I were in your place I wouldn't talk about it was real housing. I told Mr. Pombo because he had direct responsibilities six years ago at home, and that he pulls out to reduce precisely the housing plan that you had, that he had absolutely rejected all the municipalities, including those of the BNG, and the only thing they did with that plan was to spend 3 million euros on studies, paid to technicians and other people I don't know where... [[Interruptions.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Applause]] But if you're here to talk about this, you're here to talk about it when you've been in charge of housing... calm down, man! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u166	Quiet, quiet! Mr. Jorquera, be quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u167	I heard him quietly, don't worry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u168	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u169	Hey, I'm just saying what happened. You weren't here, but I was here.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u170	Quiet, please. Mr. Jorquera, be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u171	Well, you guys want me not to tell you that when you got to Vivenda... you, and I mean, Mr. Bugallo, your party was the president of the Galician Union. So those who go from progressives to this band when they arrived at Galicia in 2005 both the Xestur and the IGVS were overpowered, were perfectly healthy and problem-free. To give you an example, which you know well, I tell Gestur de Lugo: there was 8 million euros in the box, when you left you had 38 debts, to give you an example. But of course, you guys... just relax that I heard it, you know! and if you don't learn it afterwards, and I'm not surprised you don't know the data, it doesn't surprise me. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Murmurs.]] Relax, really. Because, of course, it's what there is, and that data is there if you want, and you know what happens to Xestur. [[Interruptions.]] And, of course, when Mr Bugallo talks about the budgets of the Board, that there were 285 million euros left without investing, he might not remember that 263 million euros were paid in the debts of Xestur, to clean up the Xestur. Can you imagine how much could be done with these 263 million euros? About 3,000 homes, Mr. Bugallo, 3,000 homes, which had to be paid for what you didn't do and left without paying, that this changes a lot. Because, of course, the Gestur in 2009, the great prowess after these crashing housing plans that Mr. Pombo was selling with the Housing Council, it turns out they had debts or – let's say – payment commitments for 900 million euros at that time, and there was only 45 million revenue. Twenty times less income than we had to pay. That's called budgetary balance. That's what you guys had, of course. But that has to be said, logically. And they don't come here to teach lessons, because, indeed, we would like to, and I'm convinced that the Counsellor and the entire Government of the Union would love to make a better housing policy. Of course I do. But, of course, the funds are the ones that are there, and the debts that you have left are the ones that are there, and you have to pay them, because we're not like Tsipras, that we say we don't pay, no, we want to pay. Now there are a lot of people who want to go left even to Podemos, there you are! Mr. Bugallo, you presented an initiative curiously the day before the plan was adopted, the RehaVIta Plan, on 11th, the plan was approved on 12th at the board of directors. It's a coincidence, but you're asking the Galician Parliament to insist that the German Government present in this House, within three months, a specific plan of the Galician Union to resolve the existing demand for housing and such. The specific plan has it here. The speed and management of the board that you've already presented to him in one day are fixed. You're looking at agility. At the same initiative, you speak here – and I'm going to read only data that you put here, then we'll talk about whether they're true or not, because there's someone I want to answer – of 10,761 housing applicants, of one type or another, etc. I'm telling you it's a few more, because there's a lack of self-protection housing. But you say here that in 2010 – they were the log data, the model you had, then you were still there – there were 34,135, right? Well, man, 10,000 is a third, something less than a third of 34,000. Those were the data you had, and these are the data you have now. Home!, I, honestly... I also tell you that it's not exactly like that, now there are 15,000 people, 15,000 plaintiffs, and then what I had. It's also true that they had the record that way, because even Amancio Ortega could request a residence. That was the housing policy you had, eh! because even Amancio Ortega could ask for an official shelter. That was the record they had, and logically it was changed. Look, you were talking about the subject of royalties, which practically all of them referred to. They actually took advantage of the 43 real estate plan, they asked for 110 and they did 43 because logically, if Amancio Ortega or anyone else didn't meet minimum requirements that were established, they wouldn't have the right to a royal estate. That's what there is. I'm Mr. Sánchez, look, you, I understand. You made a speech here, you gave no data, you gave no proposal, an apocalyptic speech. Possibly look for accon in Podemos. We can understand that, Mr. Sánchez. That's the populist speech 100 percent, but of course, of nothing living, of giving nothing truths. And you know that. And, Mr. Bugallo, I really do have it for a serious and rigorous person, but I have to tell you that you disappointed me, and you disappointed me very much. Because I'm going to tell him something, and maybe I was wrong about what I heard, but I ask him to tell me if I was wrong, he said, "439 families in Galicia lost their housing in the third quarter, 135 because they didn't pay the mortgage, 318" – the difference – "for not paying the rent." Hey, and you actually read the report from the Judiciary Council, you saw what it puts there: 400 in the third quarter. By the way, it's increased by one tenth of what's increased in Andalusia, which we can talk about Andalusia, if you want your policies, where they're all. Except for the BNG, the rest are participating in the housing policy in Andalusia, where it was shot ten times more than in Galicia, in Galicia the 1.4, which is a lot, because we would like it to be absolutely not a single defiance or a single launch of a mortgage. But, look, what the Judiciary says in the report is that there are also 439 rustic farms, shopping sites, garages, etc. Hey!, a 20-dwelling building is on the order of 60-80 registrar farms, 60-80 releases; there are legal persons and physical persons. Within the legal people, logically, it's the companies, who have jammed their premises or jammed their buildings with multiple dwellings with a horizontal division. And within the physical people there are all kinds of dwellings, and even if there were only two, they'll be many, because two homes, two families that are defeated, will be many, but you can't come here to manipulate. And I had you for a serious person. You can't be manipulated. And that data, Mr. Bugallo, I hope in the second round you correct them and say you were wrong, because you're not. There's everything. And I say, even if they're just two normal dwellings, they're still a lot, and one would still be a lot. But I also tell you that the Board has dealt with all the cases that have taken place. And there was one person here who said that even if families were to be defeated in official shelters or public promotion housing. And that's false, false, not a single one. And I challenge you to put it here in front of everyone, to say what the housing is, unless you've defeated yourself for necessity, for having no money, for not being able to pay the rent or the term of residence even if it's owned. Not a single one! No, why would it be? [[Murmurs.]] Because logically people have to comply and they can have income to pay and prefer to do something else. No, ma'am, you know that you brought a case here and it wasn't real, you know that, and that's why you're saying that. [[Murmurs.]] Look, I'm just telling you that not one case, I'm telling you. [[Interruptions.]] No, no, that's not true. [[Murmurs.]] You say what you want, but it's not like that. And, of course, the bonus that is given, the bonus that you qualify as unqualified – I don't know what kind of bonus you mean, but it's the rental bonus, the rental bonus, the rental aid bonus – tell them and let them explain it to the families that soon they can receive it, that they are in a situation of difficulty to reach the end of the month, and that they tell them that in addition to the benefits they have for different administrations and concepts they will have a help that can turn the 150 or 200 euros, which they can get to them at the end of the month to help pay the rent. Tell them it's not worth anything and they'll throw it away. No, look, it's too bad they weren't anymore, possibly, but that's what there is. And, of course, I understand that you have to do the numbers and you have to manage, among other things, the debts that unfortunately left us the ones on this side, which now come teaching everyone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u172	Thank you, Mr. Castineira. Replica, Environment, Territory and Infrastructure Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u173	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen. One of the main issues they are concerned about, and of course, the work of the Greek Government is to address the difficulties that families are experiencing in accessing a housing, and that is why, ladies and gentlemen, we have designed and presented this strategic planning that we are discussing today in this House. The RehaVIta Plan is born of this government's commitment and sensitivity to the situation that many Greeks are suffering to access a home. And proof of that is their social impact, which is especially in the most risky sectors and which is the main criterion that we follow in the design of the measures and actions collected. Ladies and gentlemen, we are particularly concerned about the prevention of residential exclusion, as is stated in the plan, which provides for a series of actions to cover situations of special risk in those families where housing costs represent a very high percentage of their income. These include initiatives aimed at reallocation of those affected by mortgage executions. So, as I have already indicated, through the Galego Institute of Housing and Soil and in coordination with the Plan Reconduce, we will make available to those affected a housing, which is needed, 500, 1,000. Our commitment is to provide coverage for all those affected by the mortgage executions that meet the requirements, which are simple: that they are the object of defeat of their only home and that the maximum income is 2.5 of the IPREM. And we will continue with the Reconduce Programme, led by the Labour and Welfare Council, which will seek to prevent the rejection through negotiations with banking institutions and the search for payments and social rents. Because I'm sorry to remind you, ladies and gentlemen, you are not the only ones, nor are you the first ones to be concerned about the delicate situation that is suffering from poor Greek families. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that we should all be involved in this drama. To address this problem efficiently, we need a fundamental first step: to ensure that families affected by mortgage executions make their situation known to administrations, because that is the only way we can help those who need it. To achieve this objective is the responsibility of all, ladies and gentlemen: of public administrations, political forces and of all groups and associations. Those affected need solutions and our duty – everyone's duty – is to provide them with the maximum information, so that they can know the mechanisms that governments tell them to alleviate their situation. I sincerely believe, ladies and gentlemen, that this is up to everyone, and that's why I invite them to let them use partisans and look for opportunistic photos at whose door they are at risk of being removed. Instead of looking for the photo at the door, pass on to the other side and explain that the County Social Services are at your disposal and that the Galician Union has programs that, whatever their situation, will not keep them in the street. I ask you to fix it together, in the same direction and with the same objective: to prevent the Greeks from suffering situations of social disprotection and exclusion. Because we are aware that in some cases the problem lies in that the information does not reach the potential beneficiaries, we want all citizens affected or involved in these processes to know first-hand what measures the plan is taking. And that's why I've already told you that we're going to start a round of contacts with municipalities, lawyers and collectives and platforms that are in direct contact with people who have problems with their housing. The objective is that people or groups that in one way or another have a direct relationship with those affected – social services, lawyers, collectives of affected – know in detail the new housing plan properly, to transmit it properly to beneficiaries, and also to collaborate with us in the realization of certain aspects of their development. The first point will be to present the Realox Program to be affected by mortgage executions. But we'll have other things to talk about, too. For example, the rental bonus, which will start working this summer. A novel program, in which the participation of specialized groups will be key to its definition. And we can't forget another indispensable actor: the Social Services of the Town Councils. They are the first to have contact with people at risk of losing their homes, and that's why they know in detail the possibilities that Plan RehaVIta makes available to these people. In fact, in cases such as those known last week in Vigo, in Aurea, or in Ribeira, of Maria del Mar and Antonio, or in Ourense, from the board of Galicia, we made direct contact with these municipalities, making ourselves available to them and urging them to contact those affected to give them this information. This is the most logical procedure, since social assistance has to be developed and agreed upon in the administration closest to the citizen. Ladies and gentlemen, as long as a single Galician family is at risk of losing their homes, we will not be satisfied 100 percent by the work done. That's why we care with total respect and total concern all and every one of the people who attended the various programs affected by the junta's mortgage executions. And that's why every time we have knowledge of a case, we contact your council to make us available to you and ask you to give all the information to the person concerned. So we came to do it in the case of Vigo, with Aurea, in the case of Ourense, with Maria Pilar, and in the case of Ribeira, with Maria del Mar and Antonio, and so we will continue to do it, as we have been doing in many others who do not go out in the press. We work to alleviate the difficulties faced by the Greek families in accessing a home. That's right, without making any noise and taking pictures of us. Mr. Bugallo, you said 40 houses had been built. I tell you the truth is that in 2015 we will deliver 305 public protection homes. Almost everyone was referring to an electoral plan... ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the only ones who are making a partisan use of people's economic needs to try to find the electoral revenue are you. Maybe you want this government to do nothing until 2017, which is the first year in which there is no election appointment. And the worst thing is they don't say is, it seems like that's the way they act when they have responsibilities in the government. We work in a way. As long as you plot and continue with criticism of the Government, we put solutions on the table; solutions, ladies and gentlemen, that facilitate access to a housing worthy of those Greeks who most need it. Ladies and gentlemen, solutions, what we offer has a name: Plan RehaVIta. The solution we offer is quantifiable: 600 million euros mobilising, 307 million euros are public close. And the solution we offer collects new programs and new measures to offer a more effective solution and reach the largest number of families. But, ladies and gentlemen, bear in mind that the RehaVIta Plan is an open plan. And this is for two reasons: because it is a plan that we will continue to incorporate the measures that are necessary to guarantee constitutional right to a housing worthy of all Greeks, and because in their development through decrees and orders we will carry out various processes of public participation, so that the collectives involved in this matter can bring us closer. Ladies and gentlemen, to finish the shift let me ask you, among all, to make a constructive housing policy, which you think, firstly, about the Greeks and the Greeks, and especially about those who have the most difficulties. That's the way this government is following, and we encourage them to do the same. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u174	Thank you very much. Special round of clarifications. You have the floor for the Joint Group to Mrs. Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u175	Mr. Castineira, for once I'm going to give you the reason: I obviously didn't talk about a housing plan because the advisor didn't present a housing plan either. I talked about propaganda, which is what the counselor said. So I thought this was going to be an appetizer to talk about housing, because I was forced to talk about propaganda and advertising from Galician Union. Because what the counselor did was to advertise that power point that's going around, there's no more. And that's what he's trying to say is that there's a housing plan and he's trying to talk about the creation of jobs... tremendous, that they're going to get us out of the country of unemployment, and that all the Greeks and Greeks are going to have a home in the year and a half. And they want us to take it seriously! We've done enough to endure what we're holding on to from the government, without the opposition getting up one day and saying something much stronger than we're saying. Because there is no plan, it is impossible that there is no housing plan when the beneficiaries are not specified in relation to the applications, it is estimated that they will benefit... And where do those beneficiaries come from?, how many applications are there at this time?, in which provinces?, in which locations?, in which areas?, attached to what jobs?, to which industry?, to which productive sector?? You don't know. Vivendas, where? Will you recover empty houses, abandoned in areas where there is no industry, where there is no future, where there is no work? They don't present anything, they don't present anything. It's a real coat of hair for all the Greeks and the Greeks who find themselves in such a terrible, homeless situation with minors, dependents and seniors in charge. But there's no justification for that planning either. There's no planning. How are those dwellings going to be made, where do you want to go, based on what country planning? Not at all. They talk to us here about 200 euros, which, of course, has already made it clear to me that Mr. Castineira: the aid is for those who come with difficulty at the end of the month. Those who arrive with difficulty the first month will continue to live on the street, because if they don't have to pay the rent, the difference from the rent from 200 euros to the cost of the rent, you won't give them an answer. So don't tell me that here you're talking about a housing plan, when the first thing you'd have to do would be prevent more homeless people, while you're allowing the hostages. And not only allow them, they collaborate by sending the police to evict the people from their homes. That's their housing policy. Where's the rental policy? You are striving for everyone to keep buying, to make, of course, the big business of your building friends. As I've said before: he comes with an election campaign and they have to get close to the envelopes quickly in order to pay for the campaign. You're lying. They lie to homeless people. They lie to the most desperate people in our country. They lie to people who are unemployed with no income. And you were talking about Amancio Ortega. Amancio Ortega, surely, will not be able to rent a social housing, but surely it can be made of gold and a great business with the help to recover historical buildings, because there you do invest in Amancio Ortega, and I wouldn't be surprised that you had received some help from the board to recover the buildings you buy. Defeats in public promotion housing, it's true, there are...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u176	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u177	...to be unable to pay the rent, of course, Mr. Castilians. But precisely for that, the public housing should be. Families with problems to arrive at the end of the month, prevention to paralyze the challenges. I'm telling you examples: a family in Ourense, who refused to accept the official protection floor because they sent her to live in Castro Caldelas or Valdeorras Carballeda, with two children studying in Ourense. They break the family completely, that doesn't matter. You offer a home, and a person living in Pontevedra offers one in the Lugo Navy. You're done, you're done, you've been offered a place to live. So don't keep lying, don't keep getting your hair around and end up with this election campaign, which is too soon, and really focus on giving solutions to the problems of the Greeks and the Greeks. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u178	Thank you very much, Mrs. Martínez. Parliamentary Group of the Galician Nationalist Block, Mr. Pombo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u179	Thank you, Madam President. Of course, BNG is full of joy from these RehaVIta Plan axes: access to housing, urban and rural rehabilitation, prevention of exclusion and other measures. And we rejoice that the PP has been providing solutions for six years. We understand that by cutting the budget, and so we say it with education and humility. The fact is that it is EUR 742 million less since the PP is governing the housing policy – that is of course – that is thousands and thousands of empty housing, and that, indeed, the People's Party had a lot of interest in saning the public bank, and in particular, Banka, with EUR 9 billion; the budget of the Board for the whole year. And she has just told us the Counsellor that she talks to us without going out in the press with the Ribeira family, with the Vigo family and with the Ourense family. We're not the ones reporting this, it's the People's Valedor; it's the People's Valedor who denounces this. Don't know why it will be? And I don't think it's close to the 9,000 million we've given the Bank that we can't stop three challenges. It's quite so... it's clear that the thing is going on, because the evictions are still going on, and the People's Valedor continues to denounce the situation and the social drama, which is not who the people's housing policy to stop. [[Murmurs.]] And they're telling us that the reality is 200 drawbacks a month, five or six or so every day; in two weeks, all of us here, if we had touched each other, would be homeless at the pace it takes. Or even the General Council of the Judiciary warns you that in 2014 mortgage launches were increased by 40%, that is, drama is going to follow. Who rescues families? We wondered. Not propaganda, not advertising, but the budget necessary and sufficient to meet what they expose here in this paper. With all courtesy, Mr. Castineiras, I humbly tell you that I've been working for the bipartite for two years – very proud, by the way – and it seems to me that even the council also didn't seem bad because Mazoi's homes rehabilitated by the bipartite, with great pride, appear in the power points. [[Applause]] You know you're much smarter than me, Counselor, and I don't know how he lets a man lose a man here in this way, in a council he could do a virginry. Anyway, with humility, I'm already tired of spitting around here at the house bipartite. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] I said it wasn't done much, no, 8,000 houses protected, few. But today there's a lot more needs than that, and the PP doesn't even reach 4,500 at the same time. Access to the house? This plan says they spend 2,733 on average access to housing; in the direct access bipartite were 10,000, paid and not withdrawn afterwards as they did. To help rehabilitate this plan that you propagated EUR 1,592 per person. I signed rehabilitations for 24,000 euros, real and paid. Not like now, that the plans are announced and then there's no money to give people subsidies. The budgets of 2009 – I repeat – of the two-party EUR 185 million; this year – counting this plan that is on the paper and all that is in the budgets – do not reach even 80. That's the reality. Therefore, I am very glad, Mr. Castineira, Counsellor, and I hope that the historical helmet of Lugo, which has been stopped for six years...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u180	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u181	...that they end that residence, that they end those apartments that are not done, that they rehabilitate and enhance the historical remains, that they do the nursery, that they end the housing that is stuck to the Roman wall, that is the councillor, that has been stopping it for six years. That's the great achievement of the People's Party. And, of course, I also say that, as far as soil is concerned, the BNG model is not Santiago's, that there may be doubts but there is a lot of heritage. I don't know if you, as there's no money, now intend to make money by selling those homes that are rehabilitated in Lugo, selling those solars that are in the city centers, so that then people with little resources walk the outskirts and the rich live in the middle of the cities. That, of course, is not the model of BNG, so, counselor, please, take note of these things.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u182	Thank you, Mr. Pombo. Parliamentary Group of the Alternative Left Gallega, has the word Mr. Antón Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u183	Madam President, you have a call to order in your locker, and I want to explain it to Mr. Santalices, who hasn't left me before. In no case did I intend to insult anyone, try to make political assessments and read a definition. I talked about "political psychopathy" to explain a situation that I think is descriptive of what's going on. Why? Because I believe that if in six years and three years of the People's Party's government in Madrid and previous governments have not launched policies that eliminate the problem of evictions, as it is practically eliminated in other European countries, it is partly due to the lack of empathy of what I was talking about, lack of empathy for people's suffering. For example, how do we describe what is happening in the Community of Madrid or in the municipality – not remember now – when public housing is sold to Voitre funds, investment funds and which today are putting entire families on the street?, how do we define that? How do we define governments that redeem with billions of euros the banks, Mr. Mouse, Bank and $23,500 million for Bankia, and not rescue people? How to define a Government of the People's Party that comes here and does not make a minimum of self-criticism about the results it has in 2014 about defeats?, when in 2014 there are 2,500 defeats? Counsellor, you should start by apologizing and saying: something we are doing wrong; if you really intend to end the suffering of families. That's what I meant before. You can't talk seriously about wanting to end the problem when the CEO says that only 43 people have been rescinded and there's only 110 applications, which is the fault of the people, who don't ask for them. How would you define that? I don't say a word to him anymore, but you define me as that. You don't make a minimum of self-criticism, either, because in the Spanish state, rejections are a problem of this magnitude, and in other European countries, with different policies, they are not. And why do you insist on the same policies that led us here? And with the same policies we have the same results; different policies. Mr Castineira, Amancio Ortega in Europe, in many European countries, would be entitled to a housing of public protection. Yes, sir, and maybe for you, that's 300 or 500 euros to a state. [[Murmurs.]] But in those same countries Mr. Amancio Ortega would pay many million euros more taxes than in this country. To see what is the most advantageous situation for the people below, whether the European model or the model of the Spanish State, where Mr. Amancio Ortega cannot go to a housing of public protection, very well, but instead he would benefit from the many gifts of the tax system, of which he would not benefit if he lived in France, the United Kingdom or Germany? That's just how it is, of course! Of course, Amancio Ortega can have access to a housing of social rent if he wants, of course, yes! and that he pays taxes where it hurts most: in direct taxes, which is where you forgive him many millions of euros. So let's talk seriously, let's talk about budgets. What is a budget for a country's housing policy that is concerned about guaranteeing the right to housing, Counsellor? Always above 1% of the budget...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u184	Go back, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u185	What is the budget that you propose to us with this plan? Not 0.5%. What are the results of the policies and programmes applied in recent years, Counsellor?, was everything all right?, was everything right? And why does he insist on the same policies? Why are the existing demand for public protection housing lowered in the Housing Act in the case of Coruña from 40 to 8%? Why in the Sun Law do they insist again on urban expansion, on speculation policy?, why? Why do you refuse to modify mortgage legislation, sanctioned again and again in the courts of European justice? Why do they continue to allow banks to abuse consumers? That's what you have to answer. The plan you presented us here today... of course I gave you data, Mr. Castilian. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] He gave data: EUR 307 million that puts the Galician Union. According to this data, it is EUR 25 per month for each beneficiary. I don't know if that's true, or if you don't deny me. They also deny me if you're going to create a job for 11,500 euros for six years, because then give us the recipe that we'll apply it very gladly and we'll end up stopping a pen. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u186	Thank you very much, Mr. Sanchez. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Sánchez Bugallo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u187	Thank you very much, Madam President. The truth is that these debates always bring new details, Mr Castineira never fails. And, of course, the image of figuring out Mr. Amancio Ortega living on an official 90-square-metre protection floor or on a waiting list to receive medical assistance or other things would be a very democratizing picture of the country, without any doubt; and if he had paid 85% of his income as paid in Sweden, he would probably be even more democratizing. [[Murmurs.]] Well, –the marginal guy in Sweden is 85% – I'm going to go to the themes that seem qualitative to me: First, the Housing Claimant's Registry. Six or four years ago it was 34,000 and now it's down to 15,000. Do you mean that those 19,000 homes were built or that they solved their problem? No, it means you've been deleted from the register, or because you've cleared the register, or because you've lost the job one of the claimants and you can't pay the housing anymore, or because you had to go back to the parents' house, or because you had to go out of the country looking for work outside. Today the list – as I said before – according to the data that was made available to me on January 26, was 15,226; the 10,000 were the applicants for public promotion housing. By the way, the fact given to us by Mrs. Counsellor that this year 2015 300 housing sites can be delivered ratifications that 10,000 peaks between 300 are thirty-four years, which is what I said was the waiting list for a protected housing in Galicia. Thirty-four years, all a record and all a great success! There are themes that may not have been understood, such as the lease bond. Look, we against the rental bond have nothing, and we could agree if it was a complementary element of the main element. I'm going to explain: the problem is that if you're here to replace the Housing Register with the rental bonus, you're planning to disappear the Housing Register. Today, the Council of Galicia, through the register, has a control over dwellings, their quality and their price; and that's what's going to disappear. And what this is going to be for is that when a person with little resources is going to rent a flat they tell him: it costs 450 euros, but don't worry that with the rental bonus you can stay at 300. And in the end, what the business does is what actually rents the apartment and not what it needs to rent it. So the terms will be reversed, and the payee will become different and not what he needed. Nothing is said in this plan, Counselor, of the 297,000 empty dwellings; I refer to something concrete that allows us to mobilize those 297,000 empty dwellings we have in Galicia. We don't say anything about a problem that is loan subsidies. By the way, I have here a judgment by the Madrid High Court of Justice condemning the Autonomous Community and renouncing the decision of the Director General of Vivenda, thus denying the extension of these subsidies. In short, gentlemen, one thing is a plan and another thing is a rabbit pulled out of a chisera. What we're trying to figure out here is if you present us with a real plan, a credible plan, or if you introduce us with a chisera and you pull out a rabbit to keep us entertained. We have to tell them, gentlemen, that we miss a lot of things. You didn't express here any kind of self-criticism, no sort of recognition of what you've been through these six years. The other day, in the act of presenting this RehaVIta Plan, the president of the board assumed and said: the board of Galicia in six years spent 76 million euros on rehabilitation – he said -. We know 68. But do you know the important part? That I had budgeted 207. So if 76 were invested, it means that 131 were not executed. We know that 139 have not been executed. For all this, ladies and gentlemen, we can't give this plan a blank check, we'll follow it closely. I hope you have a much higher level of execution than everything that's happened so far, but unfortunately, what we've seen so far is that of the budget of the Board in this matter almost 50% has not been executed. So let's hope that these 300 million euros of what you're talking about for the next six years – 300 million euros for the next six years is 50 million euros a year, so it's a remarkable reduction with which there were only a few years ago – at least this is going to be 100 percent. In any case, we'll follow up on the results, we'll evaluate it, and again, your facts will speak for you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u188	Thank you very much, Mr Bugallo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u189	...more than his words. I'm sorry I didn't answer anything else, but I don't have time.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u190	Popular Group, Castilian Broz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u191	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Bugallo, time is scarce for all, we know it, but then we'll continue to have a coffee arguing, that about this and other things we can talk a lot about. It's true that there are a number of things you say, and I don't know if in Sweden Mr. Amancio Ortega, for putting a name, or anyone who is in the situation or in similar situations of that person, is entitled to a public housing in Sweden, I don't know him, and I have to say it; I don't know exactly what he pays in taxes here. But it's just that you've been ruling -- if I'm not mistaken -- in this country of the forty and few that we've led to democracy. So, hey, in fiscal policy something should be able to do. Or is it also the blame of the PP that Mr. Amancio Ortega doesn't pay, or, who says he, any great fortune doesn't pay any other taxes? You did what you did was an important subject for these people: they could go to the public dining halls for free and, besides, those who had any child could charge the 3,000 euros from that Zapatero. You don't wake up, of course! That's what you did: social policy; social policy towards the rich. Home!, I think, first, you must sincerely help what you need most and then think of everyone, of course. But I think there are certain families and certain people who don't need those help, and what should be helping in any other way, right? Look, Mr. Pombo, I'm sorry to tell you, but you don't know the Mazoi project. Mazoi – you are sorry – the Mazoi project comes from the time of Don Manuel Fraga being president of the Union. Don't come to me to point out the picture, because it's true that you went to take the picture, eh!, and even at Tinería Mr. Quintana drew a little book – which I still must have out the house – took a book with pictures and television, of course, in the living room that was there. Home, in Lugo we know him very well. Tell me you're coming to take over the Tinería and Mazoi, Mr. Pombo, the lumens well know who it was who designed it and who it was who took forward those projects, please! [[Applause]] Now, said this, a year or so ago, two buildings from several homes were still handed over. By the way, it was in the photos that Mr. Mayor of Lugo among others, and also concelers – who were then concelers – of the BNG when he attended there and had been the former advisor to deliver them. I mean, look, it's not like that. And it doesn't mean you're satisfied, eh!, with what's being done in the Tinery. I'd like it to be all over now, but there's going to be a lot more than thirty-million euros invested. And I'd like them to be more, to be clear! And we will continue to insist that what is put on and to see if we can finish that in this plan. Because I don't know if they've noticed, but it's just that nobody here has talked about ARIS, about integral rehabilitation areas, nobody really cares about it, and even criticised that the renewal of urban spaces had been affected. Listen! is that normal is the recovery of urban spaces for the quality of life of people, of citizens living in them; the recovery of housing to put – because it comes in the plan – at the disposal of the people on the list, in the Register of applications for housing applicants. It's not to hand over to the Ortega Amancio or other people, it's for the people who are asking for housing. Or is there a problem? Because here, many times, they ask for rehabilitation, and when they bet on rehabilitation, they say no, it's something else. That's what you're here to say, Mr. Bugallo. The 11th day you asked for a plan, and today you say I don't want a plan anymore. Let's make it clear, because it's written here. Man, I know you have the gift of opportunity, and they're filled with ideas, so they just pulled it out the day before it was adopted by the board of directors. But this is what you put here, and it doesn't give data on how you want the plan, of course. You can logically say it's very critical, and surely it's very better; it's certainly better, as everything in life is better this plan. But then, as Mrs. Counsellor said, you bring...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u192	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u193	...solutions and proposals to improve it, you or anyone else. It's an open plan and I honestly, Counselor, I want to congratulate you and your whole team because it's proving that there's actually a project, you know where you want to go, and that's a way to find solutions to the problems they have right now in terms of living Galicia and all the Greeks. We actually have problems, but we know we're in good hands. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u194	Thank you very much, Mr. Castineira. The Environment, Territory and Infrastructure Adviser has the floor to close the debate.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u195	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, access to housing, in addition to being a constitutional income, represents one of the most basic indicators on the level of well-being, and that's why for this Government housing, as a basic social necessity, but also because of its economic dimension and the impact on employment, is a priority action. That's what we've shown in recent years with the policy we've developed in this field and with more than 278 million euros invested, which could be more than because of the breakdown situation that left the bipartisan in the Living Council for four years that he ruled. And so we will continue to demonstrate this in the future with the Galician Housing Plan 2015-2020, which, as I have detailed in my previous interventions, collects a set of measures that we will initiate immediately. [[Applause]] We know that access to a decent housing is a constitutional right for all, and at this moment it represents also a social need, which public administrations have an obligation to meet. We are aware that even more needs to be done, to increase our efforts, to work everywhere, to be able to offer the most suitable solution to every family and every person with problems to have a roof in the conditions that we all deserve. So, and with the objective of expanding coverage and measures to respond to this demand, we designed the RehaVIta Plan, which – as I said before – the main goal is to facilitate housing for families who need it most. Mrs. Martínez, you have at your disposal the Housing Plan, the RehaVIta Plan, on the consulting website. It is a plan that deepens those measures that we have developed in recent years with proven results, but that it also implements more resources and explores new lines of action, of which thousands of Greeks could benefit. They are measures such as the rental bonus – straight – intended to provide urgent and immediate support to people in need of assistance to take the cost of renting the housing, and, Mr Bugallo, compatible, compatible with other social benefits even for access to housing. And by the way, since I was talking about the plaintiff's register, I remind you of the 35,000 people registered in the plaintiff's register who left the two-party government. The bipartite launched a register of housing claimants protected with the DNI as the only registration requirement. And although it will not be an essential requirement for access to this aid to be in the process of defiance, this measure will undoubtedly allow many Greek families to remove this risk from themselves. Measures such as the partnership agreement with Sareb, so this public society will make available to the Galego Institute of Housing and Solo housing of its property, which will be intended for rent to families with limited resources. An agreement which – as I have already announced – will be signed next March. A new co-ownership regime, with clear advantages for adjudicators, which will more easily assume the mortgage rate corresponding to the percentage of housing acquired. I reported in my first intervention that they could buy at least 60 % of the housing, leaving the rest in the hands of the Galego Institute of Housing and Soil, but enjoying 100 percent, and within the period of housing protection they could be made with 100 percent of the property by paying the remaining percentage. Or a line of adjustments for the repair of rural infra-vivals in municipalities of less than 5,000 inhabitants, with accounts that could reach up to 8,000 euros per housing and which are intended for people without resources who own a home without minimum living conditions. Ladies and gentlemen, we are facing strategic planning, the strategic planning of our Community for the period 2015-2020, and we are talking about an economic amount of 600 million euros to be mobilised, of which 307 million euros are public approaches. But more than the economic figures, which are illustrative and significant, the most prominent and relevant of this plan are the social benefits that are expected for thousands of Greeks and Greeks, basically for the 152,000 citizens who will be given access to a decent housing in the next five years, and who are the direct recipients of the plan. But also for the 26,500 people who will get a job. In total, ladies and gentlemen, we speak of 178,500 people who will benefit directly or indirectly from the RehaVITA Plan. So we have before us a valuable planning tool that brings up important resources and sets guidelines and priorities to implement an orderly housing policy committed to the social needs of our community. With it, we want to overcome the difficulties that many families face to access a home, contributing to all citizens having a decent home. And with it we want to improve the quality of life of those Greeks who still have a home, it doesn't meet the desirable living conditions. Ladies and gentlemen, we are all well aware that helping citizens deal with the needs they face in their day-to-day lives is an obligation of administrations, of all public administrations. But we also know – as I mentioned earlier – that it is the responsibility of all to work so that the Greek families know the mechanisms and measures that different organisms make available to them. This administration offers solutions and answers to people with difficulty in preserving or accessing a housing. That's our duty, and we assume it. But we can all contribute. In order to help a person with difficulty, demagogy or invitations to discouragement. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to be strict, commitment, and involvement in providing information to those who claim support, because the task of avoiding the exclusion and protection of the Greeks requires the participation of all, both the administrations, political representatives, associations, collectives and the whole of society. I hope the RehaVIta Plan that I have just tabled in this House is the answer to most of the housing demands that the Greeks claim. Because the path of economic recovery that Galicia is starting, it will only be full if it goes hand in hand with the improvement of living conditions and the well-being of our citizens. I insist, ladies and gentlemen, as long as one of the only Galician families is at risk of losing their homes, we will continue to work to find solutions. Nothing else and thank you very much. [[Applause]] G.P. motion. of the Alternative Galaga de Left, at the initiative of D. Antón Sánchez García, on the action to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in connection with the rural development plan of Galicia 2014-2020
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u196	We continue with the development of the agenda, with point 3 of the motions, with the motion of the Parliamentary Group of the Alternative Galician Left, at the initiative of Mr. Antón Sánchez García. No amendments were tabled to this motion. Mr Sánchez, from the Parliamentary Group of the Galga de Left Alternative, has the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u197	In this motion on the Rural Development Programme, we insist on an issue that seems to us to be an opportunity to build a future in rural areas in this country under other bases. It is a question of renovating the policies that brought us here or of reflecting on whether there is a need for change; analyzing the state of rural life in our country, our agricultural environment, our forest sector, and making a collective reflection to see if policies need to be changed. To approve the Rural Development Programme as proposed by the Council is to continue the abandonment of the rural environment, ageing, increasing food dependence, losing the useful agricultural area; to continue the closure of agricultural holdings; to continue the dismantling of the public research, advisory and training system; to continue without developing and diversifying in potentially job-creating and wealth sectors; to send a document to Europe without analysing the impact of the end of the quota system in the dairy sector; and to continue with a model of forest and dairy monoculture in the country. That is what we are talking about if we send, as it was, the 2014-2020 Rural Development Program. Do you really want to go that way? And we are talking about a process of collective reflection, as we have insisted, since there is a principle of the European Union, claimed within the 414 observations sent to the Council, which speaks of the principle of partnership. And for us that is not a requirement, a bureaucratic procedure that must be carried out, but we give it the importance that is given to it in the European Union. It is important to involve all actors living in rural areas so as not to make a document alien to the interests of people living in rural areas. It is important that they be involved in the correct subsequent application of the measures they themselves collaborate in designing. It's also important to make policies in the medium and long term that don't depend on changing governments every four years. That process of collective reflection is what you are denying, what you have prevented, and what you now deny with a dishonest attitude. To talk about that one meeting in the summer of 2013, another in 2014 and a week of time to make contributions is a participatory process that is to miss the truth, to lie. There was no participatory process, as the European Commission notes, which requires that all documentation of that participatory process be passed on to it, a meeting schedule, conclusions documents, etc. In addition, all agricultural organizations, from the Labrego Union, Agricultural Unions, Fruga, ecological organizations, the forest sector, the Organization of Neighboring Mountains in Common Man... all report that there was no participatory process. Only the counsellor and the German Government say there was this participatory process. I don't know who's lying here. I think I'm clear. They're stealing the right to participate, because you're not interested in any future other than what we already have. You're clear on the model, you're clear that you want to go to a conversion of the dairy sector, to further reduce agricultural holdings. You don't care to follow the evolution of these past years of abandonment of rural areas and you won't change your policy of dismantling public systems that are so necessary, if we want to develop a knowledge-based agriculture. You don't mind leaving this country's rural without any expectations for the future, with the only expectation for the youth to emigrate, which is what's happening. Young people emigrate from the Greek countryside. You have to analyze if that's what you want. We therefore call for a process of public participation with the participation of all the agents needed to represent our rural environment, with agricultural organizations, environmental organizations, rural development groups, forest sector, mountain owners, etc., and to reflect on the priority measures for RDP 2014-2020. We're asking for something as basic as that. And we also claim certain non-renunciation. We want that document not to give up at least maintaining the current agricultural population. In the current document, it is renounced. We want to analyze the impact of the end of the quota system on our farms. We also demand that we have made ourselves targets to curb the reduction of the useful agricultural surface, because we believe that this is the minimum that must be done not to give up the future of our rural environment. So we think it's a motion that should have the support of all groups. It is a motion that simply asks for some of the issues which the European Commission itself calls for, and they will have to do or will have to change, they will have to hide. And I believe that the Council of Galicia is now thinking about how to conceal itself from the bureaucratic process of the European Commission, and not really to comply with what is asked of it, to do the participatory process. He's trying to see her push, as he does the traps, so that they can pass that procedure, which for the Galician Union is simply a bureaucratic process. We therefore call for the support of all groups for this motion. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u198	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u199	I'm going to start by expressing my absolute coincidence with the motion you present today, AGE. This is not the first time that I have expressed my agreement in this House with the proposals I have put forward for this motion. I have claimed, the last time on the occasion of the entire debate of the draft law on improvement of the land structure of Galicia, a strategic plan for agriculture. The five measures proposed by the motion, incorporating new people active in rural activity, strategic plan for the end of the milk quota system, maintaining the same budget for the Leader, increasing the budget to R & D+i and training measures and increasing 30% of the funds for the period 2014-2020 must be considered necessary to begin to remedy the abandonment of rural areas and the sense of having liquidated the agri-business and that Galicia is unable to produce more than a small part of the food it consumes. But I'm not going to talk about the defeat that the successive People's Party governments have produced in our country. Even the People's Party has no choice but to acknowledge and accept the failure of its policies when it comes to data on depopulation, fires, the abandonment of lands. All these evils are the result of their wrong active policies, such as the so-called – bad call – modernization of the dairy sector, which led to the foot of the horses, that is, to the agro-commercial monopolies, our agriculture. And, above all, passivity, inaction and looking to the other side for almost thirty years, and that with exclusive competences in agriculture, livestock and mountains. You will have no reason to oppose this motion, even if you have the votes of this House. They'll have votes, but they have no reason, because the votes don't give the reason. But if it is true – and I have said it more than once – that the votes are not anonymous, they belong to those who exercise them, individually and collectively, so none of you today may not feel individually and collectively responsible for the social, economic, labour and environmental situation of our farm. Establishing a rural development program in Galicia aimed at restoring agricultural and livestock farming, a forest-based activity with greater added value, would be the beginning of a policy change that rural has suffered since 1985. The strengthening of the human and economic resources of public institutions and instruments is essential to regain the nature of promotion and improvement of the agricultural extension agencies or the Glove Development Agency that you have liquidated. There is a need for jobs. I suppose we are not discussing the serious problem of unemployment in our country, and there is an opportunity to create them in rural areas, with a minimum of support. The potential of this country to produce quality food and with high added value needs the promotion of the agro-industrial complex, and for the beginning should focus on increasing agricultural active people, increasing policies in R & D+i, implementing social policies that stop the abandonment of rural by youth, such as promoting the establishment of public daycare centres, public compulsory education centres, cycles of agricultural vocational training, access to land or health centres. The future of agriculture is in support of family farms and the cooperative economy. The way in which we have been led by the policies of the People's Party of Rural Depopulation, to leave it in a position to be exploited by others as mining companies or agriculture and industrial gain is a betrayal to farmers and farmers, but also to the whole country. I don't count on them to rectify, even though I still hope they're actually starting to bet on our agricultural sector. Anyway, sooner than later, Galicia will change these policies and survive the years of the PP government, don't doubt it. But if there's anything right, it's – and now you're looking at it – that those who aren't going to forgive you for the damage they're doing to this country will be the Greeks and the Greeks. I call them to reflect on and the one that for the first time in the history of the People's Party defends Galicia's interests.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u200	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Paz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u201	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. First of all, to know the magnitude of the issue we are talking about, I think it is essential to make it clear that the Rural Development Plan has total funding, with European funds, more funds than the state, more than its own, of 1,186 million euros. So we're talking twice – or more than twice, almost twice and a half – the annual budget of the Rural Middle Council. We are also talking about EAFRD funds, which, as the Vice-President of the Union explained last week, given the convergence in economic data of the Spanish State and Galicia with the rest, with the European Community average, is likely to be the last time we have a plan in Galicia with a magnitude of this type of EAFRD resources. We are therefore perhaps the only opportunity to have European funding to develop rural policies. And what about the context of the Galician Board in front of the document you have to develop? What are the political actions you're going to do with these resources? Well, it makes the European Commission the most terrible of the ridiculous. It must be remembered that in the past period Galicia was one of the first regions, speaking in European terminology, which had been approved by the European Commission by its RDP, and now, with little luck, we will be of the last of all Europe's approval of a RDP because of the incompetence and neglect of the Union. Last November the European Commission's ruling on the German RDP, which focuses on several paragraphs, was known. First, in the clear and manifest incompetence of the Galician Union. Incompetence and antidemocracy, because the Commission itself tells you that it has not submitted itself to public information, to convene a meeting in July and to give organizations 4 or 5 days to bring suggestions to a crowd of 600 sheets is not public participation; incompetence because the Commission itself repeatedly reproves in its document to the Union which gives contradictory data, which gives false magnitudes, distorting the reality of the data. He also reproaches her that she has an excessively forest-friendly and productive view of the mountain. For example, the European Union is quite surprised that the Galician Union considers that priority for our mountain must be the species of rapid growth such as eucalyptus and coniferous. The Commission's own document says that these species are exotic in Galicia and that they need to be very careful about their proliferation because they have little natural value in Galicia and they manifestly contribute to raising the risk of forest fires, linked to monoculture. It also tells the European Commission that it does not address the main problem of its agricultural production system, which is the problem of land mobility. There are several of the criticisms that the European Commission is making about this matter, and it is more literally saying that " Galicia is invited to consider including the need to face the minifond as a problem in itself." It is clear that the Galician Union does not plan to use this RDP to solve the country's problems but simply to finance the municipalities, thus attempting to solve a supportive problem. It also tells the European Commission that we do not address the environmental problems of our country, and of course this situation has grave consequences for Galicia, first, because we are going to take very soon until mid-2016 to have all the instruments of the ongoing RDP, because Plan Leader, which is an important part of the Rural Development Plan – especially since you want to do new rural development groups – it is possible that until mid-2016 you cannot act on the territory and cannot act on our production model and on our economic model in rural areas. Therefore, we from the Galego Nationalist Block what we ask of the Galician Union, in line with the motion that sets out the Alternative Left Galician – which we will vote for – are using this last opportunity to combat depopulation, to increase the quality of life in rural areas, to diversify our production and to go towards the multifunctionality of our rural environment, to preserve the environment and above all to re-engineer rural areas, promoting the incorporation of new assets into agricultural activity. And, of course, this goes in the absolute opposite direction, as it makes it manifest...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u202	Thank you, Mrs. Paz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u203	...not the BNG, but the European Commission, of the design of the Galician Union. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u204	Thank you, Mrs. Paz. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr García.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u205	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, gentlemen. It is difficult, it is tremendously difficult – not to say impossible – to rectify when there is not even a mistake, and, by the intervention you did the other day – actually, we, of course, will support this initiative, as we have already discussed and supported several in this direction, but reading now there is a moment the intervention you did the other day and remembering, because sometimes even when you read in writing, it is much more cruel the thing – because it is really very complicated that this can get out, since the Counsellor is delighted with the whole process; she doesn't even recognise that they actually did the wrong things. I don't know anything about PDR, but if I am sent a letter from the European Commission saying, "The Commission services have evaluated the proposed Rural Development Programme and believe that it poses a number of serious problems and that they require clarification and revision of the proposal," I have no idea, but something is wrong, I say. And if they then send four hundred and I pick things that are actually bad and of what the advisor will say here was the normal and normal process and that I don't know what we scandalized, so, of course... and then one here, as you hear everything... but then you read about the paper and say, in fact, the counselor said that it was absolutely a normalized process, and it's more, that we were the example. I've also looked at the countries that have already approved the PDR, we've been talking about Portugal -- that is, we're not talking about Germany, of course, but there's another series of countries, another set of autonomous communities where... and the Counsellor has sent this and says that it's a completely normalised process and that there's absolutely nothing to worry about. What is the problem – Mrs. Paz has already said –?: "We have EUR 890 million here by 2020", another thing you lied about, because we have that money, we have the availability to have that money, but we're going to have to co-finance more; i.e., Junta will have to bring more percentage than in the previous period, which also said clearly and so also, I read about the paper, because you don't stop blundering and saying, but how do you say this sort of thing? But he also said so. And, therefore, 900 million euros, nothing despicable. You've already made a comparison here to Mrs. Peace, we've already done so; that is, the Rural Council, if you hadn't been by the PDR, you could almost dissolve, and I think there wouldn't even exist with the name. But we have 900 million, so let's put that similar to the previous period. First, what should we do? Are we using these 900 million euros well for that? What's... what does the PDR mean? The aid essentially of the second pillar, which is, let us not be mistaken, the aid of Community agricultural policy – first thing – therefore, you help that in some way the first thing they have to do is to help, complement the direct aid that farmers and farmers receive, because the European Union, understandably, considers that not only with direct aid does it fix a population in a given territory but it is necessary to complement them with another series of measures, with other things, so that even though these productions have a help for people still living there. And we're doing it? Are we doing well? Home!, the data are not very good, because if that was the objective it is clear that we did not meet it, and we have to say, therefore, that we would be doing something wrong until now, besides not comparing the period of the year 2007, the economic situation, with what it is now. So, bigger, somehow, the urgency of these funds. And the problem, Mr. Sánchez, of the partnership. In fact, if this was as simple as if they didn't even keep their forms, if it was as simple as convening five meetings, closing them up, five general assemblies and five meetings in each GDR and whatever you want to go ahead, what you want to give me and what you want me to say... but they don't even keep the forms. I mean, the Counselor has a problem because she doesn't even have the calls from the meetings, she can do it by way of trial, she's called up the following meetings and what she wants to follow the pace... and she's still coming the other day, she's also reading it now, putting the blame on some people who haven't contributed. But if you can't justify it, because there were only two meetings, one on the 2nd and the other on the 18th of July – it is also important to celebrate the union of the PDR. That of keeping shape would be a philosophical question even now, but what's the problem? The problem – and it's the main – is that we don't agree with where we want to spend those 900 million; and they don't match the agricultural associations, that something they'll know about this, don't match the GDRs – the rural development groups – that have worked these years and therefore they know what the weaknesses of the process are, where the failures are, and that we could correct, it doesn't match the forest sector in full, from the owners to those who sell the wood... what does it look like to put someone in this country to something, the whole sector...! It's unheard of. They all agree that it's not worth it either; they agree with all social agents...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u206	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u207	He only agrees with the counselor himself, because he didn't consult me, I don't think he'd have any disagreements with his office, because otherwise there would be discrepancies. So that's the main problem. And despite all this – unfortunately, once again – someone from the People's Party will come out here saying that, indeed, this is a dream of the opposition, a conspiracy. They'll probably tell us: I don't know how the previous RDP was done, and the process will be over. And we'll have a PDR that, among other things, will allow us – and I mean it – to spend 20 or 25 million euros each year to subsidize the municipal quarters to the municipalities to look after the party stages. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u208	Thank you, Mr. García. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs García Pacín.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u209	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, ladies. You were talking about saving your ways. I think here the only ones who can ask to keep their forms are the opposition groups, because look at us having debates in a lot of trouble! but here the insults are also on the order of the day. That would be to keep shape. [[Murmurs.]] You speak of complaints, of EU demands with regard to the document. I believe that what is requested is clarifications, and observations have been made, as have the rest of the rural development programmes of the different autonomous communities and even Spain. You, Mr Sánchez, again bring today a debate that is important and that we consider that we will continue to debate how many times it is necessary to try to convince it, but today you have not brought any novelty to the arguments you have already used in the past session – I think I remember that in committee and in plenary; in autumn there have been petitions – there have been motions – and bring the same demands; these demands that coincide with objectives, which, as you well know, are shaped or can be restricted to measures that are collected both at European and national level by guidelines that should not be escaped from the strategy granted, so we have fought. Because you claim that it is an opportunity – and we agree with it – that the Rural Development Programme is an opportunity, but we continue to fear, Mr Sanchez, in active policies, because we believe that rural people deserve it, and we are changing that reality. You claim that it is necessary to take stock, to make, objectively, a reflection on the current situation. This is based on the concrete actions and measures taken in the RDP, because, as a matter of fact, the third objective is to achieve a balanced territorial development of rural economies and communities, including job creation and conservation. That's why they're fighting. In the past... Mrs. Paz brought here and pulled out her breast of the biparty – it wasn't me who really remembered it – but in the current rural development program they are contemplating a series of measures that have their continuity, which have their coherence, which will continue to try to change reality, because depopulation, the desertification of rural areas and all those evidences that you here are also given in other communities, and there are all the active policies of the Rural Council. The Counsellor at the interrogation I think she has given enough data to convince you of the investments and budgets with which the next program will count to continue to fear changing this reality. But what we cannot agree with is the objectives that you propose, because, indeed, the voice of the Joint Group, I believe that we live in parallel realities, and while the People's Parliamentary Group is settled, with firm feet in reality and in every village, in every holding, helping our owners, the owners of exploitation... because Mr. Sánchez refers to his five proposals today – which are the same, as I say, in previous debates, and they have come to show themselves – to require a strategic plan for the dairy sector, but that dairy sector that you do not value, because you think you want or intend to return to the exploits of survival. You don't know how much effort the holders made by the German farmers and especially in the dairy sector to have a competitiveness; competitiveness that will continue to be better and more thanks to the new RDP, because with the bottom of the EAFRD, which is already greater than in the previous period... For yes, Mrs. Paz, it is a –I have the data here –... It's not a lie, Mrs. Peace, we start out of quite different amounts. Look, in the previous one, we started from 856 million euros of EAFRD, and now we started from 889.9 million euros, 1.4 more, and you claim not to... Look, in the help of measures that they have in relation to the mountain – which in other debates have been given, but today you haven't named it, at best in the next one – you did, you were starting from the RDP... Mr. Garcia, I haven't interrupted you, I know you have nothing to learn from me... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u210	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u211	But, look, in the mountain areas there were 58.8 million, and in the next RDP we have 70 million, 19% more investments.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u212	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u213	You put here a reality that really doesn't seem to exist, because in the 2007-2013 RDP you started from 28 and when we arrived the Group of the People's Party to Management of the Council increased by 29%, and it was actually 36 million euros the investments in that measure. I really think manipulating and twisting gives them very good, but the PDR is a strict document...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u214	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u215	...that counts all the blessings, and, if not, in time.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u216	Finish it, Mrs. García Pacín.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u217	Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u218	Thank you, Mrs. García Pacín. Author group of the motion, Gaga de Left Alternative Group, Mr. Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u219	Yes, of course, we have repeated it, and you have repeated the same lies debate after debate, only something of no importance has happened: that there has been a European Commission dictation with 414 comments; you say that in a regular process, as in other places. No, Galicia hit the record of observations, both in quantity and in quality. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Quantitatively and qualitatively, Galicia exceeds, except for the Balearic Islands, in a document that is demolient, which shows incompetence in the production – including in the provision of reliable data – the incompetence of not even including the analysis of the end of the milk quota system specified by the European Commission, etc., etc. Incompetence, desire and lack of a good approach to change policies and reverse this situation. You were saying that abandonment and aging are also taking place in other regions, countries... No, look, in the Spanish State only Castile and León exceeds the rates of abandonment and aging that Galicia has. Galicia loses every year on average, since Mr. Feijóo's rule, over 10,000 inhabitants, and we haven't invented it. Therefore, Galicia's problem is not the same as other regions, autonomous communities or countries. You miss the truth again when it says there's more funds. No, look, the State's contribution is down by 50%, and that means we have nearly 300 million euros less for the next period. You deny that there was no participatory process. There was no participatory process because you didn't want it, and, as Mr. Garcia said, you don't even keep the forms. Agrarian organizations called for a participatory process, the forest sector demands a participatory process, the mountain organizations in man-in-law demand a participatory process, the ecological groups too, and you are wrong that you are wrong, because for you, the PDR is a bureaucratic process. And what you have to say is if you're happy with the evolution of rural Galicia; if you're happy, you're still applying the same recipes, which are the same recipes that you carry in the next RDP 2014-2020; they carry the same recipes. Look, there are observations that are demolition. It says counseling... we have already reported that 130 square amortization is made in the Rural Media Council – 130! – we have reported that the services of the comarcas agricultural offices, research centres, etc. are dismantled. Well, of these 130, more than half are from comarcal agricultural offices; depreciation of squares. Well, the European Commission's document says that the proposed advisory system only ends up explaining policy measures and that there is no advisory system for innovation and research. Tell the European Commission, and for you it is the new production model based on knowledge. They'll come here and say they foster knowledge a lot. By knowledge, nothing; you are doing what you are doing is to give up a future to the Brazilian rural environment and give up the participation of all the agents who should be involved in the elaboration of the master lines. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u220	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. G.P. motion. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da María Carmen Acuña do Campo, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in relation to the construction of the new health centres committed to the electoral campaign, the assumption of their maintenance and the elimination of architectural barriers in them
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u221	This motion was presented with an amendment by the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block of Wales.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u222	For the defense of this motion, Mrs. Acuña has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u223	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies. In the past, counsellor neither resigned nor stopped again confused a socialist interpellation with a appearance at her own request, and, instead of answering our questions, preferred to talk to us about time. Or, in other words, once again, the Government of that president of the democratic impulse, showing an absolute contempt by this House and by the whole of the Greek citizenship, refused to explain to us the mess with the construction of the 63 health centers that he himself – the Feijóo himself – had committed for the period 2011-2014. But if someone has forgotten the intervention of the Health Counsellor, the truth is that we can summarize it in a sentence – by the way, the same sentence that I repeat every day – in that: "We're working on modernizing Welsh health." The one falling, ladies and gentlemen, with such deteriorating public health, who lives in a permanent collapse, the counsellor modernizing. For it will be better to stop modernizing and to meet the needs of sick people and the demands of professionals and professionals, because, in addition, we already have very clear what it means for Mr. Feijóo and the lady advisor to the word to modernize; i.e. to destroy everything there is to replace it with something smaller, worse and private, something PP. Socialists, like many of the municipalities affected by the socialists, like many of the municipalities affected and as thousands of Greeks and Galicians, we have the right to know that it happened with health centers, those that Feijó promised us; namely why Mr Feijó, Mr Feijó, made a commitment in the budgets of the year 2010 to make 51 new health centers for EUR 115 million and for the PFI model and, however, we have no right to know that it did not happen at all; why did he promise us, that why Mr Feijóo, because Mr Feijóo, why Mr Feijó promised us; why Mr Feijóo, why Mr Feijóo promised us; why Mr Feijóo, why Mr Feijóo, why Mr Feijóo committed himself in the budgets of the year 2010 to make 51 new health centers for EUR 115 million euros and by the PFI million euros and by the PFI for the PFI six years and, and yet he did not do none, and yet he did none; why he didn's not do none; why he did not do none; why he did that he did not do that he did that he did it; why he did not do that he did not do what he did that because because because because because because because because because because because because because because what he did what he did that the time when he did what he did what he did, the time for years, a year, a year, a year after, a year after year after, a year after, a year after, a year after, a year after year after, the year after, the year after, the budget in the year later in the Budget, in the Budget, including, also in the Budget in the Budget, including, in the Budget Laws, the Budget Laws, including, including the Budget Law Law Law of the Laws, the Laws, the Law of the Laws Laws, the Law of the Law of the Law Law Law Law Law Law Law Law Law Law Law Law Law Law Law Law Law Law Law Law Law Law Law Law Law Law Law Law Law Law, the Law Law Law Law Law Law Law Law Law Law Law Law Law Law Law Law Law Law Law Law Law Law Law Law Law Law Law Law Law Law Law Law Law Law Law Law Law Law Law Law Law Law, the Law, the Law Law Law, the Law, the Law, And, of course, all of them – the five and the three – still coming out well, with an end forecast in 2016. But it turns out, ladies and gentlemen, that the budgets that are going to be used to build these centres have a deadline, a deadline that ends at the end of 2015, so everything that is built after that date cannot be financed through that route. He made it and the advisor would have to explain to us very clearly, very clearly, why the health centres didn't start until this year 2015; that is, in the extension, when – I insist – they would be funded with European funds that had a deadline from 2007 to 2013; he explained very clearly why he had the money stopped, put in a drawer, all these years of crisis, and why he brings them out now that there are elections, but so late, that we no longer have time to spend them, and we will have to finish the health centers – if they get to do so – using their own funds. He made it, he'll have to explain how, having the need for health centres, having Europe's money to pay for them, he preferred not to do anything and wait until the election year came, even knowing that that expectation could lead to the loss of that money. But unfortunately, neither did Mr Feijó or, of course, the counselor explain anything to us, also refusing to explain how health centers that were bided in August 2012, yet they did not adjudicate until a year later. And it turns out that when they did so it was precisely the company Cofely – or Cofelý, as they prefer – that, as everyone knows, is immersed in a plot of corruption. You will have to explain how in five years, from 2009 to 2014, the only thing Feijóo did in relation to the construction of the committed 63 new health centres was precisely that, to adjudicate that Cofely company the maintenance and energy supply of 15 health centers for eight years and for 11 million euros. In other words, for the only one who rushed Mr. Feijóo went to privatize services and supplies even before he built the centers, and of course a company would say he was doubtful. Of course I ask myself: how will Feijóo explain to the counties of Barbados, of Cambre, of Culleredo, of Ares, of the Chapel and of Pontedeva that, although they are contemplated among those fifteen, they continue today without bidding or adjudicating? How will you explain that in the end you will lose the European funds that existed, what they had, to cost them? And how will you explain to them that, besides, the day these centers are made, they will have privatized conservation and maintenance, and in addition to a company involved in a corrupt plot? And how will Feijóo explain in Marín, in Gondomar, in Tui, in Oia, in Ourense and in Artexo that his anxious health center was made six years later, for just waiting for the election to arrive, when that work could have dynamized the economy of these municipalities by creating jobs? It's not done. Yeah, I insist that Feijóo preferred to have the money in a drawer, although now he has to return some of them to Europe for having run out of time. But what you will hardly be able to explain to all those municipalities to whom you promised a new center in 2010 is that we are already in 2015 and neither did them nor will you do; municipalities like Laracha, Narón, Cedera, Teo, Sarria, The Gudina, Ribadavia, Caldas, Salceda de Caselas, Vilarino, Ferrol, Melide, The Arousa Island, Bouzas, Ourense, The Coruña, Santiago, Milladoiro, etc., etc., etc. So up to 63. Well, in the face of this situation, ladies and gentlemen, in the face of this mess and in the absence of explanations by both the advisor and Mr Feijó himself, we socialists today put this motion, in which we simply ask for transparency; transparency with the construction of health centres. The municipalities concerned deserve it, and the citizens and the citizens of Greece also deserve it. Transparency and commitment to primary care, losing fundamental to our health system. We hope that you will count on the support of the groups, since – I insist – only seek to clarify the present and future of the new primary care infrastructures. For now, nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u224	Thank you, Mrs. Acuña. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u225	Good afternoon. In fact, the People's Party presented itself to the 2009 elections with a lot of promises. I think that in the morning we've already left here a record of how valuable the promises of the People's Party are. Unless they are – I insist – the hemerothecas because, if not, they would also be able to deny that these promises had been made; indeed, promises to create health infrastructures, health centres, that today none of these are any reality. We're in 2015, promises come from 2009, in some cases even before, and they're out of action. The BNG will support this Socialist Party motion, which we tabled two amendments in two respects in which, well, we wanted to highlight two themes that we believed were not complete enough in the motion. The first was that the work of expansion of the Salnes hospital was immediately initiated and that economic departures were enabled to make this a reality. Because the People's Party, after that promise to do more than 60 health centers, began making a joint bid of 15 health centers and the Salnés hospital. The president of Junta, Núñez Feijóo himself, said in June 2012 that he would allocate the savings obtained by the entry into force of the pharmaceutical cupage to the construction of health centers and the extension of the hospital in Salnés. He himself then marked the deadlines, which were that the contract files would be bided in July – I insist, in July – of 2012 so that the bids could be in September, with the objective that they would be sued at the beginning of November; all this in 2012. Well, in 2012, the Board of Trustees, in August, agreed that Sergas, in fact, had hired in conjunction with the drafting of the projects of management of work, maintenance and energy supply of 15 health centres and the extension of the hospital of Salnés. It was no less than trying to give more turnover to the companies that were planned to assist these infrastructures and that it was more convenient for them to access these packages. With which, it was no longer just construction, but more of it was mortgaged supply and work drafting projects. A year later it took the People's Party Government – nothing more and nothing less than a year – to assess this joint recruitment. It was released in August 2012, and it was expected until August 2013 for joint adjudication through the Directorate-General for Economic Resources; a joint invitation to tender which was effectively awarded to Cofely Spain for an amount of EUR 11 million. This summer of 2013, after this adjudication, leaders of the Galician Union – at that moment commanded by the then Sergas manager – have dedicated themselves to walking through the country's plots where, in theory, they would build these infrastructures, accompanied, of course, by the mayors and relevant local offices and already saying: this is immediate, it's already... – we're talking about the summer of 2013–. They promised then, in those visits that were resumed by the country, that in the first quarter of 2014 they would begin works immediately, works that we are in February 2015 and that are in the situation that described the motion's proponent, Mrs. Acuña. Promises and deadlines once again met and those who add the uncertainty of the neighbors and neighbors to those who were promised those infrastructures because they are necessary to be able to provide quality health care and that today are neither expected nor expected. That is why to include in the amendment the theme of the Salnes hospital, a hospital and a promised, committed enlargement, and that today is a promise, because with all these aims I have just listed, it turns out – finished, Mr President – that none of these infrastructures appear with budget allocations in the 2015 budgets. That is why we also tabled an amendment asking that we be explained once and for all if the involvement of this Cofely company in Operation Punica – which investigates the irregular financing of the People's Party – has something to do with these delays. These are two amendments that we believe will improve the Socialist Party's motion and I hope they will be approved.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u226	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u227	Listening to this debate, anyone understands why today the People's Party voted against the Proposition of Institutional Advertising Law. Obviously, we are in the campaign and everything is worth using as electoral propaganda. And so this motion comes very close at this time, after President Núñez Feijóo, taking advantage of the presentation of the evaluation of the Sergas Strategy 2010-2014, had announced again – as he did in previous electoral campaigns – a rain of millions, this time to modernize the Welsh health infrastructure, raising, yes, the list to the terms of electoral prepackage and announcing 20 billion euros for the creation of health centres. What else makes most of the goals of the 2010-2014 Strategy not carried out? What makes the Primary Care Improvement Plan, consensual between the Government and the unions, is in an undeveloped drawer? What happens that the largest primary care waiting lists in Galician history have been created in this legislation or that in recent months health centres and hospitals have been targeted for flu-affected and pneumonia causing third-world patient scenes in hospital corridors? None of this seems to matter to the Council officials or the president of the board, who yesterday were reluctant to talk about the commitment of the Greek Government to the care of the patients. They should be asked to agree to this commitment to the health of patients affected by hepatitis C, to see what they think. And they talk, in addition, about unintelligible things; that way of speaking to cover up the truth and disguise reality. And they tell us about patient care optimization. We save and we'll treat better; with less, we make better health. That's the theory of the People's Party. As we enter the motion, all we can say is that to start Mr. Núñez Feijóo and the Counsellor should agree on how many health centres they will actually take forward this year. The reality is that of the 63 health centers that announced the bomb and plate in the period 2010-2014, only one third of them were built and that of the 15 of those who spoke for the year 2015 there are only works started in 2, and of the rest there is nothing. And the most serious thing is that we're talking about dedicating the EAFRD funds to their construction, which have to be justified – as the previous spokespersons have said – by the end of 2015. And since we're already in February and how little advanced these projects are, we're very afraid that the deadlines will not be met, that we'll have to return the money and we'll run out of health centers. The same situation or much more serious is – as has already been said by the BNG spokesman – that of the Salnés hospital, the promised enlargement once and for a thousand times, also funded by EAFRD funds and after the Town Hall has provided the land and the work continues without beginning. The lack of momentum for planning and a defined project and the paralysis in which the current direction of the Council and Sergas can lead to the loss of these funds. We must demand that parliamentary explanations be given on the start dates and the contents of the works; that once again be clarified how many and what health centres will be going to be carried forward with the EAFRD funds and define the method of financing and the works contracts, since funding has been talked about through the private initiative, although we assume that after the failure of this formula in the new hospital in Vigo will be completely wasted. Time is over; therefore, I just want to say it's important to resume the Primary Care Improvement Plan and consensus with health workers' representatives and professional schools. For my part, I shall announce, moreover, my vote in favour of this motion and my total agreement with the amendment tabled by the BNG. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u228	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. Parliamentary Group of the Alternative Glaga de Left, Mrs Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u229	Thank you, President. It's about primary care again and it's about doing it when the situation we discussed in committee last week is getting more and more worrying. Last week we were discussing the situation of the continuing points of attention, and I myself warned in my intervention that they have been paying attention since the beginning of the operation of these emergency services that are not of primary importance in many cases and probably the fruit of their geographic dispersion and the length of the specialized care points. We were also talking about the conditions under which we work at these continuing points of attention, the lack of materials. And I was referring to the lack of adequate clothing to work abroad or assist in traffic accidents, but also to the lack of materials as well as some channel or probes, by setting an example. They sometimes also face serious emergencies, vital emergencies, with virtually no sufficient materials. And the Junta, far from bragging as much as they did yesterday in the presentation of this Sergas Strategy Assessment 2014 – in which I have been too – should really work and sit down with the health care people to see what needs they have. It is obvious that, in addition, it must be our health system that assumes those continuing points of attention, its maintenance. It is paradoxical that they do not want to assume their competences precisely the same ones that, on the other hand, reduce competence to the municipalities with the reform of the Law of Local Regime bases, which usurps and remains sovereign to the smaller entities and therefore to the people; all at the service of the privatizations of public services – it is worth redundancy –. And yesterday, in that great publicity act – because it was nothing else – where vague data was given to explain how and where those data came out – I hope, the truth, that the appearance here, in this House, is a little better, a little better, a little better quality – the Director General of the Galician Health Service said that this government had set up 20 health centers and that there were 11 in construction, nothing more and nothing less; for a few minutes later he heard how Mr. Feijóo lowered the figure to 20 open and 7 in construction. They don't agree with each other either. I've actually been there and I've taken good note. They don't seem to have any idea of the basics of the Health Council; they don't agree even in the health centers that are being built. The reality is they opened a few that have been pending for years and that – oh, by chance! – they opened them in the full campaign of autonomy in 2012. But the reality is, they didn't build one of those 63, not even the 15 they promised, who budgeted year after year and didn't run in budgets. And only at the last minute, when we already have a real risk of losing European funds, they started to bid some, build – only now – and announce – oh, causality, again! – in the full electoral campaign. That's their show policy, populism in its pure state, that of the People's Party. The reality is that the primary care budget has been cut since the arrival of the People's Party: 297 million euros less since 2009, 20.69% less resources for primary care. That's your investment in primary care, that's the inheritance you'll leave to the incoming government. You can already use the vocabulary you want. This year they cut in the repair of health centers. Yesterday they also boasted in that publicity act about how health centers were. Di Feijóo says that we're going to be all the Greeks and Greeks near a new or renovated center, built, but cut 67.74% in the matches dedicated to repairing or renewing the health centers, only in 2015. Therefore, then, they can prepare the infographics they want, but the goal is quite clear: to damage Greek public health, to let everything that doesn't give business die, and what if you give business prepare it to privatize it. In this sense, we are going to support this non-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u230	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mr Núñez Centeno.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u231	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies. Mrs. Acuña, you present a motion with 5 points, and then it turns out that you don't refer to it, basically and only to the first two. I don't know if you didn't get the ten minutes. I'll try to answer the five points in five minutes, and of course it'll cost me a job. In response to his questioning two weeks ago, the advisor answered him and explained in detail the current construction situation and put into operation of the 15 health centres committed to this legislation and with updated dates, I will not repeat it. I see you care a lot about funding, and I have to say that you also explained it to Mrs Mosquera, the investment planned for 2015, of 20.3 million Feder funds, finalists, that, as a novelty with regard to the intervention that day, I mean that they are already fully incorporated into the budget, in addition to 5.3 million gifted from the initial budget. Because sometimes they have problems finding the papers, that's on the 2015 budget page. By 2016, the centres that are not finished – the advisor said – will be financed from own funds, which is a fact that is collected in the Feder's own rules, which provide six more months to complete the works, whenever this is done with own co-financing funds. I would like to remind you, Mrs. Solla, that since 2009 20 health centres have been completed and implemented, 9 have been reformed, and even on these last dates two consultants have been launched: that of Cotobade and that of Mera, in Ortigueira. Besides, we could also talk about the new hospital Álvaro Cunqueiro, Vigo, the new hospital hospital building in Ourense, the end of the reform and extension of the hospital in Coruña, which already has new emergency services, from Salnes... we could talk about a lot more. With regard to the second point of the motion, which speaks of 63 centres, logically, when the current health centres are completed, the construction of new centers will continue, prioritising the most necessary and always assessing the budgetary possibilities. You do not forget that you are ruling with EUR 2 billion less per year, and will be done according to future economic needs and possibilities. You have a third point in the motion concerning the local Covenant and the maintenance of health centres and the CAP by the Council. The local Covenant was signed in 2009, between 2007 and 2008 and 2009, to incorporate the maintenance of these centres. In those three years, not a single center was incorporated. On April 26, 2010, Sergas assumed 26, April 29, 2012, another 25, and in addition there are the 20 we talked about before. In the end, the Galego Health Service assumed the title and expenses of 72 health centres. The Law on the Rationalization and Sustainability of the Local Administration, Law 27/2013, collects health-related competences by the autonomous communities and provides a five-year term from 2014, assuming progressively 20 % of the annual management of health services. If we recognize and are concerned about the importance of point 4 of your motion. We think removing architectural barriers in all the public health centers in Greece is necessary. But we believe that we cannot enable an extraordinary share in the budget without knowing what problems and accessibility are really the ones that exist. We would agree, and we would urge the Council to conduct a study aimed at identifying the existing architectural barriers in the Greek health centres, with the ultimate aim of progressively eliminating them. Many have already been eliminated. A few months ago, I was called upon to be present to state the accessibility problems of a health center in my county, and I have to say that, within a short period of time, after the complaint, architectural barriers were eliminated. And to finish, the fifth point, the recovery of the Plan of Improvement of Primary Care drawn up by its government. I've told you on several occasions in the commission that we are not plan supporters. In the People's Parliamentary Group we value the facts, and primary care has developed in recent years an enormous increase in its capabilities, done by which we congratulate all staff, thanking them for their dedication at such difficult times for all and for all. I'm going to give you data and figures: we've improved the interrelationship between primary and specialized centres; you know, the electronic prescription has been implanted to 100 %, reducing 3 million administrative consultations; we've improved access of primary physicians to complementary tests; we've improved the technological allocation of many health centres; we've doubled the surgery that takes place in primary care; we've started the rapid pathways; you know the distress that professionals have experienced when we had a severe oncoholic disease and we weren't able to get them to be treated quickly; telephone consultation, which took more than one million in November and is better accepted by professionals and patients; generalization of electronic medical history, Janus, to 100 % of consultations; and the increase in the resolution capacity of CAPs, reflected on a continuous decline in the number of emergency care – you know, 90,000 less in the last five years – hospitals. Of course, ladies and gentlemen, it's not everything that's perfect, that there's trouble on time, and that we're aware that this happens. That's why we want the Council to continue to improve the conditions...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u232	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u233	...and primary care equipment, dimensioning it in a way sufficient to prevent these evases as far as possible. Again, I would like to thank you from the People's Parliamentary Group for some professionals who, despite the reduction in their wages, their brats and some who are more drawn from the situation, are able to maintain their commitment to the health of all the Greeks and the Greeks. I told you, Mrs. Acuña: we're not on plan, we're much more facts and realities. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u234	Thank you, Mr. Núñez Centeno. Motion author group, Mrs. Acuña.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u235	Thank you, President. First of all, I would like to thank the groups for their support and to announce that we will accept the amendment proposed by the Parliamentary Group on the Galician Nationalist Block. As for the People's Party, I'm going to tell you that you shouldn't support a government that, by waiting for the election year, has left the health centres without doing it; it has left 21 million euros of European funds in a drawer. Millions who would have had to be used to build these new centers, to dynamize the Greek economy, at least in those 15 municipalities, and to avoid getting many people out of unemployment. You shouldn't support a government that in six years the only thing he did was privatize the centers even before he built them, and in addition to a company that's immersed in a plot of corruption. If we first wondered why Mr Feijó would have to be here for these six years by telling lies and changing messages, now we also wonder why the People's Parliamentary Group has not to support this motion, so as not to support this first point where we ask the House to immediately report on the dates of initiation and completion of these 15 health centres and on the budget cuts to be financed. We have already had a first – we thank you very much – of the honourable Member: at last they pulled the millions out of the drawer and already incorporated them into the budgets. We're saved. I don't know why they won't support the second point, where we ask for a planning of how, when and in what order the remaining 63 health centres will be built. The honourable Member of the People's Party said that there were no resources, however, yesterday Mr Feijóo's bombo and plate advertised that budgets for health would increase to the infinite. Well, there'll be the resources. I don't know why they won't support the request that we comply with the local Covenant and finally release the municipalities from a competition that doesn't correspond to them and that it also makes it impossible for them to meet. Those who say they're missing so few, because they assume those who are missing. Besides, if you really, ladies and gentlemen, we're already out of the crisis and leading growth across Europe, you can't vote against removing these architectural barriers in health centres, in the first level of health centers. By the way, if you have such a good hand, I invite you to visit the street health centre, to see if we can solve the architectural barriers. Of course, you shouldn't vote against recovering the Primary Care Improvement Plan. Listen to these professionals, that you don't get tired of saying they're so committed and they're crying for the primary plan to be recovered...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u236	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u237	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u238	Thank you, Mrs. Acuña. Next motion. G.P. motion. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr. José Ramón Val Alonso, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in connection with the Sardinian Management Plan for the next three years
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u239	This motion has been tabled with an amendment by the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u240	Mr. Val has the floor for the defense of the motion.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u241	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon to all and to all. Today we present this motion to speak of one of the hundreds of problems the fishing sector has in Galicia; a motion to speak, in particular, of the Sardinian Management Plan and of the consequences it is already having in the sector itself, and of what it is going to suppose for a punished already fleet of the siege. And we present it with little confidence that it goes forward, despite the fact that this is being one of the battle horses of the sector itself. And I say we present it with very little confidence that it will go forward, because, given the answers of the advisor himself in the past full, and even the position that the People's Party is taking in other similar initiatives that we have already debated in this House, where it is able to vote against exercising its own powers in fisheries, we believe that again it will avoid being belligerent with the Government of the State, although with that position it clearly harms our fleet. And we say that it clearly harms the Greek fishing sector because the decisions that have been made in recent times are not fair, they are not the same for everyone. It started last year with the distribution of fishing opportunities for pelagic species, such as garden and jurelo, on the basis of the so-called historical criteria, given the paradoxical situation that to us, to the Greeks, with more fleet than the other three communities of the cantabria together – that Asturias, Cantabria and the Basque Country – corresponds only to 25 % of the fishing opportunities of the yard, with all that it means, while other communities with only one third of our fleet carry only 50% of the fishing opportunities of this species. And what happens to this Sardinian Management Plan that was published in August and which has been modified already in January of this year is practically the same as the previous one: the decisions taken are tremendously unfair to our fleet. We can understand and understand the need to work on the establishment of a joint management plan with Portugal, to prevent Brussels from coming to establish a TAC on this species, but in what if we disagree deeply is how to do it. We cannot understand how this so-called Sardine Management Plan in Iberian waters – I repeat, in Iberian waters – excludes from its scope a very important area in number of discharges, which is the area called VIIIb, just where the Basque boats fish and where there are discharge data, by setting an example, in 2013, in this area more than 14,000 tons of sardine. You've noticed that it's practically the same thing that we have as a whole of the Spanish and Portuguese fleet to fish for this year 2015, within this Joint Management Plan for Sardinia, which we have 19,000, practically the same thing that was fished in 2013 in that area VIIIb. So, as much as the leaders of the People's Party defend him, this doesn't make any sense; it makes no sense that some people can fish indefinitely, without any kind of restriction. The Greek ships, in principle, have already closed the sardine fishing vessel until March and, when that fishing vessel is opened, they can fish, at best, 1,000 tons a week. What does that mean? So it means that our ships can fish, at best, between 2,000 and 3,000 kilograms of sardine all week, when they can previously come and download 7,000 kilograms of sardine per day. A real misery, gentlemen of the People's Party! And the German Government clearly refuses to defend our fleet, because this can also have tremendously negative consequences, and it is already having them in the short term on the economic profitability of fishing companies. You can give the case that if Brussels enters to regulate this species and establishes a TAC. The only ones who will have historic rights will be the Basque ships, which are the ones that are fishing without any kind of limitation. It seems incredible that no one in the German Government or anyone in the People's Party, including his voice, Mr. Balsairo – who we all know is an expert in this matter – can see this reality. That is why we demand the inclusion of zone VIIIb within the scope of that management plan. It is not an occurrence, Mr Balsairo, first, because instead of having only 19,000 tons for this year we could add those 14,000 or 15,000 tons that are coming fishing in zone VIIIb, which would mean having a total of 34,000 tons for the entire Spanish fleet. No one would be discriminated against and we would demand equal treatment for all fishing communities. And secondly, because we would prevent anyone from taking advantage of fishing opportunities without any kind of limitation and accumulating historical rights. This is the normal position that the Greek Government, elected for that, should defend the interests of our country and those of our productive sectors, but unfortunately little can be expected from those who are preaching before the Government of the State, putting above the interests of the Greeks the interests of their own party. In the past he set a clear example for the Counsellor, Mr. Balsairo, and I will repeat it to you today. How would you face this year 2015 if you were the owner of a siege boat who, first, knows that it has closed the sardine fishing until March and knows that when that fishing vessel is authorized it will be able to work at a maximum of 2 or 3 months with a quantity not exceeding 2,000 kilograms of sardine a week? How would you face this same year, Mr. Balsairo, if you were the owner of that boat and saw that in that large distribution of fishing opportunities for the garden that you defended last year, along with the counsellor and the Government of Greece, they would have touched you 6,000 kilograms of barley for the whole year and that, after that, and despite that make-up they did yesterday with that increase on the quota of the jury, do you know that you're going to have a very rare amount of interest for this year too? How would you face this year, Mr. Balsairo?, would you confront him with illusion?, would you think it is possible to bring forward a fishing company with 10 or 12 workers, like a fence boat? I think it's no use for you to come and defend that since they govern, fishing quotas increase, because, look – even I won't discuss it – they grow in one and decrease in another, as always, depending on scientific criteria. But, apart from that, the problem is how you share those fishing opportunities, and they do it in an unfair way, Mr. Balsairo. What you do, what the Government of the People's Party does, is once again to reward those who have not been responsible in recent years and who have not been self-regulated with daily tops. And that's what the fence sector was doing in Galicia, self-regulating with daily tops of these species, downloading up to 7,000 kilograms of sardine per day and 6,000 kilograms of jurelo. We believe that we can improve the situation, Mr. Balsairo, and so today we present a clear and concise motion, with very clear points: First. To address the Central Government and to require it to carry out immediately a modification of the Sardinian Management Plan so that all fleets of the state dedicated to the fishery of this species have the same standards, without any privileges above others, and that area VIIIb is included within the scope of the Sardinian Management Plan, first, to avoid such discrimination and, second, that there is no possibility of being able to fish without restriction and of being accumulating historic rights before the possibility that in future Brussels will establish a TAC, because we will clearly become the major harmes. Second. It is very easy to come here, as you have come a few months ago, to defend that these demands are assumed as their own, but then when the management plan is approved, none of these issues are reflected in that document. And a third point, which is to go to the Central Government to ask it to negotiate fishing exchanges with other states that favor our sector to increase fishing opportunities. I believe that these are tremendously reasonable issues that the sector is demanding and that it is demanding urgently, because the situation is already unsustainable. Waiting for the support of all groups, that's all in this first round.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u242	Thank you very much. Intervention of parliamentary groups. Joint Group, Mrs. Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u243	I will not vote against the motion presented by the Socialist Party, understanding that it is a claim of the fleet of the siege, at least an important part of the fleet of the siege, but not of all. Having said that, I would like to draw attention to certain issues in order to try to complement the motion, so that we are not only talking about immediate issues, fears and urgent demands, but also, if possible, the design of a fisheries policy for the art of the circle that is more complete. Because it cannot be obvious that there is a part of the Greek fleet of the siege, as the spokesman of the Socialist Party has already said, in particular the one that works in zone VIIIb, which we must also protect; a fleet that has lost quota, 71.9%, and which sees its fishing positions undervalued in the area. But also because fishing is important, it's also important to fish so you don't have to sell 30, 40, 50 or 20 cents of fish, as it's already happened, for example last year, with the jury. They don't fix prices with more or less prices; they're arranged with a fishing policy that encourages and directs the policy of first-sales prices and withdrawal prices, which is not done by the desire of the Fisheries Council. On the other hand, this fleet is subject to penalization and punishment in other species which are not the fault of the fleet itself, but as a result of a lack of fisheries policy both of the Board of Galicia and of the Government of the State, which do not provide the sanctions of the yard and other species. Today, a headline in the media announced a reduction in quota in the Jury fishing. Finally, we are faced with a problem that is not only of political or constitutional opportunity, but of a structural problem that is not solved either by patches or by large propaganda announcements. So, although my proposal for enlargement which I present in the amendment does not solve these problems, it seeks to outline some measures, and which, while still collecting the claims of a part of the fleet seeking Greek, is also preserved the possibility of fishing other than in tonnage and crew is practically the same. At the same time, they must lay the foundations for making the fleet of the siege profitable, for, without profitability, there will be only scraps, which I think no one wants in this House. So it begins to be urgent for the Council to present a strategic plan for the fleet of the siege. This is not the case, which is why we tabled this amendment, from which we expect acceptance by the proposed group. Our amendment adds three points to the initiative, to the points collected in the motion: that no resolution or modification of any plan for the management of the Iberian sardine by the central government in the dependent ICES areas prejudices any segment of the fleet of the Greek siege operating in any of the ICES zones; that any analysis of the price of the sardine's sale and its profitability should be carried out, setting out the measures necessary for it to have a price that will make the fishery viable; and that the profitability of the fleet of the siege also depends on the catches of other species which are currently subject to restrictive penalties, if, for example, of the yard, so that the existing fines must be eliminated...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u244	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u245	...–I ended up on it to make the fishing activity of the fleet of the siege profitable. In short, it is planned – and it is not always the horse of events – a fishing policy for the siege that does not discriminate against any of our fleets. That is our proposal and we hope that the Socialist Party will accept this amendment. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u246	Thank you very much. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. Mr. Rodas Chapel has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u247	This one's gone and that one's gone, and everyone's gone. Galician without ships remains with those who can make it. [[Applause]] This could be the updating of Rosalía's poems on a significant date as today, but sadly, it points to its fair point, the reality of our fishing sector that this plan of recovery of the sardine reflects dramatically: a country, Galicia, with a government that, rather than being defending it, is just collaborating for its destruction. And it comes to this plan as a state proposal, when BNG was already demanding the need for a sardine recovery plan, because we were all aware in conjunction with the sector that we had a very serious problem of stock depletion. But it's not something we've invented, but it's already come from back there, since 1999, where Manuel Fraga already met the state's criteria for establishing drastic measures like this. And then, as I said, that recovery plan for the years 2000, 2001 and 2002, had already been put in place, where, by the way, there were accompanying measures – nothing to do with these – in which, as you know, in October, the decision of that subsidised unemployment was taken, and today the only thing published was the order in which shipowners were allowed to have an exit, while the crews were literally taken. Ten years later, the answers of this advisor are that I didn't find you that there was a model in Sardinia. So we're reflecting the drama of our fishing, where this plan shows, as it does not, a distribution model that goes down, that pulls down the ground, that criterion that you yourself defended from historical captures in the distribution, for example, of the yard. So here neither socio-economic criteria nor regulation nor historical captures nor areas. The criterion of 3,000 kilograms/week/season is applied linearly here. So once again, we see how the Administration, like the Government of Greece, are not committed to defending our sector. It is one more sector in the Sardinian Plan that directly affects the siege and directly affects other minor arts that I will soon expose, but, as I said, it leaves on the ground another sector, as at the time the drag was left, when the implementation of the ITQs was possible, and now it leaves the circle and in the same way it leaves the way and other minor arts. It happens exactly as it happens in the garden fishing. Here I have already set the example of the division that exists for the siege; this time I will set as an example the distribution of the contained arts, and I will only set an example of how this time the distribution by provinces is made: 55 biscuit boats account for 3,046 tons, while 123 corrupt ships account for 860 tons. See, ladies and gentlemen, like us, while we have the right to be able to catch a kilogram of garden...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u248	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u249	...the biscuits have the right to fish three pounds. And so you could continue to set an example of how the jury is divided and how it has increased in zone IXa, how the quota has increased and how it has decreased in VIIIc and how it is transvasive to try to balance the poverty that corresponds to us in VIIIc. But maybe you could give us an example of the mouthpiece, where this year we were 1,18%, 53 tons, and today we've got it totally exhausted, when two years ago it was 10,000 kilos a day. Or, like not, the way, that wonderful management to which 200 tons correspond, and if one divides linearly between the number of boats and the days of activity from May to October...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u250	Mr. Wheels, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u251	...you'll see it's only worth 6.29 kilos a day. Consider the example of fishing management, defence of our sector by the Government of Galicia...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u252	Thank you very much, Mr. Rhodes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u253	...which has designed a strategy of literal abandonment and liquidation of what our fishing sector is. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u254	Parliamentary Group of Alternative Left Gallega. Mr. Fajardo Recoso has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u255	Good afternoon, everyone. The truth is that the situation brought by the fellow BNG is a perfect allegory of the sector situation in Galicia, fading out for lack of food, waving by a People's Party who sold the sector for party interests that are difficult to explain to the whole of the Galician fleet. It's neither a decision nor an interpretation of this group, of Alternative Left Glaga, the sector itself and the Association of Seafarers addressed in writing to the president of the Board requesting an urgent interview, telling him clearly that they wanted to express to him in person the circumstances that are causing the risk of the disappearance of the sector in Galicia. Of course, Mr. President, I don't think he had a good time receiving them, surely because he's on his way to those countries that he likes so much: for Colombia, for Mexico -- that kind of regular visits when there's a problem. We have the president most able to escape through the footsteps of these problems and always get close to those paradise places, which are soon able to criticize previous governments. But in fact, in December the People's Party accused the opposition of not agreeing with a proposal that literally proposed the need to accept as its own the proposals of the Sectoral Commission of the Circle of Galicia. And it turns out that these proposals were not defended by the People's Party in the State; none of the proposals are in the plan to manage this fishery. So once again, the People's Party has that double rank, that double way of doing politics -- to come to this Parliament and tell the things that you want to hear from the sector to then sell the sector where the decisions are made. And this sector sale means in many cases that many of these companies can disappear. And you will have the People's Party to explain how, whenever we talk about the fisheries sectors in Galicia, you are harmed by fishermen and fishing companies in the Basque Country. What kind of party agreement power that whenever we have to negotiate fishing quotas Galicia is losing with respect to the Basque Country? What are we Galician currency? Galicia does not deserve a government that blinds its sectors and that is capable of undermining our interests simply by a surely supportive agreement that allows all the pesetas of the People's Party to continue to maintain their jobs in that kind of policy model where it is important to keep the job even if that means leaving at the stake sectors as important as the Welsh fishing sector. So we share and we are going to vote in favour of the Socialist Party's proposal because we believe it is necessary that a sector as important as the Greek siege should not be attacked in those three species which are fundamental to their survival. The downside in the corners of the sardine, the downside in the situation of the jurelo, despite that new announcement that it's just a little stretch, or the downside in the corners of the sardine suppose that this sector will only be able to work four months during the year, and all that by controlling the captures; four months to maintain industry, to keep jobs and therefore to be able to continue. Can any company in this country continue with only four months of work? Certainly not, and here's a big hit, which is the mariner, the fisherman, who lives in a difficult situation, who has a complicated job and which is also now facing a poor situation because he has no fishing capacity. But, moreover, they are forgotten when there are unemployed; they are forgotten because fishermen are not present at the negotiating tables, just as neither are the nets present when the fisheries are closed, nor do they receive any state aid. So once again, the People's Party is able to breach its agreements, tell the sector one thing and approve another in Madrid, and you will have to explain why this is so, unless the agreements cannot be counted. But what's strange is that this country is always losing when it negotiates the People's Party, because the People's Party doesn't give up the Greek people just to have a small political income. We are therefore going to support the proposal because it is absolutely necessary at this moment of crisis and of a limited situation for the Greek fishermen and for the fence sector in Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u256	Thank you, Mr. Fajardo. People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Balsairo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u257	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Val, you're worried about area VIIIb. I'm going to leave an ICES report to the Madam President to pass it on to her. In fact, zone VIIIb is not put into the Iberian sardine management plan, but if you can catch sardine there, and it's good that you find yourself and so you already have one less problem in your motion. And before that, I also wanted to say a previous question. First, I have to tell you that the Government does not approve a plan to manage the Iberian sardine because one day it rose in the morning and wanted to legislate, but rather to approve it, firstly, thanks to the bad biological situation of this resource, which so certify all reports, and with the objective of achieving its recovery; secondly, to prevent Europe from unilaterally imposing a TAC. This would, as you know, assume a very aggressive cut in the chances of fishing in sardine, and you would have to see what you would say later, with reductions that could reach even 20%. And, too, thirdly, this measure slowed Portugal, which intended to self-allocate 70% of this quota, and today, without a joint management plan with Portugal, would be our fleet in clear disadvantage, and you know this, what happens is that they don't mean it. The truth is, you've got me a little confused. You are asking us precisely to work for the board to include the proposal of the Galician Fisheries Council... there are those who confuse the night and the day, and you think you're confused at 24 hours. [[Mr. Fajardo Recouso pronounces words that are not perceived.]] [[Applause]] He said he asked us for the proposal from the Galician Fisheries Council, but now you ask us what he previously refused. You and your group voted against when in this Parliament the People's Party brought a non-law proposal with this same request. Welcome, you've already got one less topic in the motion. Welcome, finally, even if it's three months late. You and your group voted against this same proposal on 3 of 12 of 2015. And I'll remind you of what you said at that time – see the Session Diary. BNG said supporting the proposal of the Galego Fisheries Council was an act of pure political cynicism and pure propaganda, and the Socialist Party, yourself, Mr Val, said supporting the position of our pros in the siege was solemnizing the obvious. With which, you clarify why not before and now if you ask for it. It's also true that it's not the first time you ask for something you've voted against before. On December 10, 2014, nothing more and nothing less than three months ago, they also voted against the development of a socio-economic study on the fishing of the sardine and its importance for the Welsh fleet, for the fishing communities and for the fishing, processing and marketing industry. And today there is an amendment from the Joint Group, which is an amendment to add, which calls for this, but, well, the Joint Group Member must be forgiven because the Joint Group Member plays in another elite and only talks about fishing in plenary because it is true that the Committee on Fisheries has not yet passed; with which we can only talk about fishing in plenary and this initiative has been dealt with in committee. But I have to tell you, moreover, that you are calm because this government is already doing what you are asking for, you are doing the duties, and you have explained it very well to the Counsellor in the past. He told him that Galicia's reference proposal is that of the Galician Fisheries Council; it is the initiative that brought the People's Party to this Parliament and that the Socialist Party did not support it. But he also told her that we can't forget that not only does Galicia decide, that there's a long way left, that we also told her when we brought the proposal...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u258	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u259	There's a long way to go. Much has already been agreed with the autonomous communities of Cantabria and Andalusia, then we have to agree with Portugal and we must finally see the European Commission. And you say, "There's nothing." There can be nothing so far, ladies and gentlemen, you don't go so far. And I will finish, Madam President, if I may, telling you that for us quotas are insufficient in all fleets and in all species. When you were negotiating quotas, the odds fell, and for us they're still insufficient, but we've changed that trend, because in recent years the quotas have risen around 29%...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u260	Finish, please, Mr. Balsairo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u261	... –end, Madam President – and if they are insufficient today imagine what we could say to ourselves during the years 2005-2009. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u262	Thank you very much. Motion author group. Mr. Val Alonso has the floor. Give Mr. Val Alonso a voice, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u263	Thank you, President. The truth is that it is very sad to debate with you, Mr. Balsairo; it is very sad to debate with who is so insensitive to the problems of the sector, and it is very sad to debate with those who do not understand what they are saying to you, because, look, I know perfectly that you can fish in zone VIIIb, what we are telling you is that zone VIIIb is included within the Sardinian Management Plan so that you have the same limitations as the rest of the Spanish ships. That's what we're telling you, Mr. Balsairo. I know that in area VIIIb you can fish for Basque boats, Mr. Balsairo. You don't understand anything we're telling you. Or do you think it's fair that some people can fish without any kind of limitation while the Greek ships are subject to a restriction that implies they can't fish Sardinia until March, and from there a maximum weekly peak of a thousand tons for the entire Spanish fleet, which will mean no more than 3,000 kilograms per boat a week? Do you understand this, Mr. Balsairo? Because if you don't understand this, there's no more discussion. Look, I'll ask you the same question again. Do you think it is profitable for a fishing company to meet these conditions, with 5,000 kilograms of garden for the whole year, with 3,000 kilograms of sardine per week at most for two, three or four months? Do you think this is viable? Can you come here to defend that the fishing quotas have increased? I've already told you that you're not going to discuss this and that, like every year, some increase and others decrease according to the scientific criteria that come into play in the European Commission. But we're not discussing that, Mr. Balsairo, what we're discussing is that the measures you propose from the People's Party are tremendously unfair with our fleet. That's a reality, as much as you come here to say otherwise. And then they bring initiatives like those you just defended there to assume as themselves the claims of the Galician Fisheries Council and when it comes to making the decisions and defending those positions that you bring to Parliament do absolutely nothing. And you publish in the State Gazette a management plan that doesn't pick up a single measure of what you say you defend, that's the reality, Mr. Balsairo. The reality is very stubborn, and as much as you come to say there are more quotas, the truth is that up to a year ago they could fish 7,000 kilos of sardine a day, 6,000 kilos of interest and 10,000 kilos of mouth, and not today. Today in zone 9A we have 1.2%, 1.2%! of the chances of fishing for the mouth. Does that sound normal to you? How do you think he could be a shipowner with those possibilities? To the limit. You're at the limit, Mr. Balsairo!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u264	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u265	And you're here to defend issues that are not assumed. Look, I tell you the truth, Mr. Balsairo, it is a pity that a person like you, who is an expert in fisheries, is unable to see the reality that the sector is suffering, Mr. Balsairo. All I hope is that it's not too late for men and women from the sea. As for the amendment, I'm going to tell you not to the honourable Member of the Joint Group. We're not going to accept it because it contains too ambiguous issues, which are not needed or contained... Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u266	Thank you very much, Mr. Val. Motions vote
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u267	We passed the motions. We begin with the Parliamentary Group of the Gaga de Left Alternative, at the initiative of Mr Sánchez, to which no amendments have been tabled. G.P. Motion vote. of the Alternative Galaga de Left, at the initiative of D. Antón Sánchez García, on the action to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in connection with the rural development plan of Galicia 2014-2020. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 29; against, 40 votes in favour. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u268	We voted on the motion by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mrs Acuña do Campo, who I believe said he accepted the amendment of the Nationalist Block of Galicia as an amendment to addendum. Text vote on the G.P. Motion. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da Ma Carmen Acuña do Campo, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in relation to the construction of the new health centres committed to the electoral campaign, the assumption of its maintenance and the elimination of architectural barriers in them. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 29; against, 40 votes in favour. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u269	Finally, we are voting on the motion by the Group of the Socialists of Galicia on the initiative of Mr Val Alonso, who does not accept the amendment of the Joint Group. G.P. Motion vote. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of D. José Ramón Val Alonso, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in connection with the Sardinian Management Plan for the next three years. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 29; against, 40 votes in favour. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u270	We continue with the development of the agenda, with point 4 of non-legislative proposals. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of Da María Remedios Quintas Álvarez and three other Members, on the measures to be taken by the Galician Union on employment and support for working women
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u271	A G.P. amendment was introduced to this non-law proposal. of the Alternative Left-Galga.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u272	To formulate the non-law proposal, Mrs Acuña do Campo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u273	Thank you, President. Good afternoon again, gentlemen. On 22 February we commemorate the European Day for Pay Equality, and on 8 March we will celebrate the International Women's Day, so I will be allowed to have this debate on work done today with the glasses of gender put on. It is clear, ladies and gentlemen, that the important thing is not what governments can do between February 22nd and March 8th, permeated by that spirit of commemoration. No, the important thing is what governments do for equality for the rest of the year, that is, what they do between March 8 and February 22, and I'm afraid that, in terms of data, we have to conclude that the governments of the People's Party are doing little and, in addition, bad. But for what, no doubt, we have to use these dates is to reflect, to reflect on where we are and where we want to go; and also to take stock of what is being done to achieve it. And the truth is that this analysis confirms that Mr. Rajoy's work reform is a serious failure and that Mr. Feijó's work and equality policies are a real ruin. But the bad thing is that you applied together, those of the state and those of Mr. Feijóo, are causing a serious, regrettable and, of course, intolerable retreat for women. But let's talk about the obvious thing about inequality, about the wage gap, which, far from disappearing, is increasing. According to the latest published data, Spain triggers the wage gap and moves away from the European average, at 2002 levels. Spain has become the country of Europe where wage inequality has increased the most, and since the PP has reached the Government of Spain, we have been down 19 posts in that report by the World Economic Forum on the gender gap. In addition, and according to the data from the last study by the equal secretariats of the UXT trade unions and the Labour Commission, where the impact of labour reform is already measured, the wage gap in Spain is almost 24%, exactly 23.9%, or, in other words, with the labour policies of the People's Party, a woman has to work more days a year, about two more months, to earn the same money as a man doing the same job. So, if a woman wants to retire like a man, she'll have to do it eleven and a half years later. And even in retirement, differences continue, as the wage gap persists. The average pension, in the case of men, is around 1,178 euros monthly, while for women it's not more than 723. But if the analysis is focused here – in Galicia – what we have met is even worse. On the one hand, here we have the lowest wages in all of Spain. Galicia occupies the second position beginning at the end of all autonomous communities, only in front of the Canary Islands, not forgetting that, with the crisis, the insignificant Labour Adviser has managed to cut the lowest wages by 20%, while the highest rose by 6%. On the other hand, in Galicia, with Mr Feijóo's excellent policies, the wage gap has risen above the average by almost 2%, so here, while the average wage of a man is about 22,000 euros a year, the woman's income remains at 16,700 euros a year, that is, about 5,000 euros a year, without forgetting that since Feijóo arrived at Junta, female employment has lost around 51,000 jobs. So, with Feijóo Galicia has about 10% less jobs for women, women who, when we work, we do it with conditions of much greater precariousness than men's, 75.21% of the part-time journey is in the hands of women. Or, in other words, one out of four working women has a partial contract obliged – and I insist on that obligation – that it is not chosen, although the chosen one would also be very soft, because we choose it – between meals – to take care of the minors, to look after the older ones, to look after the dog and the canary. Besides, ladies and gentlemen, until now Spain's great problem was unemployment, but with the People's Party I fear they have just created another equally serious problem: precarious work, which is causing poor workers and workers, especially workers. And of course, precariousness also has a greater impact on women, especially on younger women, those whom Mr. Feijóo considers only to improve demography. I'd have Mr. Feijó to give him a ride, because under those working conditions few women will decide to be mothers. By the way, the wage gap in this precarious work is even greater than in the rest, and if we used to talk about almost 24%, here the wage gap, in part-time work, reaches almost 34%, exactly 33.7%, which puts us, ladies and gentlemen, at the head of all European countries. So, since one in four working women do it in part-time, we can say that 25% of the women who work in Spain – and also in Galicia – bear a 34% wage gap, the largest in all of Europe. That's why it's no wonder that 28 percent of women in Spain are at risk of poverty and social exclusion. It is clear that labour reform and the policies of the People's Party, both in the state and in the Union, what they are looking for is to leave us to women at home, so they compensate for the deficiencies they have caused in social benefits with the cuts applied, and they also relieve the numbers of unemployment in this way. If they get women to quit working, the People's Party eliminates more than half of the population of unemployment. Ideological cuts and reactionary policies that have harmed and much! the progress made in recent years of socialist governments in the field of equality. Not to mention the legislative changes of the People's Party, such as the so-called reform of the Sexual and Reproductive Health Act and voluntary interruption of pregnancy, which, in addition to absurd and unnecessary, seems even misoxin. From the Socialist Parliamentary Group we want to demand and regain the commitment of governments to women's rights, to labour and wage rights, and with the full incorporation of women into the labour market under the same conditions as men, therefore, ladies and gentlemen, there is no objective cause that justifies labour inequalities between men and women except discrimination and machoism, and to that end we present this initiative, which we hope you will count on with the support of the other groups. In addition, we want to take advantage of this debate to invite all women, especially those who sit on the benches of the People's Parliamentary Group – who, by the way, with their votes foster these inequalities – to which they unite in this struggle, because all together, ladies and gentlemen, we could all together put an end to all this. Feminism to move forward, together in the same struggle, is the motto that we will claim in the streets on March 8th.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u274	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u275	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, you are not left, because we must fight together for our rights. Together for all rights, and together for the rights of all, for the younger and the most vulnerable, especially. I look forward to the support of the groups. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u276	Thank you very much. You have the floor for the Mixed Group, Mrs. Martínez, because there's an amendment that I haven't noticed and Mrs. Martínez has also amended. Therefore, she intervenes in the first place.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u277	Thank you, President. Labour counter-reform was precarious, massive redundancies, union repression, poverty and exclusion, emigration and greater social inequality. It has affected civil society in general: working class, agro-gander sector, pensioners, chronic ill people, old people, children. But within each of these affected social groups, women suffered more consequences. We're the women we have the best records in universities and in ESO, but they're still being minority in the most advanced sectors of our industry, research or executive positions. According to the gender impact report accompanying the 2015 budgets, women have a minority presence as leading researchers in research projects, being especially reduced in the university field, where only 29.8% of the leading researchers are women. In 2012 they read in Galicia, however, 548 doctoral theses; 54.20% were read by women. However, 80% of women with employment belong to the service sector. In the German technology sector, around 15,000 people, 38% of whom are women, are employed; however, only 17.3% are engaged in ICT functions, compared to 52.9% of men. Of the total staff dedicated to R & D+i in ICT companies, only 18.4% are women. Women's access to the labour market is not produced with the same intensity; male employment has risen by 70% more than female, and female unemployment decreases by less than half as male. Unemployment affects more women than men in our country. They also affect women more than men on temporary and part-time contracts; women have more precarious working conditions. Wage inequality persists, which also increases over these years of crisis, moving in 2010 from 13.5% to a current 24% crack. In 2010 the percentage of low-wage employees in Greece was 17.4%, while in 2006 it was 13.9%; i.e., women's monthly wages are going to increase. There is also a horizontal gender segregation, so that women occupy certain sectors. There is a lack of co-responsibility in domestic tasks; women are less involved in continuing training; there is a lower presence of women in managerial positions; the rate of men's activity exceeds 9.5 points than women's; women's wage work has a greater dependence on the public sector; the risk of poverty or social exclusion is 24%; 20.9 % of households with dependent children are in poverty, and this number increases to half if we talk about single-parent homes, which are generally women's care. So our amendment goes this way because we believe that the problem of women's discrimination in the workplace is very much linked to women's discrimination in many other areas of life and that we cannot move forward in equality by parties, but we need to create a policy that covers everything that affects women and all that discriminates against them. That is why in the amendment we are presenting measures to modify housing policy, energy policy, to establish a social wage, to enhance the broadband plan for the whole of Galicia. To present an incentive plan for the creation of qualified employment based on investment in R & D+i and young people. To urge the German Government to promote collective negotiations in the Italian field where the objective of progressively achieving wage equality is sought. And also the elimination of point seven of the Socialist Party's initiative, because the economic sacrifices imposed on workers must reverse a higher increase when the economic situation improves. In any case, only the derogation from the counter-reform can restore to collective bargaining its dynamizing role in the economy and guarantee the rights of the working class. Let's add more...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u278	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u279	...–now finished– other points such as derogating Decree Law 3/2012 or amending Article 135 of the Constitution. Let us hope that the Socialist Party will accept this amendment, which simply seeks to extend guarantees for women's equality. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u280	Thank you very much. Parliamentary Group of the Left Galician Alternative. You have the word to Mrs. Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u281	Thank you, President. So we were talking in the morning, in the BNG bill, about women's difficulty in finding employment historically; about the problems we've still encountered and which have also been increased since the beginning of the crisis, and about the austere reforms and measures of cutting and adjusting. The deregulation of employment is part of the 1990s, and successive governments have been favoring the loss of labour rights and progressively undermining and facilitating dismissal as well. The entrance of the ETTs and garbage contracts has also been released in many generations of girls and boys and in the most precarious layers of the working class. The last two labour reforms, imposed since the start of the system crisis, have contributed to further precarious work, especially women. The last one, Rajoy's, has narrowed to unsuspected limits of dismissal, has made it extremely easy, and the most serious one, has also proposed a deregulation that throws all the achieved in relation to collective bargaining, allowing, for example, the release of collective agreements. That's why we tabled an amendment that goes beyond asking for the reform to be refused, but instead asking for a derogation. Women, in addition, suffer not only unemployment, but – as was said here by the proponent – a wage gap of more than 24%. That is why in the amendment we introduced a point that calls for legal action to end this crack, positive discrimination measures. Otherwise, they'll probably give the same kind of equality campaign as they intend to do from the administration. We are also precarious – even if it has been commented here – the ones that most part-time contracts we occupy; less wages and, therefore, less purchasing capacity. This is impossible to fight against inequality and the feminization of poverty. We also amend to request a basic income implementation study to address system deficiencies. What we don't agree with is the Italian salary for insertion because it's quite a scarce salary, or at least it was at the moment, even lower than the risk counts. According to the points that call for return on investment in employment – and of course we are in line – the Alternative Gaga de Left goes further, and we think – and so we also consider the amendment – that we have to ensure from the public administration that hundreds of public jobs that we believe can be created in new employment niches. We have niches without exploiting, for example, green jobs, public transport, road maintenance; and, of course, we also have thousands of jobs destroyed within public services – in health, in well-being, in education... – which we believe should recover and restore the administration. In addition, it turns out that women are still mostly in the public sector, especially – as their lordships already know – in health and education. Therefore, the cuts in it have even more affected our poverty and our feminization of poverty; and, of course, the decline in future pensions. We do not agree – we have eliminated it in our amendment – with point six – which speaks of the framework agreement between employers and trade unions – because we believe that the agreements exist and are called collective agreements, and must be enforced by law, of course. Nor does it seem to us that point seven is appropriate, because, of course, we must respect labour rights, respect agreements and respect the law, and we should not, like ourselves, set as an example of entry into a paper to negotiate at the expense of labour rights. The same with point eight, which looks or gives the feeling – although we understand that the intention is positive –...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u282	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u283	...who tries to reward those who comply with the law. We believe that what must be done is to punish those who do not do it and to prevent – as we propose in the amendment and have already proposed in this plenary – that the Administration may hire those companies that do not comply with labour rights or that do not comply with the conditions of collective agreements. And finally, we also introduce the need to simplify and streamline schedules and schedules by law with reinforcement measures to make work and family life compatible, and that men and women can take responsibility for care tasks. We understand that the situation of female employment and the feminization of poverty is very serious; the truth is that it does not take time to talk about all the measures that should be taken. And your solution has to be for positive measures and not for giving more facilities for the precariousness of employment, which is what this government is proposing unfortunately with the measures we have seen here today in this House. So we expect our amendment to be taken into account.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u284	Thank you very much, Mrs. Solla. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. Mrs. Adam Villamarin has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u285	Thank you. Good night. We understand that today's proposal for debate, which – as the proposal has explained – comes to the thread of what is a date like February 22 and March 8, where different reports at the Greek level, at the state level, at the European level and at the world level reveal the very important differences in employment between women and men. But over the past few years – as we have already explained from the forum by the proponent – what these reports say is that it has been accentuated, that just the last few years of so-called times of crisis have meant – we have seen data at the state level, we have seen the data from the Germans – an increase in female poverty, the wage gap, female unemployment, the precariousness and vulnerability of women's work. That is why we believe that this proposal is intended to raise the debate on the importance of women's economic independence. In that sense, we are going to support this initiative – in which we could actually nude various issues – because we believe it makes it clear the need for us to stop thinking that it is happening with the achievements achieved by women in the workplace. How easy it is to go back in such a short time! All the different authors that we have quoted from this gallery, from Rosalía – which we did this morning – to Virginia Woolf himself, when in three guineas he explained that, if women do not have economic capacity, they will not have freedom. And it is clear that the proposal made by Simone de Beauvoir and all subsequent feminism is the need for economic independence in order to gain access to equality. That's why I'm going to quote today a text that proved very clarifying, the University's latest monograph is complete with regard to public policies, which is entitled Public policies in times of crisis. An analysis from the perspective of gender. I recommend your reading because you make a journey both through European legislation and state legislation. And there's a referenced article in the German case, also very clarifying – which I recommend his reading and even his debate – in which he becomes manifest that the perspective of gender, the so-called mainstreaming, has been lost in all public policies. And since we're talking about employment, I want to talk about that in Galicia -- as far as I know -- follows a law on equal work for Galician women that has an article 37 that speaks of a German female employment plan; waiting for that plan, it's for that German female employment plan. But I would like to remind you that this law has been repealed with some articles, those that had to do with conciliation, with the field of time-uses, with the bank of time. And also the Galego Council for Women's Participation in Employment and Labour Relations. How necessary it would be today to have a Greek advice on employment and employment relations! I think it was a hurt – beyond a pain, we can call it a political mistake of the People's Party that we paid all women – to eliminate this Galeco Council of Women's Participation in Employment and to dissolve it in the Galego Council of Women, which is for other things. The People's Party, which often uses to multiply entities without need, does not understand why in the field of equality it decided to apply the Ockham knife and reduce all kinds: from the SEGAM and the Galego Women's Participation Council; any area where it could have improved in equality. That is why I also want to remind you that we are still waiting for a new plan, although a new Women's and Science Programme has been approved in Parliament. It only takes the People's Party right now, the Government, five years of delay in drawing up the second plan of women and science, where, indeed, these wage inequalities that occur in the scientific and technological field should have some way to change. The same can be said of women's health and the Women's Health Care Plan, also eliminated. As I've already been told, and since I'm running out of time, we'll have to go out on the street again and talk about the right...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u286	It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u287	...to decide about women, in this case about girls. I know we'll probably discuss this subject again, but before March 8th I also want to make a call to the women of this House's People's Party, if they think it's really necessary for girls who can get married, who can work, legally they can't decide about their motherhood and have to do it to their parents, mothers or legal guardians. I believe that this is also a serious change and that it shows the scale before the issue of equality. Indeed, in times of crisis, the reduction of equality policies is paid to women. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u288	People's Parliamentary Group. You have the floor to Mrs. Prado del Río.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u289	Thank you very much, President. Now what happens is we have to see if there are women. Why should women be put on even if there are no qualified women? But there were no qualified women in Greece, and what do you know? Well, I guess they'll know better than you and me. I'm delighted that there's positive discrimination, but one thing is positive discrimination and another is that, among people who have to be enormously competent for the challenges they face, you have to choose a less competent person simply because you have to put a woman in. It seems to me that he is of the stupid genre, and I say it with all clarity, and that they call me a machist, if they want, but between feminism and stupidity there is a sidereal distance, it's talking nonsense. Ladies and gentlemen, the inequalities do not give them the votes of the Members of this bench, the inequalities produce manifestations like these. President. — The next item is the report (Doc. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] These kinds of demonstrations do a weak favor to the cause of equality because they consider that there are no women competent to lead the ministries of a country; because these types of demonstrations do prevent the glass ceiling from breaking. [[Murmurs.]] This kind of demonstration, Mrs. Acuña, of course they're machists, and we call it machist. [[Applause]] And look, even though the interventions we've just heard may seem like we're talking about an initiative that only talks about employment equality, the initiative has 9 points, of which only 1 refers to a question of equality, a project, a specific program for women. First of all, I would like to point out that not even in this opposition is in agreement, because both the Alternative Left Galeg and the Joint Group have completely amended the whole initiative, incorporating additional points, removing points... it seems that you don't agree on anything, not even on this. They won't count on our vote, because they're presenting an initiative that proposes a lot of things that are already being done since the German Government, and because what we're not doing, we don't agree with their positions. They call for a derogation from labour reform. Yes, you forget, Mrs. Acuña, the job reform that you passed when they were still ruling in Spain. Very similar to ours. Not enough, but very similar, Mrs. Acuña. I have to tell you that, thanks to the job reform that you refuse, Galicia ended in 2014 with 17,100 unemployed less than a year earlier, which is a relative download of -6.09%, according to data from the active population survey. This is the third annual consecutive download of the unemployment rate in Galicia. You propose that Junta facilitate key skills training for those job seekers and their lack of employment. I have to tell you that the Employment and Wellness Council offers job seekers training for access to key skills, and Galicia is also pioneering in conducting key skills training tests since 2009. They intend to re-establish the territorial employment pacts. Ladies and gentlemen, the territorial employment pacts have been abolished as such in the Social Dialogue Framework, by agreement between the employer and the unions. They propose to promote framework agreements between trade unions and entrepreneurs. As you know, the Galician Union has, since 2009, been engaged in a process of social dialogue to reach agreements in the field of Galician economic reactivation. This process, which was configured through various work tables, came to 29 agreements in the past legislation. They now propose some social dialogue agreements that you criticized yourself this morning at the meeting of the Labour Counsellor. Surrealistic. Simply surreal, Mrs. Acuña. [[Applause]] They also propose that businesses be required to enter into agreements for economic sacrifices with trade union centres, and that these sacrifices result in greater participation of workers in the decision-making of companies. You pass over the autonomy conferred by the Staff Regulations on employers and representatives of workers to reach agreements; you violate the fundamental respect of negotiation between the parties. The Union can't, in any case, enforce these agreements. He may mediate or mediate, but never exaggerate.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u290	It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u291	Finally, they propose a specific care program for women. Look, the Galician Union is already paying special attention to the effort and impulse of women's employment, which is perhaps why the female unemployment rate is four points lower than the state average. In Galicia we have a 29.69 point rate against the average of Spain, which is 25.43%. It's certainly very high, we're aware of that, we have to keep working, but we're doing things. And about the wage gap between men and women, I can tell you that it's a concern for all of us, too, now and also before, because this gap is not new, Mrs. Acuña, it already existed when you ruled. We're worried about it: before, now, and they'll keep worrying as long as the gap still exists...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u292	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u293	...salarial. You know perfectly well that since the opposition it is very easy to make proposals that cannot be carried out. These days we're seeing how those who promised to abolish the troika or not pay the debt are changing the speech. And how did it come from...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u294	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u295	...saying the German finance minister, ruling is a date with reality. Come to our reality, come to the reality of Galicia, which is what you refuse to see. You do live in a world...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u296	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u297	...of the Matrix, where we go to absolute destruction. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u298	Group author of the non-law proposal. You have the word to Mrs. Acuña do Campo. Please give a voice to Mrs. Acuña's chair.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u299	Thank you, Madam President. First of all, to announce that on this occasion we will not accept the amendments proposed from the AGE or the Joint Group. We are interested in putting the text to the vote as presented. But we certainly want to thank the support and speech of the opposition groups. As for the People's Party Member, regret that the gender glasses were broken. It's a shame, yes. Perhaps you've never had them... look, inequalities are overcome, no doubt, by macho manifestations, but food inequalities and they are generated by management and laws, Madam. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Besides, I have to tell you that in Galicia there are 2,200 people less busy, and it's the third worst autonomous community in Spain. Look, Mrs Prado, despite your speech and that you don't have those glasses, which would be so interesting, I'm going to keep insisting on the Members of the People's Party, because, look, I don't mind you sitting there, listening so quietly, and then you're pressing the button against all of us. I don't expect you, or the rest of the Members of the People's Party, to go out to the streets with the rest of the women; I don't hope so. But I do hope they are not complicit that 25% of the women in Greece live with a 34% salary gap, Madam, the largest in Spain. Not to be complicit that 28 percent of women are at risk of poverty and social exclusion. They accept, without doing or saying anything, that female employment had lost 51,000 jobs. That you're an accomplice to a job reform that's causing one in four working women to have a part-time job. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, I end up insisting on the same idea: together, together, together, we could change all of this. Together, all rights; and together, all rights. I hope, Madam, that you will reflect and convince your group to support our proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u300	Thank you very much, Mrs. Acuña. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. People of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr Miguel Ángel Santalices Vieira and seven other Members, on the action to be taken by the Government of Greece in relation to the approval of the public job offer corresponding to the 2015 financial year
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u301	This motion for a non-law amendment was tabled by the Joint Group, the Group of Socialists and the Nationalist Block Galego.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u302	You have the floor, to formulate your proposal, Mr. Santalices Vieira.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u303	Thank you, Madam President. Very good night to all and to all. Well, I'll try to be synthetic, because we're also lucky that yesterday I was able to hear here – which I'm satisfied with – that several health spokesmen were in the presentation of what was the evaluation of the Sergas Strategy 2009-2014. Yes, I'm very grateful if you were there. Several aspects of this matter have been discussed. Besides, I think it's good that this spirit that has always been in this House, that the health spokespersons, at least, go along with many of the acts that have been... I've gone to many. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Sorry, together, together, yes, but one thing has nothing to do with the other. [[Murmurs.]] You don't know if you wake up, some Member here will wake up. To the three health spokespersons: Mr. Cervinho, Mr. Ferrier Abelleira and I were called "the Trio los Panchos", and nothing happened, and we went all over Galicia. Now we can't call him trio because we're more, but that spirit is good, it's good. I attended the presentations of many projects that the two-party government had and I did not regret having attended. I've been there for a lot of people. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] You, Mrs. Acuña, by the way, none. [[Murmurs.]] You're not an example, are you? No, no, no, no. I know of ladies, but you don't, no. In that sense, the spirit does not plan on you. Well, let's go to what we're going to. [[Applause]] In yesterday's act we heard about several things, and here they have been explained by some honourable Members. Among other things, between 2010 and 2014 public health handled about 15,000 million euros, a non-desirable figure. It is true that it was also said that by 2020 we will have about EUR 20 billion. I think it's a figure that gives evidence of the weight of health, and I think this guarantees our sustainability. I'm saying it was a shame because in that act there were many people, many professionals, and there was also talk about the analysis done. It's basically a very important chapter, such as staff, human resources. And it has been said that from 2009 to 2014 they are incorporated, through employment supply and job consolidation systems, 4,357 employees; it's an undisputed figure. In 2015, as we will see later, 344 squares will be incorporated, which is not a figure, of course, a child. It's also true that one of the things that matters most to the staff in this case, because we're talking about the Galician Health Service, is its stability, and here figures have reached 81% in 2014. That's an important figure, which has grown, as compared to 2009, by about 6 points. We've also talked about the importance our staff give to the subject of training. Bibliosaurus has been spoken of as a documentation service, where professionals can do an important query job. And this also contributes to what we have currently 14,000 users who have made a visit around what is the Bibliosaurusuda system. We've also talked about information tools. For example, data that was surprising. Some of them pointed at Mrs. Solla here. So 15,400 professionals have access to IANUS; 160,000 queries are being made at the moment on average in the IANUS system. And more than 340,000 electronic revenue dispensations per day. So I think these are figures that reveal the importance of human resources within the health system. The staff's effort has to be thanked. They're the real ones responsible for today's more qualitative management of waiting lists, I insist on this. And despite everything, we were able to decrease. We spend from 75 days in the year 2000 to 56 days we have right now. And in priority, as you know, we're in figures close to 18 days. There is a very important data, which was pointed out yesterday, and which I did not know, which is the number of patients who increased by the care of ADHD, from hospitalization to home; in particular, it was 32%. This is a very important aspect because it is the care of patients in their own homes, over 6,000 patients. So all the effort that the Administration can make in human resources is important. Job creation, important. Employment stability, fundamental. In addition to the incorporation of staff, health institutions have contributed to achieving – and this is demonstrated – levels of much higher efficiency. People have security in their jobs, and it's true, because everyone we go through there knows the concern that the interim staff has about their consolidation of the square. So that steps can be taken so that employment can be consolidated, this is important. And then efforts were made. For example – and I am aware – one part that collects our proposal is that we will increase the replacement rate. The replenishment rate was 10%, and now, thanks to pressure – then Galicia has led it – from our autonomous community, because it has reached a figure of about 50%. But it's also a very important aspect – and I think we all agree on it, so it's our request – that public job offers are too late in time. People are asking for more speed. That's why our proposal collects two requests that are very important. One is that in the 2015 OPs the 50% replenishment rate is already respected, looks like this more or less government-explained. But we also ask that the processes be accelerated in the call for the resolution of the OPEs. More speed in this matter because it's a matter that worries, and much, the people who work within the health system, specifically in the Galician Health Service. Nothing else, Madam President. We expect the support of this proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u304	Thank you very much. Intervention of parliamentary groups. Joint Group. Mrs. Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u305	Today we could write the full thing like, "How nice it is to live in an election year." It's beautiful, all full of promises, there are millions everywhere. Well, this is wonderful! It's a shame that the election years are over and all those promises are in vain, parked for the next electoral process. That's the policy of the People's Party. So now it turns out that the People's Party is in a hurry because in the first six months the public job offer is already called, to see if it can come before the elections, at least before the general elections to the Spanish Parliament are held. That's the interest the People's Party has. And yet it is presented as the defence of public health and as an increase in the stability of health professionals, when the real commitment to employment stability would be to eliminate the 50% replenishment rate and finally set a 100% replacement rate of the vacant squares plus those of the transfer contests, instead of amortizing public employment squares. They play with public employment squares to do electoralism, while Sergas professionals have contracts more than precarious. The People's Party comes to sell job stability in Sergas when there are hundreds of professionals who don't know where they're going to work, where they're going to have their job. They won't fool anyone. The citizen knows that his interest is not in our health, but in trying to save the furniture from elections that he's afraid of. The situation in which our public health system is found is of absolute precaution, it is sufficient to read the conclusions of the report submitted by SOS Public Health last year. Between 2009 and 2014 Galicia's health budget dropped by 460 million; spending on health personnel dropped by 6%; they shut down services and beds in the summer to avoid hiring staff; waiting lists are normalized in primary care. Give your speculator friends from private companies the new Vigo hospital. They force Sergas staff to join the concessionaires. They deny the necessary medication to chronically ill people. They kick Parliament – as happened in the last plenary – people affected by hepatitis C. They limit the material to Sergas professionals. They maintain a concert with Povervisa that does not guarantee the same rights to patients who access public health, who access this private hospital. They hold the whole set of fundamental services in the hands of the private company, such as the sterilization of the instrument, ambulances or clinical history. The Greek health turned into a succulent business for the businessmen friends of the People's Party. We know that they lie, that they have a plan designed to deliver health care, an essential public service, to private enterprise speculation. In the 2014 contest, no such service premises were convened in the process of privatizing. With similar panorama, they now present an initiative to advance the 2015 OPE, believing they're going to fool people. [[Murmurs.]] It's very nice to live in an election year! Great campaigning, big promises, applause and more applause. And at the end of the electoral period, the unconcluded OPE, the unconstructed health centers, the risk without meeting the deadlines, the rejections follow, the job has not been created and the promises of both Pemex and no one have arrived. But it doesn't matter, again in the campaign, the People's Party starts advertising big investments. Enough of the institutions to do electoral propaganda! What needs Greek health is job stability...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u306	It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u307	...that Sergas has a staff frame has adjusted to real needs, to end precarious recruitment, without rights, which is currently applying Galician Union. That's why we present this amendment, to end with policies that turn the constitutional right to health into an act of charity of the Administration to sick people. Our amendment is essentially going to change only a small part of the initiative, and it's that the replacement rate, instead of 50%, is 100 percent, because the health of the Greeks and the Greeks not only deserves it, but also needs it. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u308	Thank you very much, Mrs. Martínez. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. You have the floor to Mrs. Prado Cores.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u309	Good night to all and to all. Mr. Santalices, you will allow me not to join the spirit of the trio of the panchos, where I see that... I don't know what health priorities were, but it seems like it was having a good time, right? Those who don't have a good time are those professionals who, every time I get up here in the gallery, I don't know how many flowers, but then it turns out that the measures they take, of course, are not to favor – not much less – their work. I would also like to remind you that since Galicia has made a great effort to achieve that the replenishment rate is already 50%, I would remind you that the normal rate is 100 percent, because it turns out that Galicia has no fewer patients, there is no fewer needs, there is no less need for attention, with which, the normal thing is that it rests, at least, the same staff as there is. So a 50% replenishment rate means a 50% cut; it's no success, it's a failure. So I don't know what you have to pretend about. In any case, I'd like you to bring us to the documents or the supports that add that Galicia led that request by 50%. I'm saying it because, coming here and saying that if they did, I don't know what things, it's very good, but of course, BNG would like us to have made that pressure from the board in this direction. Look, the People's Party has refused in this House, either in full or out of commission, over and over, initiatives that demanded the creation of squares, recruitment of staff; initiatives to put an end to poor contracts; initiatives that denounced the limited situation in which professionals were developing their activities. We denounce here – and you know them perfectly – professionals on the street, professionals on strike. What was the result? If they failed, they looked elsewhere and voted against all the initiatives that were brought here to demand a change in the employment policy of the Health Council. But look where, there are elections in sight and the People's Party, by the art of Birli Birloque, has increased his working sensitivity. Well, all right, he's grown in his job sensitivity. Health, in a decommissioning process. And as far as human resources management is concerned, the truth is, they do well to pay attention to the government council that you support. Because they look at today's human resources management situation in the council is bad. The final destinations of the multi-categories transfer invitation to tender are not published. The publication of provisional destinations for the transfer contest of various categories of management and services is pending. Negotiation of the contract agreement is pending, which has been denounced since September. The Committee on the Tracking of the Pact is pending. The call for the ordinary sectoral table is pending. I mean, some other human resources duty if you have to do the advice. And several selective processes are pending. That is why the Galego Nationalist Block has tabled an amendment to the initiative presented here by the People's Party, in the sense that the Galician Parliament urges the Government of Galicia to immediately resolve the selective processes of Sergas of the years 2012, 2013 and 2014, which are unresolved, Mr. Santalices; 2012, 2013 and 2014. And call the OPE corresponding to the financial year 2015. We agree that we should call at the beginning of the year, we agree, but for all categories it is 100 percent of the squares. You don't come up and get me around here, as you do in your initiative, to call the 50% replacement rate without setting for which categories, or when it's going to be solved. And we put the amendment because of propaganda and smoke we're already a little tired and, because look, it turns out, what I told you before, the 2012 OP, unsolved, the 2013 unsolved, and 2014 just...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u310	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u311	...published the decrees. That's the situation of the selective processes in Sergas right now. And now you come here, in an exercise of demagogy, saying, "It's that we care a lot about staff. If they really cared about them, they would have done their homework, and they wouldn't have all those interim people, all those people, delivered up to bring forth the public health of our country from their situation. With which, the People's Party not only approves evil labour reforms, but is the worst employer, and the council itself acts as one of the worst...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u312	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u313	...employers. With which, Mr. Santalices, please, less demagogy!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u314	Socialist Parliamentary Group. Mr. Vázquez Fernández has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u315	Good night, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Santalices, you're proud because yesterday it looks like the board did an analysis, an evaluation, from 2009 to 2014. I don't know how much they spent on it, but it's easy for her to do. I'm going to do the same evaluation just on a sheet. A sheet sent by the Ministry of Business and Public Administration, directed by its illustrious minister. It says that the personnel of the Autonomous Community Administration in 2009 and 2014 are in -2.090 health care. You don't have to take so much work. Between 2009 and 2014, you say you've improved everything here, so much so that Galicia has 2,090 health-care facilities less. So nobody can twist the figures and say they come here pretending that we're going to increase 4,000. No, hiring 4,000 is one thing. If you fire 8,000, we're at -4,000. As always, you turn the half-truths into big lies. And they're doing figures, half by half, they're not going there. Mr. Santalices, what's happening in the human resources of the Galego Health Service? Very easy. The problem is not the replenishment rate, which is a problem. The problem is they're suppressing squares. Where in the municipalities there were three doctors, they delete one and there are two left. Where there were two, they suppress one and there's one left. They're reducing contracts, they're not covering sick leave and they're not covering vacation leave. They're precarging contracts, they already have contracts for hours, contracts for days; that is, we're in a job situation where the big problem is not that we don't support the rate that the state allows us, and the least of all, the big problem is that there's a political will to decide to cut spending on health personnel. The O.P.O. problem seems good to me in the first quarter, but it wouldn't be bad if they solved the 2012, the 2013 and the 2014 problem that's still unresolved. So we're going to start believing something, but what you're telling us now is that they want to go to 50% of the replacement rate in the election year, doing everything possible to save their health care. It was said by previous rapporteurs here, fellow Members of Parliament, that this is a political decision. If you don't have any money for chapter I, for a lot of OPE you make, there's less and less personal in chapter I. I want to finish this short time we have with one of the great contradictions. 50% replenishment rate. But if Galicia is the only place where health personnel, essentially medical and nursing, are applying to it something that nobody does, which is forced retirement at the age of 65. So what I'm going to tell you here is that we can vote on a 50% replacement rate, we voted on it, we just put a condition that seems reasonable to me – and I would explain it to the BNG spokesman –: as long as the 100 percent replacement rate is not reached – that one day you will have to go to it – do not force the doctors, nurses, doctors and nurses to retire, because if you go all and you only get 10% or 50%, within five years... Remember all of you when the National Health System is set up. A critical year ago, Miguel. It's been a critical year since 2020. The number of health pensions in 2020 is exponential from here to there. If you force them to retire at 65, it's impossible for the replacement rate, even 50%, to take care of them. To finish, I'm going to do a memory exercise. That's what I'm proposing to you, which is not forcing you to retire to the 65 health care workers, what you want to do, what you don't, until the replacement rate is 100 percent, I'm not the first one I say here. Do you know who was the first one to say it here years ago? You, you. You went further, it wasn't retirement at 65, it was that there were no retirements. It was that everyone could keep working...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u316	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u317	...even after retirement. And they were other times, with 100 percent replenishment rates. So my group will vote in favour if you accept our amendment, which I only ask for something of a very common sense, which is: we accept 50%. We were in 10, we're going to 50...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u318	Finish, Mr. Vázquez, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u319	...–Finished, Madam President–. But you commit yourself here to urging the board not to force forced retirements from health care workers while the restorative rate is not 100 percent.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u320	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u321	I think it's common sense, and we'll do a service to the professionals who are going to the judges to claim their rights. We'll do an exercise that we don't take up space, because it's clear that with that rate, every time someone retires...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u322	Mr. Vázquez, stop, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u323	...what's left is a vacant square. And finish with one thing, don't make a little trap. In health and education, they're 50% each, but they don't mean 50% each.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u324	Mr. Vázquez, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u325	If there is a 10% replacement rate, another 40%, or one 20%, or another 30%. So be generous and make this proposal that we put forward. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u326	Parliamentary Group of the Left Galician Alternative. You have the word to Mrs. Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u327	Thank you, President. From the Alternative Left Gallega, Mr. Santalices, we don't even consider amending this initiative. I'd ask for a little serious. Obviously, we were yesterday in that evaluation presentation because it is our obligation, but really what happened there – and this initiative here demonstrates it – is an insult to professionals and professionals who are going through it badly, to professionals and precarious professionals, who suffer directly from the policies of a Council of Galicia decided to clearly damage public health. The initiative, at least, is fantastic and with a certain alarm. You said it here too, incredibly attributed to the Galician PP, that the Central Government would increase the replacement rate from 10% to 50%. How you pressure the ministry, what fear they put on them! Now it seems that everything was thanks to the Galician Union. But thank you for what? For negotiating misery? For reaching the crumbs of their austerity measures? Thank you for nothing, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party. Health cuts are not negotiated because health is not sold. Yesterday, in that publicity act I referred to earlier, in the previous intervention, we had to endure Mr Feijó's arrogance and lies by saying that this government worked for the stability of health employment – you repeated it right now in the intervention – when what we have is more precarious work between potential staff and also between fixed staff, and less labor rights, and wage cuts, etc. How do they have the face to go out and then say they promote stable employment and quality employment in health care? How can I lie with that ease? This is therefore one more publicity initiative. And the ones that are left for us from now on to the election campaign, I think! We are in precaution, the parliamentary circus has already begun – with respect to the circus professionals – and the announcement show is seen throughout today's session. A lack of respect for those who suffer from their cutting policies. I said it here last year and I did it again. I'm Sergas' personal eventually. My last opposition exam was in 2009, and we're in 2015. Thank you for nothing, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party. In 2010 you announced four selective processes to be carried out before the end of 2013, two years ago. AGE has already warned that since 2012 opposition tribunals have already been cut off in the budgets of the Union. We warn you and denounce you in the 2013 budgets the first ones we have discussed in this House. From 2010 to 2013 you only pulled out a selective process, of course with a replacement rate. Process for specialized medical personnel who, despite being announced, their examination was not until 2014. I mean, you didn't even perform one of the selective processes that you promised to have done before the end of 2013, and the take-up hasn't even done it yet. What are they coming to talk about? Since 2012, Mr. Santalices! The truth is, we saw them faster. Thank you for nothing again, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party. The OPE you call 2013 of nursing and family medicine, we're already in 2015 and we don't even have the admissions and exclusions. I have to introduce myself, so I know it perfectly. At this point, we're going to the incorporations in 2017. Thank you for nothing. From OPE 2014 I don't say anything at all; poor squares and we don't even have the call on the table. Thank you for nothing. That's their stability in health work. They keep their advertising ads, their thanks to the health personnel, their precaution, but we don't miss them. We're not going to participate in this sad business show with misery.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u328	Group author of the non-law proposal. Mr. Santalices has the floor. Please give a voice to Mr. Santalices' chair.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u329	Thank you, Madam President. I'm gonna be too fast. 100% replenishment rate, I wish I could! but this is state regulations and so far I don't get there. But, of course, I'd like to have a 100 percent replenishment rate! Mrs. Martínez, we're not in Greece, we're in Spain. In Greece there are three million users outside the system, not covered by the system. So look in that mirror. With regard to what the spokesperson for the BNG said, look, we were health spokespersons, we had a good time and we had a bad time, we always respected each other. Today I can tell you that I have a good friendship with all of them, but also always respecting us. I knew you were going to bite this apron, which I'm going to comment now, and bite it. Of course, we were the first to attack the ministry by telling him we didn't comply with the replenishment rate! [[Laughter]] I can't hand it over to the president, but I'll hand it over later, one letter to the Health Minister and another to the Fairy ministry, where we're asking you to increase the replenishment rate. Galicia led the replacement rate to 50%. I knew you were going... see if I knew them! [[Applause]] Hey! I knew what I was going to do. With regard to the group of the Gaga de Left Alternative, you never take my initiatives as an insult. I'm not going to insult anyone, and less with an initiative. If you think this initiative is an insult, I apologize, but – you shut up – I will not withdraw it – you shut it now. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Look, Mr. Vázquez, we're talking about retirement, but we're going to see if we can agree to speak. I actually asked for that, and I still think there are people who are 65 years old who are great professionals and who can do an important job, but to see if their group agrees. I brought this to Parliament and in the plan I asked for it, and the amendment your Socialist Group makes to me is the following: to suppress the possibility of extending the retirement age. We have to agree, eh! Whenever you want, we're talking about retirement, but this is a turnaround that's... I'm already talking to you, I'm telling you that we can talk about this, but you have to start having that of the clear concept. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u330	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u331	You can't come to me... and I'm the one I don't want to... I want to bury that matter already, but you come here with an amendment -- we're not going to say the date, but imagine who I could be -- to suppress the possibility of extending the retirement age. I'm still defending that we have magnificent professionals who can still contribute a lot, but we're going to agree, see if we don't make any amendments to this type of thing. Nothing else, Madam President. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-02-24-DSPG098.u332	Thank you very much, Mr. Santalices. We'll stop the meeting until 10 a.m. tomorrow. Thank you very much.
