ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. We resume the session with agenda item 7, which is questions for the oral response of the President of Galicia. He asked Mr. President of the Galician Council of Mr. José Luis Méndez Romeu of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the guarantee by the government of quality in the provision of public services to citizenship
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u2	To put the question you have the word Mr. José Luis Méndez Romeo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u3	Mr President, you have opted for the large-scale outsourcing of public services; in some cases, such as the Vigo hospital, the front opposition of professionals, users, local authorities and also this parliamentary group, at a scandalous price, following failed and notoriously unwise models. They went ahead with a conflict-filled process: yesterday the complaint of the psychiatry units, then in Brussels there was an investigation of legality, on Saturday the chiefs of service, real artifices of the inception, communicated total discrepancy with the direction due to the lack of measures to solve the problems. Do you plan to make decisions at some point? Medical journals, among other things, are full of photographs and reports on the conditions of the services of that hospital, fully privatized and subtracted from professional control, cleaning, restoration, etc. Complaints about the deterioration of health services are repeated by medical schools, professional organizations, patients, with a common denominator that all say: they are a consequence of the cuts imposed by you, the reduction in staff, the increase in workload, the reduction in effective time of care for patients. Yesterday – with your absence, by the way – we were talking about the health care situation in Ourense: the same story and even disinterest yourself from you. The People's Valedor receives more complaints for public services every year. Last year, 6,000, the fourth part of health care, the saturation of emergencies, the suppression of personnel, the waiting lists. Here are the real indicators of the health and public services situation in Galicia. You are neglecting the control of outsourced services, which should be at least as intense as that of your own services. You need to do and know about inspections, audits, cost analyses, quality criteria, user rating, etc. They don't know each other. It's not enough for you to approve here a battery of legislative initiatives that are not yet met. You don't know that data, Mr. Feijóo, because they don't exist. They don't care about public services, and they're neglecting the quality of citizens and their full rights. That is why I ask you, Mr Feijóo: what measures will you take to ensure that the quality of public services is maintained and recovered?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u4	Thank you, Mr. Méndez Romeo. The President of the Board has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u5	Thank you very much, Madam President. Your Honor, ask me about the quality of public services. The public service bet is a constant decision made by the Government of Greece. Ladies and gentlemen, the German Government's constant decision is reflected in the seven budgets that the German Government has pushed and that this House has approved. In fact, 80% of all the resources that we have every year are devoted to the maintenance of public services. I'm sure you're not only worried about quantity, but about quality, and, as you know, the first law that guarantees the quality of public services was passed in this Parliament in April 2015. We've had nine legislatures, we've got a year to run out of 9 legislatures. The first time Parliament passed a law solely oriented to ensure the quality of public services was in this Parliament, and this government has driven it. You will recognize that the position of the Socialist Party when the law was dealt with was picturesque: not only were they opposed to the final text of the law, but their own amendments did not even vote in favour of them. We accepted your amendments and you abstained from the amendments they proposed. You will understand, Your Honor, that many Greeks doubt that the only thing they are interested in is not the quality of public services, but never vote according to the majority. Your Honor, the inspection and evaluation of public services are incorporated into the law and, for the first time, the principle of evaluation forms part of the legal commitments of each of the contractors who manage complementary services. This law establishes a multiannual inspection plan, the first multiannual inspection plan, which will be approved in the coming months. And this law states that the opinion of users must be taken into account in public services and, therefore, demand analysis mechanisms and complaints analysis mechanisms. The first-time recruitment requirements in Galicia allow, for example, heritage liability, in case a concessionaire does not comply with the public service, they allow a system of target payments – i.e., if public services are not met – and allow, ladies, nothing more and nothing less than, for the purposes of the adjudication of subsequent public services, if it has not been complied with during the current public service, they remain outside the contracts. Your Honor, this is on the job of hiring, and that's why I'm surprised you don't even know the German legislation or the Socialist Party's position on it. Your Honor, in health care, with special interest, and so today there are more guarantees and more rights to public health users than when you ruled.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u6	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u7	There's a Star Registry on Previous Instructions, there's a right to the second opinion of a family doctor, a pediatrician and nursing staff, there's a right to the hospital election. Your Honor, today we have a public health with more rights and more quality than in the past. Thank you very much, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u8	Thank you very much. Mr. Méndez Romeo's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u9	Look, Mr. Feijóo, don't tell me, tell those 6,000 that last year they went to Valador to protest for the health conditions; tell everyone who is protesting for health in Ourense – he spoke of it with his absence yesterday. Tell them who are protesting every day at Vigo Hospital and elsewhere in Galicia. Do you think reality changes because they do a paper here and approve it with most of it? But if they're not even applying it, Mr. Feijóo! There is no line of those texts being applied at the current time. And of course the budget speaks for itself. In six years you've withdrawn 4 billion euros from social spending. I will tell you again, Mr Feijóo: you have withdrawn EUR 4 billion from social expenditure. What do you think people are complaining about? What are the professionals telling you every day? But there's more. Look, in the case of social services, we have since complained about the new charges, which cause user casualties, even staff deficiencies in senior residents, with work overloads, worse attention, lack of investment and lack of equipment, as well as material. Over the past month, multiple complaints in outsourced school dining rooms, which even caused termination of contracts. Hey! contracts made with these regulations that you say in force and that, however, show that there was no supervision of the administration – by the way, speaking of dining rooms, I have here notes of public schools of the Lower Rhine –. You're paying some students fees of 4.5 euros per menu and yet you're giving business management in some cases for 3 euros and 6 cents, without IVE. Hey, are they cashing out public services? By the way, in those 3 euros of price on the menu is included the industrial benefit, the actual cost of the menu and also the staff costs. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u10	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u11	Do you really think you can give a suitable menu for less than 2 euros net? Do you know that in ten autonomous communities the menu price is above Galician prices? Don't you worry about the quality of the service in the educational centres, either?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u12	Thank you very much, Mr. Méndez Romeo. The President of the Board has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u13	Your Honor, the VAT must be paid, as you will know. So giving a price without IVE is something like inviting the failure to comply with tax obligations. [[Murmurs.]] Look, Your Honor, I know very well how Ourense's health is, and that's why, when we get to the government, what we did was get 50 million euros to make a new hospital building in Ourense. And by the way, we're going to finish it before the legislate ends. That's why in Ourense there will be a better, wider, and younger hospital with this government than when you were ruling in times of economic kindness. Your Honor, that puts us in that 70% of the Greeks......have a new hospital, an expanded hospital or a new health center in our health area. [[Applause]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Murmurs.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I know very well how the Galician Health Service technology was, and that's why we had to invest 80 million euros in linear accelerators, in magnetic nuclear resonances, in TACs and mammographs, changing the high technology of the Galician Health Service. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I know very well, Your Honor, how the hopes were, and that's why we have half the time today waiting for the serious pathologies that when you ruled. I know very well, Your Honor, that we have to expand the guarantees of public health, and that's why we made the first Law of public health guarantees and put patients' rights; by the way, by reducing the spending on private health that you increased by more than 45% when you were in government. [[Applause]] Your Honor, I know very well how well the welfare state was, and that's why we created 7,800 new public social services squares. I know very well, Your Honor, that we still need more in social services, and that's why we've created a specific councillor for social policy, so we're expanding the nursery bonus, and that's why there's the first family card in Galicia's history in this legislation. Ladies and gentlemen, I know very well how Risga was, and that's why we left the waiting list to zero by the end of 2015. Ladies and gentlemen, I know very well how education was, with great school failure, which has now gone down. I know very well how Galicia was in the PISA reports, now better than before. I know very well how the dining rooms were, Your Honor, and that's why we had to increase them by 23% with respect to what we found ourselves. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] By the way, ladies and gentlemen, I know very well how education was, and that's why tomorrow at the board of directors, we will approve a new expenditure for education, 19 million euros for 100 megas in all public schools in Galicia, Your Honor. That's our commitment to education, and that's our commitment to public education. [[Applause]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I understand that no law had brought me from the nine autonomous communities...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u14	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u15	...where they rule. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Look, Your Honor... [[Murmurs.]] I understand, Madam President, that they ask me why children want computers in public education. They just don't know public education.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u16	Please finish, president.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u17	Ladies and gentlemen, with the humility of a public servant... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u18	It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u19	...but with the self-esteem of being a Greek, the only autonomous community today has a law that guarantees the quality of public services. There is no community governed by the Socialist Party that has promoted a law that guarantees the quality of public services.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u20	Finish, President, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u21	Ladies and gentlemen, why do they have so little respect for teachers, doctors and the rest of the staff? We were proud of teachers, doctors, nurses and all the public service staff. [[Murmurs.]] Thank you very much, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u22	Thank you very much, President. [[Madam Acuña do Campo speaks words that are not perceived.]] Mrs. Hold on. Ma'am! I just don't remember giving you the word, eh! And neither do you. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] We continue... and I remind you that you have two calls to order, Mr. Gallego. [[Mr. Gallego Lomba pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Then wait for the second. [[Mr. Gallego Lumba: One.]] He's got one, but about the second. [[Murmurs.]] Ask Mr. President of the Galician Council of D. Francisco Jesus Jorquera Caselas, of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the complaint lodged by a woman in relation to the president of the Ourense Provincial Deputy
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u23	You have the word, to ask your question, Mr. Jorquera Caselas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u24	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Feijóo, I also tell you with all the humility of a public servant: his attitude to the complaint of sexual harassment against Mr. Baltar is outraged. A real shame, Mr. Feijóo. Look, you're to take charge of your party insults all women. He did it when he said the complainant wanted Mr. Baltar to delinquent and Mr. Baltar didn't do it. In short, you made the victim guilty. As Mrs Quintas has said in this House, to defend Baltar, she has no doubt resorted to the parable of the forbidden fruit. Mr. Baltar became a poor Adam, which all he can blame for is to have succumbed to the fleshly temptation of eating the fruit that Eve offered him. Beautiful! You have also insulted all the women in this Parliament, Mr Feijóo. He did so by devoting much of his response to rebuking the opposition for not asking about important things. In your opinion, the opposition does not bring to this House the main problems of Galicia. I mean, for you, gender-based violence is not one of the main problems in this country. For you, that a public office claims sexual favors in exchange for placement promises is not an important issue. But what world do you live in? Don't you know what the situation is every day with so many women in different areas of their lives? Even at your job? Even to get a job, Mr. Feijóo? Don't you know that sexual harassment is a form of macho violence? Do you not know the Galician Law for the Prevention and Comprehensive Treatment of Gender Violence, which says that sexual harassment includes those conduct consistent with the request for sexual favors, in which the active subject prevails in a situation of job superiority, teacher or similar? Look, Mr. Feijóo, today is November 25, International Day for the Elimination of Violence against Women. Well, the first thing to do to fight macho violence is to end hypocrisy at once, Mr. Feijóo. Less minutes of silence and more action, that's what's necessary. But you, on the other hand, prefer to look the other way when a feudal 2.0 lord still believes himself with a right of eternity. So is it still considering a minor problem that a deputy president is denounced for sexual harassment?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u25	Thank you, Mr. Jorquera. The President of the Board has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u26	Thank you very much, Madam President. Your Honor, I have to tell you a little more about what I've been saying from the very first moment. Fifteen days ago, parliamentary groups brought this issue to the House. You decided to get out of it. And 15 days ago, I answered this House. There's been no news about it since the 15th. Ask me to value a behavior that you've already judged. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Ask me to value a behavior where you've already established the verdict: guilty. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Your Honor, I'm not going into that game. If I tell you, Your Honor, that we will act and act with prudence and firmness in this or any other complaint that any political officer who is part of the party I represent may occur. Prudence to evaluate facts that have just begun to be investigated in the judicial field. Judgement not to pronounce me before any judicial authority does, which is what the complainant's complaint and testimony are. And firmness, of course. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] It is firm to act accordingly, with total consequence, once we have a minimum of information on the complaint. Your Honor, that due caution I think you should be the same as you should have about any kind of politician, either party or other. Fifteen days ago, when this question was being put into substance, police were entering the headquarters of the Government of Pontevedra. These cops, gentlemen, they've requested documentation, they've made records, and they're investigating the heritage of members of the Pontevedra Government. [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Your Honor, I deserve the same respect and presumption as the local government of Pontevedra as any other politician from any political group. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Your Honor, there's no judicial pronouncement, even the prosecutor has made a minimum legal point...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u27	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u28	I want to tell you, Your Honor, don't worry. I'm going to stay here, and you'll find me here to assume the responsibilities that correspond to my party and its members. Yes, Your Honor, you will find me consistently. I'm sorry that once in a while you don't have it. Thank you very much, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u29	Thank you, President. You have the floor for Mr. Jorquera Caselas' reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u30	Mr. Feijóo, you portray yourself in considering that both facts are equal. Look, I do have new things to say, Mr. Feijóo. Because you have a curious way of understanding the presumption of innocence. Look, you apply to Mr Baltar the presumption of innocence, but it does not apply to the complainant, because you accused her of committing a crime. Instigating the commission of an offence, Mr. Feijóo, is a criminal offence under the Criminal Code, and you are accusing her of committing an offence. [[Applause]] You see that Mr. Baltar is not yet charged; that is, you still do not understand the difference between the presumption of criminal innocence and the assumption of political responsibilities, Mr. Feijóo. Did you listen to the recordings? You don't have to listen to the prosecutor. The recordings show that José Manuel Baltar has applied for sexual favors in exchange for pledges of placement. "Of course I'm going to help you, and that promise goes to Mass. At that moment, when I am President, I undertake to do so. If you want something, don't fuck it, fuck it." How do you understand these statements, Mr. Feijóo? Recordings show that the nepotism in the Ourense Deputy continues to bell to its broads. "Your note has to change it. You're going to get more out." Do you understand when you listen to these phrases, Mr. Feijóo? Perhaps you're able to understand that José Manuel Baltar, when he says the complainant will take more notice, is endowed with the gift of clarity. Are you able to understand that? Look the other day in an interview you also said a phrase that portrays him: "I'm not happy with the complaint." I mean, you worry about the complaint, you don't care what you report. That's the problem, Mr. Feijóo. [[Applause]] You, in fact, have a responsibility. You have a responsibility because you are not only president of the Galician People's Party, you are also president of the Galician People's Party. Correct. He demands Mr. Baltar's resignation and initiates proceedings to expel him from his party. Otherwise, indeed, you will be responsible, responsible for protecting a stalker.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u31	The President of the Board has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u32	Thank you very much, Your Honor. I know this place very well. I've learned a lot from this scene, ladies and gentlemen. [[Murmurs.]] Among other things, I learned that the Greeks are a people with common sense, who don't judge before being heard and who believe in the rule of law. And so, Your Honor, I will continue to defend that vast majority of the Greeks who do not distinguish between political creeds to impose responsibilities on people. [[Applause]] And that's why it doesn't matter whether he's a militant or a PP leader, or whether he's a militant or a BNG leader, they all have the same rights. And this president, as you know, is not going to comply with the ethical criteria of the BNG, I'm going to maintain the ethical criteria that I maintained when I was in the opposition and when I was in the government. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applause]] Ask Mr. President of the Galician Board of Da Yolanda Díaz Pérez, G.P. of the Alternative Galaga de Left, about the position of the Government of Galicia in relation to the conversion of the school dining service into a business opportunity that endangers the health of the children's population of Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u33	I'm sorry about the microphones, but I think Mrs. Díaz will have the chance with her microphone to ask the president of the board her question. You have a word for Mrs. Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u34	Thank you, President. Good morning, Mr. President. Let us ask you about a question that I suppose will have occupied much of your time and, above all, that you will have greatly worried the President of the Council of Galicia. We're going to talk about something as sensitive as education and something as sensitive as the children of this country and their food. Let's say that in times of crisis, Mr. Feijóo, you decided to attack one of the most sensitive issues, which is exactly what we are talking about. Since you rule, let's say your characteristics are three: the first of them, which increased the price of school menus by 40%. The second one, which increased to 20% of the families that now have to pay for school menus, went from 8% to 20%. And the third feature is that you're making boxes; and I say boxing because, yes, they now collect much more with this payout or with this payout through the school menus. They have now raised 1.5 million euros to raise 6.7 million euros. But the most serious thing, Mr. Feijóo, is that you say you devise what is a fundamental service for us, which is part of the right to education, which is the right to school dining as a complementary service. When we say it's a complementary service, we're saying that they have a right to it, with compensatory functions -- that is, to solve the problems of social inequality -- both the son or daughter of Pablo Isla and the son or daughter of an unemployed person without benefits from this country. It has to be exactly the same. And as you know, in addition, the redistribution of income does not occur through complementary services, it does exactly through the tax system. Besides, you've been able to make this a real problem. I mean, now we know that there are fermented lentils, that there are fermented broths in the daily life of the schoolchildren's menus in this country. Besides, you say that it victimizes or condemns two substantial parts of this country, which are the ANPAs and the municipalities, who are performing a public service that is not their responsibility, Mr. Feijóo. The competition of school dining rooms, as you know, is from Galician Union. And you know perfectly well that, even if a municipality today wanted to set up a kitchen in a school of Compostela, Ferrol, Neda, from where it had been, Mr. Education Counsellor wouldn't allow it, because it is the title of the Galician board. So, Mr. Feijóo, will you reverse this situation in our country, and will you rightly ensure that this is a complementary service and therefore be public and free for all children who have the right to compulsory education, or will you continue to do business with this issue? Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u35	The President of the Board has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u36	Your Honor, you're talking about the price of school dining, but you forget that 70 percent of the Greek families don't pay anything in school dining. And also forget that the remaining 15% pays a euro. I mean, 85% of the Galician families don't pay a euro for a school dining room. You say everyone has to be entitled to these benefits, and you put the case of top-level world leaders. I disagree, Your Honor. I think high incomes need to have an additional effort to fund low incomes. That's a big difference between the education policy of the People's Party and your educational policy. [[Applause]] You also talk about the price, which is charged at a minimum percentage of the population up to EUR 4.5, and which is Spain's most expensive. You should forget that in Balearics they charge 6.5 euros, that in Navarra 6.5, that in Catalonia 6.20, that in Aragon 5.45, that in Cantabria 4.95. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Your Honor, I don't follow because if I don't have time to answer to the others. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't know if this question is an amendment or not to the food policy of the Town Hall of Santiago. What is clear, seeing how you are during this election period, is that everything is possible. You may want to use me here to discuss the policy of dining rooms in the Town Hall of Santiago, which are outsourced and, by the way, affected to the same company as the Galician Union has resolved the contract. That's why, Your Honor, I won't do what you do. On the contrary, I'm going to give the explanations regardless of what your colleagues do in other municipalities. Your Honor, this debate is over in Europe and it's over in Spain, and it gives me the feeling that you should still be on International III. That one when the Communist Party broke up with the Socialist Party because it wanted to expand the Soviet model to the rest of Europe. Your Honor, I'm going to tell you what Europe does, what Spain does, and what Galicia has been doing for some time. First. The outsourcing of school dining rooms was one of the practices of the two-party government in Galicia. And I'd put that two-party government into a decree of the year 2007 as it was done. Some, with own resources from Galician board, in their own dining rooms; others, with external catering. What we did was simply keep that model and, yes, expand the number of school dining rooms, over 13,000 new squares; that is, 23% more public school dining rooms, and free in 85% of the cases, of those with the previous government. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, that's what we're doing, so I'm surprised you insist that we do what we did before. Previously, those who had school transportation ate free, and those who didn't have school transportation, they didn't have the right to a dining room. Now, Your Honor, even if you don't have school transportation, if your income is low, you have a right to the dining room...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u37	Finish, president.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u38	...and those who have high income, pay a modest amount for eating in the public dining rooms managed by the ANPA or the Town Hall of Santiago and the rest of Galician municipalities. You should know. Don't you remember what you were doing when you were in Ferrol Town Hall? Thank you very much, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u39	Mrs. Díaz's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u40	Thank you, President. Mr. Feijóo, you have been portrayed in your fiscal policy. I'll tell you. Look, those who pay EUR 4.5 in this country, who are many people, many families, make up a per capita income of EUR 1,125 per month, according to the rules you just mentioned. Do you know how much that is on that salary, Mr. Feijóo? Exactly 7.2% in the wages of any worker who is lucky to have a job. If Pablo Isla or Amancio Ortega add 7.2% of his salary income, Mr. Feijóo, you count, because about 1,125 euros, and what Pablo Isla earn according to his model, of course, his society is deeply unfair. You have just been portrayed, Mr. Feijóo, you have just been portrayed. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] The only equality is practised through Article 31 of the Constitution, of fiscal progress, and indeed that Paul Isla does not pay through a 3 % or 5% sysav, this is the key! And when we talk about a compensatory service, we talk about equality. We're talking about a poor child, who exists in Galicia, like next to Pablo Isla's son or daughter, and they both eat the same and have the same education. That's why it's compensatory, Mr. Feijóo. You don't speak any other autonomy here very close to us. Asturias, 3 euros or menu. But that's not it. We understand that since it's a complementary service, it has to be free and it has to affect all children. And, Mr. Feijóo, don't play with Compostela. Because I'll tell you again: if you wanted to perform this service directly in Compostela, you'd stop it, it wouldn't be possible. And I'm done now, Mr. Feijó. You, as Galeano says, are building a social model that goes from stove meals to junk food, to plastic food. And we don't want that society for our children, we want equal education. And we'd like you to tell us if you're gonna change the system or you're gonna keep doing business with it. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u41	The President of the Board has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u42	Your Honor, you have a memorable intervention to defend the provision of free school lunchers for Europe's highest incomes. There you are, Your Honor... No, no, if it's all possible. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] If we see everything now, Your Honor. And that's why I don't know if Podemos, the United Left or Anova are talking about these terms, so as to be in the Journal of Sessions, inspire me to continue to pursue a redistributive policy in the field of school dining, gentlemen. Let's keep doing it, Your Honor. [[Applause]] Look, Your Honor, the concession model is a pretty old model – I told you that since the Third International has expanded in Europe. In Andalusia there are 31 companies providing this service; 31. 55% of Andalusian schoolchildren eat free of charge. In Galicia, 85% of the schoolchildren in Greece pay 15% a euro, and 70% a zero euro. That's why, Your Honor, we're going to continue working in this direction. Why are we moving from school dining rooms with different regiments? Among other things, because since 2013, 2014 and 2015 we have taken up 36 ANPA dining rooms, which now lend themselves directly to the Galician board, so we will continue to expand the number of school lunchers. Look, Your Honor, let's talk about quality in school dining. These are the obligations of concessionary companies: the healthy menus that must be implemented. And this is the last manual. We have two textbooks of school dining the quality of food distribution, the periodicity of food and the guarantee of public services for school dining. [[Murmurs.]] You should know that when someone fails, you automatically terminate that contract. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Your Honor, we're going to continue working, and we're going to continue working to expand the number of school dining rooms. [[Murmurs.]] That's our goal, and I believe that in this objective we are accompanied by most of the population of Galicia. Look, speaking of the quality of public services, a political leader who considers that there are certain South American governments that are rightly guaranteeing the quality of public services in his country, is surprising. [[Murmurs.]] Look, Your Honor, I'm going to tell you a very short story. When I had the opportunity to be received by President Raúl Castro, he asked me a question, among others. He said, "What do you think the Cuban Government has more than 1,100 civil servants? Your Honor, it gives me the feeling that President Castro is much more modern than you. Thank you very much, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u43	We continue with the development of the agenda with point 5 of non-legislative proposals. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. Galician people, at the initiative of Da Rosa Oubina Solla and eight other Members, on the regulation by the Galician Union of equal training, as well as in the prevention and fight against gender violence, from staff to the service of the Self-Government
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u44	This non-law proposal has been amended... silence, please. [[Murmurs.]] Amendments by the Joint Parliamentary Group, the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia and the Parliamentary Group of the Alternative Galga de Left.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u45	Ma'am, may I have a word, please? That's good! In order to formulate the non-law proposal, Mrs Rosa Oubigna Solla has the word for the People's Parliamentary Group. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Quiet, please. Please be quiet, please. [[Mr. Fajardo Recouso pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Mr. Fajardo, you'll have a call to order. Mr. Fajardo, a call to order. [[Mr. Fajardo Recouso pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Do you want the second, Mr. Fajardo? Do you want the second one? Yes, of course, especially with you. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u46	Thank you, Madam President. Today is the day when the International Day of Gender Violence is celebrated. The truth is, it's not a day to celebrate, not just a day for ties either, it's a day to remember. [[Murmurs.]] It's a day, above all, to remember all the women who lost their lives...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u47	Excuse me a moment, Mrs. Solla. I'm sorry. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I ask respect for the person who intervenes in the rostrum. It's Mrs. Oubina right now.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u48	The truth is, I feel and regret that the opposition never likes the People's Party to bring any initiative here. At least I'd like you to respect the same way our group respects when you talk. [[Applause]] So I keep saying it's a day to remember and it's a day to remember all the women who have lost their lives to a batterer, but also to the thousands of women who suffer from silent ill-treatment and who are unable to ask for help. As well as those who are suffering episodes of violence, but they are still unable to recognize themselves as victims of gender-based violence. For all of them and their families, who are also victims, our solidarity, our support and sending them a message of hope from here: that they feel that the whole of society and the public authorities are next to them to put an end to this scourge. Because paying attention to women's dignity for the simple and mere fact of being, whatever kind of violence they use, means destroying every project in the future of a civilized society. Faced with this most extreme manifestation of inequality between women and men, we must fight to eradicate this scourge, intensifying efforts both in prevention, awareness-raising, training, education, as well as in the care and protection of victims. As far as legislation is concerned, in just over a decade, important legislative advances have been put in place by the administrations. Since 2003, the Victim Protection Regulatory Order, which was enacted by a PP government. In 2004, the comprehensive state law, which was passed by a government of the Socialist Party and also supported by the votes of the People's Party. In 2007, the Galician Law passed by a two-party Government, and it was also passed by a People's Party Government. The recent ratification by the Government of the State, the People's Party, of the Istanbul Convention, as well as recently the approval of the Victim's Statute, to recognize and visualize minors as victims of gender-based violence, in order to adopt special protection measures. Since then, strategies have been designed and coordinated at both national and autonomic levels, launched and expanded services, in order to coordinate comprehensive assistance to victims, avoiding at all times the situation of disappearance. And, above all, since the powers of the Council of Galicia come to work and come to focus on three fundamental axes, which are: prevention, awareness and social awareness. It was this government that strengthened the role played by the councils, such as the nearest administration, for the early detection of both cases and situations of violence, and could thus give more effective answers to these forms of terror. Secondly, because it is one of the demands of both the different women's groups and the professionals from different institutions who work both in the promotion of equality and in the care of victims of violence, and who have appeared, as you know, in the non-permanent Equality Commission of this Parliament, and it was the need to continuously expand and improve this training to all the staff of the Administration; that is, the need for professionals to have not only initial training, but also that this training must be continued over time. In this sense, as you know, Article 15 of the Galician law states that the Galician Union will ensure and promote equal training for all and all professionals working directly or indirectly with gender-based violence through specific training programmes that will make available to any entity or department of society in general. So we bring this non-law proposal to the full, and we hope to count on the support of opposition groups for their approval, in which we urge the Galician Union to regulate training in equality, prevention and combating gender-based violence. So, and to finish, with the adoption of this initiative, what is intended is that Galicia will be the first autonomous community, it will be the pioneer of the State, in regular use of a normative instrument, i.e. by decree, the formation of the entire staff of the Autonomous Public Administration in the field of equality and in the field of prevention and fight against gender violence. And I repeat, with this approval, you have made amendments to this non-law proposal. Surely we can come to some agreement. Galicia will be – I say again and repeat – the first autonomous community – will be the pioneer of the state – to be able to regulate, through a normative instrument, the formation of all personnel of the Autonomous Public Administration in the field of equality and in the field of prevention and fight against gender violence. For now, nothing else. Then I'll be positioned on the amendments that have been tabled to this proposal, not by law, the different opposition groups. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u49	Thank you, Mrs. Oubina. Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Iglesias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u50	Good morning, everyone. Good morning, ladies. Good morning to disprove the conduct of a alleged sexual stalker. Good day to reflect the women of the People's Party and take sides and stand in reprobation and condemnation that we are carrying all the women of Ourense, Galicia and this Parliament. Good morning to greet the feminist movement, which is fighting against gender-based violence in all its modalities. I am very sorry, Mrs. PP, that you have to defend today, from feminism, from pseudofeminism, a lacky and empty initiative of content, with all that is raining in the city of Burgas. In line with the necessary specialization and training of the personnel of the Administration related to violence, which must be trained specifically, I propose this amendment with a view to improving and clarifying the text of this initiative. The first station, which can take place in a police station or in a hospital, is very important. That first contact must be in a cordial environment, must provide the battered woman with the assurance that from that moment on she will be and protected by the forces of the state, by the Government – Mr. Feijóo, we represent all the Greeks, and the Greeks, not only her party – and by society in general. The result of this first contact depends in many cases on whether or not the victim decides whether or not to continue with the complaint. Seventy percent of victims of male violence do not report, and of those who do, 20% end up withdrawing it out of fear, shame or lack of support. And one of the things that can happen to him is that the batterer is arrested rightly for a call and that that call receives the battered woman, who then, dead in fear, withdraws the complaint. Security forces know the law, but not reality. Actually, in practice, they don't know what gender violence is. You don't seem to treat the victims either. Lack of specialization, lack of training for the Civil Guard and the Police to properly comply with the protocols of action before a complaint. For example, a proper measure would be to put in place, including gender-based violence, as part of the contents of the police academy and the Civil Guard. The health personnel also need training to detect when the woman who is being treated healthily may be a possible silent victim of masculine violence, and let's say no more in the judicial system. The mistakes are still known to all. We all bear in mind the recent murder of a woman in Verín because of the wrong decisions of a judge who will be unpunished, as Mr Baltar will also be unpunished. And that impunity is the one that keeps us standing up to the feminist movement. [[Applause]] And when it comes to the argument of the false allegations that do not exist, it's inappropriate who would have to be informed and trained on the subject that concerns us. Training is therefore essential, but it is also essential for you to be aware of what gender-based violence is. As long as you are not aware of gender-based violence, this honourable Member does not believe in any of the initiatives either in her speech or in her manifestations, walking them around before the Day of Evil; I don't believe, I don't believe what they do. Training is essential, but it must be given, ma'am, by qualified and sensitized professionals...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u51	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u52	...on the subject of ill-treatment. And also resources and budgets, which do not contemplate this initiative that you bring. But if you were really interested in the fight against ill-treatment and sexual harassment, you would have already reprobated the boy of the PP, Mr Baltar, for his alleged acts of harassment and corruption – which is not only harassment – as you see in the law and a resolution adopted by you in this Parliament as well. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u53	Parliamentary Group of the Alternative Glaga de Left, Mrs Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u54	Thank you, President. The truth is that this initiative is interesting here today, not only because of the splendour experienced in the past with Mr Feijóo, or because of the repetition of his conduct today, but also because, in the past full, we are debating an initiative by the People's Party on the regulations of the CIM, and it turns out that there was precisely an amendment to the alternative Gaga de Left that proposes, among other things, a formative plan from the perspective of gender, coordinated between the CIS, legal agents, forces and security bodies of the state, and yet the People's Party voted against, and today they bring this here. It must be like November 25 because they have to bring the relevant initiative. The problem with this initiative, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, is that it calls for equal training, not equal training. The will of the initiative, if I don't understand correctly, is not to form professionals and professionals, but to make another regulation, which neither guarantees nor budget nor is to provide such training from a point of view, from a perspective, of genre, when the proposal itself is not of law already says that this training is precisely covered by the law of 2007, what happens is that, as we are already seeing, the laws, unfortunately, of gender violence and many others are not being applied, are not being complied with in their entirety. Nor does it speak of the initiative on which conditions this training should take place. I mean, it doesn't contribute anything and it only circumscribeds to its own staff, to its own autonomous community, when we know that training is needed for all public professionals who are also dependent on the central government. The majority of the problem arising from the lack of training lies in the most primary care, as they have just denounced in that commission of collective equality of aid to women, feminist groups and the workers themselves of the CIS, being one of the greatest schools, as they have already moved to their own commission, the complaints offices, where women who have to interfere with the demands for sexual harassment, aggression, etc., are questioned in their own testimony. Or some of the legal agents. It has already been said here that they have to defend and support these women, guarantee effective judicial custody and measures that affect their security and, however, as we are seeing on many occasions, if they violate the right to equal access to justice by women. And that's where we have to give that training and not any training. Training must also be compulsory; fighting against gender-based violence cannot be optional. This is not something we can choose. From the Alternative Left Galicia we therefore present an amendment that sets out four points: First, to plan and coordinate from the Secretariat of Equality – which we understand is responsible for this matter, as set out in the law you refer to, for the prevention and integral care of gender violence – a formative plan – as we have asked last week and you voted against – in collaboration with the Autonomic Administration and with the Administration of the State on macho violence committed to public personnel. That it is guaranteed – secondly – enough budgeting, something that does not come on the initiative of the People's Party and never comes on budgets devoted to gender violence. And, besides, that it's mandatory. The fight against gender violence – I repeat – cannot be optional. Third, let this plan begin working for direct care services to potential victims. For example, it may be primary care emergencies, hospital emergencies and even denouncing offices; from there, little pass, to the rest of the services, but start with those where, let's say, training professionals is more urgent. And point four, to design this plan in collaboration with the CIM itself and social and feminist collectives who work with victims of gender-based violence. It is precisely the people who work daily with women who are victims of gender-based violence who must provide their training to public personnel. This training must also have a gender perspective. There's no other possibility. The Government of the State – we said in the past full – suspends, in addition, in the fight against gender-based violence, suspends in the fight against inequality, and you too, and tells it even to the United Nations itself in that 2015 report. This is not a political game, you can't bring initiatives just because it's November 25th. And, ladies and gentlemen, here are measures. You will choose whether you want to apply real measures or to continue eternally discussing making regulations. They're killing them, so you're the ones they choose.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u55	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Acuña.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u56	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, on this mourning November 25th. Madam, you remind us in your initiative that the 2007 anti-violence self-law established that the Union had to guarantee this training. But if we reviewed the gender impact report of recent budgets, we found that EGAP, in that field of training in equality and violence, in the last year analyzed, which was 2014, only delivered eight courses, with a total of 297 participants – by the way, most women –. So if the law and the report made by the Government itself says it's not going to be done, the logical thing would be to think that you on this impulse initiative had urged the Government to take measures to ensure that formation, but it turns out that the only thing you ask your government to do is that the rule. Once again, we find that we cannot expect any commitment from the People's Party to equality and violence. And, speaking of commitment, I could tell us in the second round where is the commitment that Mr. President of the Union has reached with these marishing victims of violence. I'm saying that we can expect a PP where its main leader, Mr. Mariano Rajoy, during the four years he's been in the State Government, only had time to do three acts in a woman's key: two with the Rural Women's Association and one opening a complaint phone. Three acts in four years; you judge. What commitment can we expect from a PP in which your major and, indeed, at this moment, the only provincial leader, Mr Baltar junior – this if you need this training, Madam – do we not hesitate to promise a job in the provincial institution in exchange for sexual favors, for which you already have an office in a hotel in the city?, of a PP in which your autonomous leader, Mr Feijóo, comes to this House with the laity – do you agree: lacy yes, laity no – but come with the laity to excuse, on a day like today, the attitude of Mr Feijó?, of a PP in which you and the rest of the women seem to agree, Mrs. – that if it hurts – with that repugnant machoism and a PP who thinks he is meeting with the violence of genre bringing today, 25 November, to the Chamber other story, Madam, on equality and violence? Well, look, today, November 25, I'm going to be allowed to tell the story myself; a story that, because of this date, hung on the networks an association that fights daily against gender violence and its thousand faces; a story that has to serve for Mr. Feijóo and all of you to understand that Mr. Baltar's is intolerable; a story that tells the judge's judgment when Caperucita was to denounce the Baltar wolf; a story that says this: Caperucita didn't know that he could find himself with the wolf and was not alien to his hunger or to the dangers of the forest. So if the wolf had offered him the basket of food so that the wolf had calmed his hunger, nothing would have happened. Besides, the wolf doesn't attack Caperucite immediately, there's clear evidence that he first talks to her. And Caperucita, in addition, when she came and saw the wolf in the bed with her grandmother's clothes, did not alarm, and even confuse the wolf with her grandmother; which shows how little she was going to visit her grandmother. She had been very abandoned. Undoubtedly, the wolf, with his answers, was alerting the Caperucite about his intentions. So when the wolf, who no longer knew what else he could do to alert Caperucite, the food, it's because there's no other solution left. Besides, it's highly likely, ladies, that Caperucita had made love to the wolf before and also enjoyed it. And every day it gets stronger the version than when the wolf asked him, "Where are you, Caperucite?" She said, "Washing me to the naked river." It also deserves a paragraph in this judgment to the mother of Caperucita...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u57	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u58	...–Friendly, President, but I think the subject is interesting. Surely Caperucita's mother is guilty of not accompanying her daughter, knowing the dangers of the forest. So, by the way, the Baltar wolf is acquitted, recommending, moreover, that this process does not affect the good name and honor of the wolf lord. Madam, if you want to end judgments like this and with wolves like this, accept our amendment, if not, it will be another story, and there, in the story, you won't find us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u59	Thank you, Mrs. Acuña. Parliamentary Group of the Galician Nationalist Block, Mrs. Adam.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u60	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I'm going to start with Mrs. Acuña's magnificent exhibition with this tale of the wolf, because she reminded me, when she worked in the classrooms with the student, that book -- probably many and many of them have read it -- by Bruno Bettelheim, when she analyzed, from psychoanalysis, the childhood stories. The little goat is just red and comes out red because it is the age of puberty, and his mother tells him: you have two ways, a way, which is the way of the good girls, and the way of the bad girls. And she, who decides to take the path of the bad girls, is therefore penalized; just like you just did. And the society, in addition, whose eximilarity is the wolf, and not the little Capuchin, who decided by itself which way he was going to take. So it's pretty denotative of which are the roles that are being transmitted through culture and across society. In fact, today we are discussing a topic of gender-based violence on 25 November, Madam President, with allusive posters on opposition benches to one of the major problems that you should solve when they talk about gender-based violence, which is sexual harassment. We heard today the president, who, more often than 15 days ago, simply chose to shut up. Well, of course, what you can't say, the only attitude is to shut up. But we keep waiting, we'll keep waiting and we'll wait in the street too for you to explain why you're complicit in sexual harassment. Look, Madam, we, from our parliamentary group, are thinking of introducing an amendment that was simply to comply with the law, nothing more. Because you bring us... I don't know if you call it smoke... what exactly is it that you're bringing us here today? What kind of training? What do you want when in Article 15 it clearly collects the law: the formation of all professionals and professionals, of all areas, of the area of the Greek administration, of the field of security forces and bodies, of legal operators. And your obligation, the Government's obligation in this case – not yours, you support the Government as a parliamentary group – is the obligation to form these professionals. If you bring the lines of the decree here, if you bring the training plan, we discuss it; we can include our contributions, but, of course, tell us that something is done that the law already requires... is that, as the previous ladies have said, the courses in the EGAP are the minimum, the formation of the General Secretariat of Equality for the different collectives is the minimum. The College of Psychology, the College of Social Workers, social educators, are demanding this training. Madam, look, there is a serious problem in Vigo in the case of violence. I was with people working on the psychosocial team on Friday, and you know that because, in addition, those people came out to the press demanding the situation. They depend directly on the Government, they depend directly on the Imelga. What's the situation they put on the table? They've been late for 18 months in the preparation of reports for lack of personnel. You, and the Government, Mr. Rueda, on which this decision depends, have been on the table exactly this for a year, which has put the first written to the Galician board of the situation of the psychosocial teams, which cannot make the reports. Of course, you're talking about training, in which we all agree, that you have the law, and that you tell us that this is the priority, when you have trained professionals, committed, who are doing extra hours, not paid, but volunteering hours to get the reports forward, telling you that you have the judgment collapsed – collapsed! – since every day three women come in to make a complaint... They have collapsed, and until – and I read textually – they say: "We understand that, as a first urgent step, taking into account the number of cases accumulated, which is an average delay of 18 months to report between the two teams, it is necessary to strengthen at least two teams plus a year. In the medium term it is necessary to increase staff, at least, with one more team." That's what we can talk about, that's what we can really try to take a step forward. In the formation – which we welcome – we are absolutely in agreement, we will see for whom, as long as parameters and with what objectives. In fact, we can have a very theoretical debate about what kind of training must be given to professionals, if prior to opposition, if later in their job, as they wish. I believe that, in addition, we have discussed this in the Committee on Equality. But today you have serious problems on the table in the courts of gender violence, denounced by psychosocial teams and by the judge of gender violence, and today you talk about training, Mrs. Oubina... with all due respect, collects what the judge has put out through the media, listen to the psychosocial teams and at least give staff to the judges. Then we have another initiative; we will continue to talk about gender-based violence. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u61	Thank you, Mrs. Adam. Author group of the proposal, Mrs Oubina.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u62	Thank you, Mr. President. The truth is that I am sorry, Mrs Acuña, that measures against gender-based violence seem like a story to you. I think it's a little irresponsible message about the victims, because we believe that the only wolf to fight, of course, is the wolf of gender violence, of violence against women. [[Applause]] This initiative, ladies and gentlemen, is not only to regulate training, but also to provide and extend a training offer on a continuous and permanent basis, as has been requested by all the groups who have come to the committee of this Parliament, the non-permanent Commission of Equality. We all know that professionals who do this work on issues of gender equality and violence must believe this training. In that sense he also made Mrs Iglesias an amendment. But there are still specific activities in the area of gender-based violence directed at management personnel, as has been said here, from local authorities, from the Administration of Justice, from psychological care, as well as from other professionals. But what we want is not only to regulate, but to expand, and that enlargement is continuously extended to all professionals and professionals who carry out their work in defence and in the struggle of gender-based violence. As for the position on the amendments tabled by the groups, we are no doubt prepared to reach some kind of agreement. In this sense, I want to say that on the part of the Socialist Party we are prepared to admit how it adds point 2 of its formation: that it is continuing in time and that it is subject to periodic assessments. In that sense, if you like it, we're willing to admit point 2. With regard to the amendment presented to us by the AGE as a replacement, we would be willing, as an addendum, to admit point 3 and point 4 as drafted. And, in point 1, Mrs Solla, we would be willing to, when you refer to the Self-Government and the State Administration, as the Galician Union really has no competence in the State staff, offer it also to the State staff. If you feel that way too, we would also be willing to accept point 2 of the amendment to the AGE. And as for the Joint Group, we have to say that we are not going to accept it, because what we do not want is to outsource training, but what we want is to expand and optimize those resources. As I have no more time, nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u63	Thank you, Mrs. Oubina. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. on the initiative of Mr. Juan Manuel Fajardo Recouso, on the action to be taken by the Government of Greece and the demand to be made to the Central Government in relation to the protection and inclusion of long-term unemployed persons, in particular those over 45 years of age
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u64	This motion for a non-law has been tabled with an amendment by the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u65	For the defence of the proposition, Mr. Fajardo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u66	Good morning to all and to all. When the society and the whole of the citizenship of this country is immersed in debates about terror, about unity, about the indivisibility of the state, under that capillary there are problems and brutal dramas that are forgotten by political action, and it should not be so. They should be up-to-date and on the priorities of governments that they consider themselves to be at least human. Problems like what we are discussing today in this AGE initiative that raises the need to protect, help and, of course, find employment for those people who have been unemployed for more than a year, long-term unemployed, and also for those people who have lost their jobs and are unemployed for more than 45 years, which we all know have enormous difficulties in returning to the labour market. These people are focused on frustration and despair because of their neglect. They are people forgotten by the authorities, forgotten by the labour market and condemned, in many cases, at the threshold of poverty, social exclusion and, of course, they will no longer find a job until the day of their retirement. So since the Public Administration, not only has to narrow down this situation, but it has to help make it visible, so that they themselves recognize and know that there are alternatives and that, therefore, it is the Administration who has to work to make these alternatives a reality. But this requires resources, not just words, real resources that they contemplate from training to occupation directly also in public administrations. But above all, we must overcome the active employment policies for people who are long-term unemployed and older than 45 with social policies that allow them to be included in society and not the despair that these people are being targeted, that they find themselves at a vital moment in which they are not only responsible for their daily life, but that in many cases they encounter small children or that they have to study; therefore, the difficulties are not only for them, but for the whole of society, who find in this situation a tragedy that has to have a solution. In view of this, the People's Party has achieved everything else, and the data is very, very clear. Since the arrival of Feijóo to the Government, there have been brutal increases, almost 46% more, the people who are long-term unemployed. When Feijóo arrived in the Government there were 90,600 long-term unemployed people in this country, today there are about 131,000 people who have been unemployed for over a year. So 46% increased by the percentage of people in this situation. And in addition to increasing long-term unemployed people, the People's Party has been able to protect them, and today only 42% of all the people who are unemployed in this country receive some kind of benefit. I mean, more than half of the workers who are unemployed today and the workers who are unemployed today receive not only any kind of benefit but also that they are out of any positive action measure to reintegrate them into the labour market. The long-term unemployed are therefore subjected by the People's Party to a continuing beating on their dignity, on their rights and on their ability to have a job again. And the facts are what they are, because since the People's Party resumed the Government of the State and the Government of the Council of Galicia – which it seems they never had, it seems that all the blame is for others, but they've been ruling all their lives in this country – it turns out that what they did for this was all the opposite of what even the economic and social councils, both in the state and in Galicia. The first was to reduce unemployment benefit. Today, unemployed people receive 10% less unemployment benefit than they received before the People's Party decision. They cut off the active income of insertion, which today is only for people who have worked at some point and earned the allowance, but it's also eliminated for those people who have no family responsibilities. They cut off the aid at age 55 because before, starting at 52, they could access this aid, which today is for over 55. But they also cut out the long-term unemployed aid for young people, because there are also long-term unemployed young people, and to these the basic income of emancipation was cut by 30%. The People's Party is therefore in compliance with what has been raised since the ESC, which is that, in order to address the problem of long-term unemployment, two measures must be taken. The first is to give them social coverage. Faced with the social coverage demanded from the ESC, you, cuts and drowning this collective. And secondly, the need to complete social policies with active employment policies but addressed to this collective, i.e., individualists and clearly contemplated for a collective that has been in the labour market for many years and now has enormous difficulties in returning to it; therefore, it has very significant and distinct conditions for other people who are in unemployment. The People's Party announced in January, through Feijóo, the use of EUR 85 million of the public budgets of the Galician Union for a long-term employment plan. Today we want to know what evaluation the People's Party makes of that plan. How is it possible that this assessment means that today we have more than 46% long-term unemployed than when Mr Feijó's legislation began? How could it be that these long-term unemployed people today are sentenced to poverty wages or, in any case, if they find a job again, almost for the broth? Because that's the reality of the labour market for unemployed people who have been unemployed for more than a year. So in those announcements you'll have to move what are the solutions, because from Alternative Gaga de Left we don't think the solution is to encourage companies by means of help to hire people, because companies that have to hire are going to do the same, regardless of whether they receive help. What we have to do is make it easier for these people to go on a sufficiently useful route, but especially for them to stay in the public administration so that it will be the public administration itself, the engine of re-integration into the labour market of many of these workers, who are in many cases those sectors that have been shot at at the moment. Sectors like wood or construction are those that have a large part of these long-lasting stops. And what you offer them in many cases are training courses in wood and construction, precisely sectors that are unable to absorb more jobs. There is no kind of help, for example, for these collectives to join the farm, to join the fishing, to enter the sea. On the contrary, a whole wrong reintegration policy and that the only thing you're looking for is to increase the army of unemployed people. I've already said here on one occasion that I don't think the People's Party is wrong in its policies, I don't think it condemns this collective for anything, but it does so that this collective pressure on its boys to renounce decent working conditions. The greater the army of unemployed people in this country, the more despair there is in that army of unemployed people, the less labor rights, the less wages and the less their safety at work. Working in this country – we explained yesterday – is increasingly precarious, cheaper and more dangerous, too for this collective. So we asked them two questions today. The first is to increase the social protection of the collective. It cannot be that people who have paid 30 or 40 years in this country today are found without any kind of benefit, who have zero euros of income when they are an important part of the recovery and situation that this country had years ago. It is not acceptable for this collective to be expelled from the lowest rights, even from Social Security. And, on the other hand, these active policies, which can't help multinationals to exploit them, but help training and help create jobs directly for this collective in sectors that today in Galicia can still generate jobs, which we all know they are, but the People's Party doesn't want to use, as industry can be, but as it may be, above all, the primary sector, one of the most unemployed sectors that has been created since the People's Party in Galicia and the state as a whole. So today they have the opportunity, and, of course, I hope an assessment will be made of where are those 85 million euros promised by Feijóo for the Long-Term Employment Plan, especially those over 45 years old. And, above all, I'd like to know what the People's Party's commitment to eradicating those cutting policies that condemn our workers. It has been said that, as I said earlier, they go in all areas of social benefits for the unemployed, from unemployment to unemployment to anyone, which is reduced by 10%, to the possibility of accessing the aid for older than 52, which they had before and today has to be only for older than 55 years. So we are faced with a social drama that is out there, that is hidden under other situations, under other debates, that is not up-to-date with the political agenda of a People's Party that should have this among its priorities, but which, of course, is a People's Party accustomed to beating on the back of the workers, simply because it defends other interests that are not those of the social majority. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u67	Thank you, Mr. Fajardo. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u68	Thank you, President. Good morning to all and to all. I want to begin by lamenting the lack of commitment by the People's Party to equality and the fight against gender-based violence, which has a great deal to do with this issue of unemployment of over 45 years of age. And I say that because I asked my motion yesterday to vote on point 5 separately. And I didn't ask for it as a whim, I asked 'cause number 5 called on Junta to call on employers and trade unions to collect in collective bargaining the recommendations collected in the Guide to Good Practices in the Field of Equality for Collective Negotiation. I mean, a document that should take many years to end gender discrimination within the world of work. But it was also requested that, within those measures that might be included in this guide of good practice, work should already be done on measures to prevent and combat gender-based violence in the world of work, harassment at work and to achieve equal pay and opportunities between men and women. You, men and women of the People's Party, voted against agreeing against collective bargaining measures against violence. And I'm just reading the point of the motion that was voted on separately, and you voted against setting the guide to good practices, against gender violence, labour harassment and for equal pay and opportunities between men and women. You voted against, and today they come here with an initiative that says nothing. Training. You're always in the same way, a job reform that brought the working class to poverty and which is yours, which gave all the weapons to the employer and left the working class without rights, without right or collective bargaining. We've been in this country for four years with collective bargaining closed, and that's thanks to the measures taken by the People's Party. And we're talking about long-term unemployed, long-term unemployed, people over thirty years quoted, more than thirty, people who started working at 16, 17 and 18, that their company has shut down or made an ERE, and that they're going to be poor pensioners because they haven't paid for the last fifteen years. And you don't care. But there are also those long-term unemployed who are around 30 years old, who have children, children, children and children, and who live in poverty because you allow them to be in this situation. And because you're the only one doing it is bragging about the precarious, part-time and poor wages this country has when they say it's creating jobs. They're really depressing. I'm going to support this initiative, but I also tabled an amendment, and I am proposing an amendment so that these pensions are not also diminished because of their policy. Because their politics is not for today, it's going to have an impact on the next thirty years of these people. So in my amendment, what I'm asking is that the Central Government be urged to make the necessary legislative changes to ensure that for long-term unemployed people the years of unemployment without contributions to Social Security count as quoted for retirement, sickness or invalidating accident, and their basis for the last quoted quote. Because also, for them to be granted disability in case of common illness or common accident, they're going to be asked to pay 180 days in the last five years, and otherwise they have no right to that pension. So you're taking measures of impoverishment, for many years, of the working class. Waiting for the amendment to be accepted and understanding that the People's Party, within its anti-social and macho policy, will vote against this initiative, nothing more and many thanks.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u69	Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. Mrs. Prado. [[Mrs. Martínez García speaks words that are not perceived.]] Quiet, Mrs. Martínez, quiet. [[Mrs. Martínez García speaks words that are not perceived.]] Quiet, Mrs. Martínez, you've finished your shift. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Quiet, please. Bloc Parliamentary Group. Mrs. Prado, please. [[Murmurs.]] Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u70	If they finish well...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u71	Mrs. Prado and Mr. Beiras! Mrs. Prado, you have to speak to Mrs. Prado about the Nationalist Block in Wales. Whenever you want, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u72	When they leave me, anyway.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u73	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u74	Well, good morning to all and all. Yesterday the People's Party Member, Mr Tellado, said that in Galicia there had been a 10% decrease in the last year in long-term unemployed, and that the long-term unemployed plan was already in progress. The truth is that this statement is surprising when the data is more than teimuth, because what are those policies, those long-term stop plans? What are you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, beyond the fact that those who are in front of the European Union are deciding which are the strategic sectors, decide that they are going to allocate funds, the Spanish State memethically picks up that decision and the German Government to apply enthusiastically? Because there is no economic recovery policy in Galicia, there is no change in the production model in Galicia, there is no single wager in Galicia by strategic production sectors in our country, there is no bet on action in sectors which would have to create jobs, which, if there is no job with a minimum quality, if there is no job being created, there is obviously no reintegration policy, there is no policy of placement that is worth, and less for these long-term unemployed. With which, once again, headlines and milongs. The author of the initiative referred to long-term unemployed over a year, who are officially considered long-term unemployed. But I'm going to refer to a bigger drama, which are the unemployed who have been unemployed for more than two years. I mean, the number of Welsh people with more than two years of unemployment in Galicia is increasing, it's at most historical. The long-term and very long-term unemployment, because we could also refer to people who have been unemployed for more than three years now, of course, is tremendous. And it's tremendous because it's also becoming structural, and it's tremendous because it's also chronicizing. The destruction of stable and more or less profitable jobs is being replaced by little or very short-term employment, the multiplication of rotation and people who are going through continuously from sector to sector, which makes it extremely difficult for people who come from totally dismantled sectors, from sectors in crisis, to find some kind of placement. At the beginning of the crisis, Galicia had been unemployed for over two years without 14% of the unemployed. In 2011, they went to 20% and now there are 4 out of 10, with which that claim they're decreasing, please see if I can bring the data here. They already represent almost half of the people who are unemployed, unemployed and long-term unemployed who are without entitlement to unemployment benefits or benefits. And by the way, the state is cashing, because by lowering the entitlements to the benefit, what it does is that Galicia is receiving 300 million euros less than the average for the unemployed and the unemployed in Greece. Because they have the right to less benefits and they have the right to less benefit time. To this it should be added that, with this poor labour market where there are people who are incarcerating contracts of such short duration, in very many cases they do not even generate rights to collect these benefits; with which, in fact, more people stop, more unprotected and the state making cash. What do we have to add to this? The discouragement and absence of such benefits result in thousands of people who have been unemployed for a long time are disenfranchised from registering in the unemployment lists. It could be more than 30,000 people who have been unemployed for more than two years, who are no longer registered in the lists of the Greek employment services, with which they no longer compete. Reality: more than 100,000 Germans and Greeks who lack any kind of unemployment coverage. Reality: 95,000 homes where all their members are unemployed. Reality: 35,000 homes that don't enter any income. That's the reality of thousands of people in Galicia who see how they spend days, how they spend months, how they spend years and they don't find jobs. And besides, their life expectancy is shattered by that situation. And today, November 25, I want to make a special reference to the fact that in this situation women are the ones who carry one of the worst parts. Because if long-term unemployment is tremendous at all levels, in the case of women, the situation on the labour market is even worse. The wage gap in Galicia is more than 24%. And today, November 25, violence against women is also that they don't have a decent job, that they don't have a decent pay, that they don't have decent working conditions. The population occupied in Galicia has decreased between 2011 and 2014 by almost 6%, women in Galicia have ten points under men, and, I insist, the situation in Galicia is a 14% wage gap. With which we will support this initiative, because if the overall unemployment situation is dramatic, the unemployment situation of people who have been 1, 2 and 3 and even more years in unemployment can already be described as tremendous.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u75	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Quintas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u76	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, let's talk again about employment – better said, lack of it – and precarious situations. The budgets of the Union and also those of the state for 2016 give their backs to the unemployed and the workers of this country. The proof of this is the reduction in unemployment benefits. The 50-year-olds were going to receive a report from the press recently from their future pension, and it seems they haven't arrived. I suppose the People's Party in the middle of the electoral campaign is ashamed that the older 50s know, we know, what our future is going to be and what the rights and policies of the People's Party are programmed. Seven out of ten unemployed have no public support, while the government is saying and presenting itself saying that they prioritize social spending. But it's another lie, a lie that stands perfectly behind the publicity and propaganda of the People's Party but which cannot be held by looking at the budgets and looking at their execution. The Socialists too, of course, are going to support this initiative. We have asked on several occasions to extend the unemployment allowance to people with long-term unemployment unemployment. Without any kind of response from the People's Party; as I said before, just advertising and propaganda. But then the real program of the People's Party reads in budgets, reads about people in poverty and working precarious conditions, and sees the execution of their budget. The predictions of the Government of the People's Party, which was to lower the unemployment rate of 20.1% in 2015, clearly explains its policy, a policy, as I said yesterday, which reduces everything to go on, trying, not to say... today we looked at the questions to the president as the president did not answer at all any of the questions of the opposition, when he stood as a spokesman. It's really what he does: he asks the opposition, he attacks, he doesn't give or justify his seven years of government; seven years of political rule of the People's Party making promises and a disappointing result, in which the most outstanding in the Employment Council were frauds in training courses, frauds, illegal financing policies for the People's Party through training courses, which return to the lecture. And what's the balance? The balance is that unemployment has increased in more than 100,000 people, it has reduced the occupied population, wage perceptions are the lowest and do not compensate for inflation, there has been a galloping process of precariousness, youth is leaving this country and nobody cares, it seems that the solution is – said the minister – that there are university students, when perhaps, I don't know, at the moment we are not the country of Europe that has the most university students. But it seems that the Minister of Education wants to adapt the jobs he wants to offer, he wants to adapt them to youth. It's a real shame. It's a shame that international reports say we're in work poverty, while the People's Party is on the other hand, while the People's Party is covering their backs to sexual bullies, while the People's Party is hiding the indecency of institutional representatives, because today, Day against gender violence, the president continues without asking Mr. Baltar to go home to the hotel, but to stop drowning Ourense and the province of Ourense. That's the job the People's Party understands. When the President of Galicia, when the Members of the People's Party are worth it...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u77	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u78	...the policies of Mr Baltar, decimononics, because they use the Deputy as if it were their estate, they offer it. And now, lastly, to facilitate employment, the right of eternity. Shame!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u79	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u80	And the women of the People's Party should say something, even though they had been in private, because neither in private. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u81	Thank you, Mrs. Quintas. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Trenor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u82	Thank you very much, President. You know, and I don't think I'm discovering anything new to you, that a year ago we had a tremendously difficult situation. We were a country that had higher inflation than that of the rest of the countries around us, which led us to a very important loss of competitiveness of our companies, a loss of markets and also a loss of economic activity. An extremely indebted country, which didn't produce what was being consumed, but it was important. And consequently, we had a negative balance of payments, Mr. Garcia. And in case I hadn't, to complete the perfect storm, we had an uncontrolled deficit, a deficit uncontrolled by the increase in expenditure and also by the reduction in income; a public debt that grew so much less than its costs, the cost of debt increased by the increase in its volume and also by the premium, as a result of mistrust over our country. The consequence of all this, ladies and gentlemen, is the destruction of employment, the destruction of employment, unemployment, unemployment and more unemployment. So much so that we had to stop him from being called to death: youth unemployment, long-term unemployment, female unemployment and, of course, no one would be surprised if I said that he was accompanied by more precariousness, more homes with all his members on unemployment, and with more poverty. And I remind you that the main cause of poverty is unemployment, and your model, gentlemen, the model on the left, creates unemployment. And, therefore, creates and chronics poverty. Mrs. Martínez, listen a little, please listen a little, and don't call me violent; and less with your trajectory and with your profile, please. You approve of the working class. I don't know what you worked for, I do know what I worked for. But I'm telling you one thing, you can only represent in this Parliament those who have been harmed, those who have been hurt, and those who have faced Mrs Díaz, to that and nothing but that. [[Applause]] You love to say, after all, that you have no responsibility whatsoever, that everything is responsible for the global economy, markets, monetary policy. And now, lately. They even blame the cycle. But that cycle also affects the rest of the countries around us, and those countries didn't destroy jobs like in our country. However, ladies and gentlemen, I'm making a proposal. You make a regression model with two variables: unemployment and party that governs. The conclusion is tremendously interesting, there is a very strong correlation between who governs and unemployment. When the left ruling the correlation is positive, unemployment increases, and I suppose they know what the opposite is of that conclusion: that when the People's Party reigns there is less unemployment. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u83	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u84	In short, I'm telling you that when the People's Party rules – and it's not a novelty – it lowers unemployment. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] It has happened with the Socialist Party, which has increased unemployment by 1,050,000 people. President Aznar dropped in 1.5 million. With the Socialist Party of ZP – the one of full employment – unemployment has grown to 3,500,000 people, and now with the People's Party, with Mr. Rajoy, it is decreasing unemployment. And that's not just what I'm saying, is that you're telling us also the reading that EPA, the EPA of the third quarter, that if we compare it to last year's data, what you say, Mr. Fajardo – and these are the real data and not the data that you bring, that I don't know where they come from – is that unemployment has dropped by 13.7%. Today there are 35,000 unemployed less, the number of homes where all their members are unemployed has been reduced by 17%. Youth unemployment has been reduced by 7% in the last year. 17,000 other young people working a year ago, a year ago they were unemployed
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u85	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u86	And, Mr. Fajardo, do we think that's enough? No, it's not, and that's why you're asking us to put it in motion. The Long-Term Job Activation Plan has been enabled. The aim of this plan was to provide the beneficiaries with specific content of guidance, training, retraining and recognition of work experience, while these people received economic assistance. And we don't expect you to bring this plan to Parliament, that plan is already being implemented. Galicia was the first community to put in place additional measures to improve the employability of long-term unemployed, measures that have also just been reinforced with an increase of more than four million euros, an increase that will enable the actions to be strengthened within the framework of this programme. Mr. Fajardo, he said that the data you use is not true...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u87	Finish, please. I'm controlling time and it's quite balanced, as always yes, yes, I'm clear. [[Murmurs.]] Go finish, Mr. Trenor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u88	I suppose Mrs. Martínez is also interested in knowing something about this. Regarding long-term unemployment – which you use the data – I want to remind you that unemployed people who have been unemployed for another year have a very important drop, in particular they come down to 17,000 people, 13.5% compared to last year. Ladies and gentlemen, to conclude, we have very clear what our priorities and those of the Galician Union are in improving employability, and these priorities are focused on the long-term unemployed, those under 30 years of age and those at risk of exclusion. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u89	Thank you, Mr. Trenor. For the author group of the non-law proposition, Mr. Fajardo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u90	The truth is, I'm really sorry about the placard that puts Mr Trenor here, which gives him a role... and he doesn't even read the AGE initiative. And he also comes to teach economic and employment lessons which he was director of the Iron Plan, which we see as Ferrol is. What is most responsible for Plan Ferrol, director – who knows what it is to be employed by the People's Party – comes here to teach jobs; the region that worst job data shows in Galicia. So, you, few lessons, few lessons. By the way, if you tell me that the data is false, tell the IGE to give false data. The data I give are from the IGE. When you arrived at the Government of Galicia, there were 90,000 long stops, and today there are 131,000. At the rate of long-term dropouts compared to last year, we would take at least as long as 2021 to reach the 90,000 long-term stops that existed when you arrived at the Government. So you can't tell me here that things are done in the right way. And what I was asking him is, what does that plan mean for the 45-year-olds? I'm going to give you a data, because our initiative said one thing: protection for the unemployed over 45. Every month, in Galicia alone, 42 million euros are spent less on contribution unemployment benefits, 42 million euros. All over the year, we have 462 million euros less dedicated to the protection of the unemployed. What does that mean? That we are stealing from the unemployed in this country 462 million euros each year, that we take them out of their pockets and, therefore, their families, and we are, in return, setting up a programme of 85 million euros for long-term unemployed that we don't know what it consists of and that leads us to absolutely unbearable figures, with 46% more than when you arrived at the Government. So what is the People's Party's balance in this sense? They steal 400% more than they do for long-term unemployed people, who are unable to understand that there is a need to protect this collective who has difficulties with reintegration, and who are also unable to improve an employability plan that repeats the old formulas that have failed. Those old ways that identify two things: that the one that failed and had to leave because his company shut down in the construction teach him Albanianry, and that he had to leave his carpentry road company again teach him carpentry. Who are they taking the People's Party's hair off? I'm sorry you had to do this paperwork and read a paper that you didn't even understand. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u91	On the amendment of the Joint Group, will you accept the amendment? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Thank you. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da María Teresca Paz Franco, on the constitution by the Government of Galicia of a commission to follow up the agreements adopted in Madrid to deal with the situation of the dairy sector and the implementation of proposals to resolve its problem
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u92	No amendments have been tabled to this non-law proposal. For the defense of it, you have the word of Mrs. Paz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u93	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. The President of this Parliament has just stated the content of this initiative. The only thing that is intended through this initiative is that the Council of Galicia is a follow-up commission not only to ensure compliance with the agreements, but also since Galicia makes proposals on the measures to be taken to improve the situation in the dairy sector. As he also announced to us that there are no amendments, I, because I am a very intuitive person, I suppose that means that, being so simple in its formulation, this initiative will count on the favourable vote of all parliamentary groups and that, therefore, today from this Parliament we are going to tell the Rural Media Adviser – who meets tomorrow with the Lacteo Sector Defense Platform – that will go to this meeting with producers' representatives in an open position to establish that area of dialogue and negotiation, which would be that follow-up commission, or in any case as the Government of the Galician Union would like to call it. Why is a follow-up commission needed? First, because of the political dignity of this country, because Galicia, according to the Autonomy Statute, has full powers in the field of livestock, also has full powers in the field of internal trade, and therefore it is not understood from any point of view that Galicia, having these powers, because it has nothing to say about the solution of the milk sector's problem. Second, because there are still different visions about the virtuality and usefulness of the dairy agreement that was signed in Madrid on September 23. I won't qualify that agreement today, I have it here, and we could go paragraph by paragraph, and look at what the consequences of the agreement are. But I'd rather give a series of data for everyone to set the evaluation they consider appropriate. Almost two months after the signing of the agreement, the average price in Galicia remains 27 cents per litre. Almost two months after the signing of the agreement, no industry that usually operates in Galicia is expected to raise milk prices in a significant way – that means 2 or 3 cents, we don't think we're talking about multiplying by 2–, at least by the end of March. Two months later, we have, for example, that Lactalis, which is the company that collects most in Galicia – about 25% more or less of production – maintains the same prices that he had before the signing of the agreement; we have to have Celta Milk, which collects 5.5 % or 5.6% of the milk that is produced in Galicia, says that the contracts that will offer the owners in December will not be raised; therefore, not even by the end of March. And we have a problem that we probably only have in Galicia, and that's all that would justify that we had a follow-up commission and a specific political action in Galicia. We have livestock, about 20% of production, that sell to Cistercists, the first buyers, in which, ladies and gentlemen, in most cases we continue to be priced under 25 cents, even reaching 22 and 24 cents in these cases, and that not only will they go up but they have no vision that their price problem will be solved. But we still have some other circumstances, which I don't know if that indicates that the deal is working or not working, but in any case that's happening. Industry, in exchange for that average average rise since September, also increased the quality requirements to the livestock, and all put more or less 3.7% of the fat matter and 3.1% of the protein. And what they did, ladies and gentlemen, was to raise penalties for not meeting those quality criteria, reaching those penalties, in most contracts, around 5 cents per litre. I mean, if you have a contract of 27 cents but you don't have a month to those quality indices, the price is 22 cents. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, judge whether the agreement is working. Another data: last October 26th, the East Inlac study was published in relation to the operation of the chain. The conclusion of Inlac – that is from the state as a whole, and it must be borne in mind that here we have very lower prices of milk in origin and the costs of feeding are similar – says that farms lose an average of 2.3 cents per litre of milk they produce. And here, to calculate the profits, they count the sale of the jets, etc. And the Inlac itself comes to the conclusion that this is unsustainable, impossible, maintaining milk production. The Director General, Mr. Miranda, said on day 12: "There have already been improvements, but the main effects will be noted in the medium term, when commitments between industry and distribution are put into practice." The Director General of the Ministry himself is recognizing that the agreements between industry and distribution have not yet been incorporated into practice and therefore have no effect. So for now the 23rd accord, even in those small aspects where he could expect some progress, is a real wet paper. The Director General himself, and the Secretary General, Mr Cabanas, announced last week that the decree – which in the 23rd September agreement makes it imminent – to establish the margins between distribution and industry, as soon as possible, will be for the first quarter of next year. We don't know anything yet about the approved contract for when it's going to be. You don't know anything, you still don't have any element to know, at what time the Administration will have instruments to be able to sanction the breaches of the agreement they reached in Madrid. And in this context, the Middle Rural Counsellor, in addition to telling us that everything is going wonderfully and that this is going to be resolved in advance of the payments of the CAP, went to Madrid to visit Mrs. Tejerina, and instead of making claims, to make proposals on behalf of the Welsh milk sector, the press release of the Board of Galicia on this visit to Madrid, which tells us is that the Councillor tells the Minister that the Government of the Union wants to express the confidence that the milk agreement has a positive impact on prices. Trust me! But, ladies and gentlemen, here we are talking and playing with the livelihood of thousands of people in this country and what the advisor will move to the minister is trust. Let's all put on a candle to see if the prices for milk go up. And I also tell the counselor – who is very generous with the minister – that we must give him time to see his fruits, and that we also thank him deeply for the management by the Ministry. Look, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, you can come here and from this rostrum disqualify what gives them the desire to oppose, you can say that we are what they want, that we lie what is not in the writings, that we say nothing more than nonsense, that we are wrong, that we speak of hearings, that we don't know about geography, that we don't know what a cow is, whether it has 5 ceilings or 4, that we don't know anything. They can say what they want, but the reality, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, is at 9,300 dairy farms in this country. The reality is in the thousands of people who live directly or indirectly in the dairy sector, and who know that what we're saying is true.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u94	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u95	The reality is in the dairy producers who are telling the Union and the Government of the State that the 23rd accord not only applies to nothing but is not being fulfilled even in the smallest things that could be expected to advance. And what they're asking, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, is that, instead of continuing here, in a permanent election campaign, trying to blind people, to do something about the dairy sector, that, if they care about anything, this country, once and for all, do something about the dairy sector. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u96	Thank you, Mrs. Paz. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Iglesias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u97	Thank you, President. This is a very important subject in this Parliament, without any political solution being reached by the Group of the People's Party, it is quite obvious. Greed farms are in a limited economic situation. Thousands of families who live directly and indirectly from the production of milk in Galicia are assisted by dismantling and also by the precariousness of the sector, but with the anguish that causes them the prospect of a black future, an uncertain future for theirs and theirs. The dairy sector is in many areas – known by all – a strategic sector, both at the level of employment and from the economic point of view, from the social or management point of view of the territory. The terrible crisis in this sector affects many Welsh people who live in our rural areas, many of them. And the source – there have been others – of this crisis is in a bad place at the beginning of the dairy package by the industrial sector. This has contributed to an unprecedented situation in Spain in no European Union country. And this situation worsened in particular in Galicia, bringing as a result the uncollected threats, the garbage contracts, which became 18 cents per litre, and were the ruin of many gloves, which had to be closed. Conditions seem to have improved, but they've improved why? Because they mobilized. Mobilizations and tractors. Something's improved. They increased prices, but this didn't mean that they had been paid more to the gangs. Do not use milk as a claim product, put in value of the Galician brand, CAP aids... but are short-term measures that do not ensure the survival of this activity in the future. Strategic measures are therefore needed to strengthen and ensure the leadership position of the dairy sector in Galicia, and thus to be able to deal with the possible drop-down crises in market prices, which can be repeated in this liberalised European market community. Then there is a need for measures to allow a price to be set which compensates for production costs – as this initiative says in its exhibition – and the establishment of a follow-up commission – which is a demand for the most sensible – that monitors, controls and denounces, in its case, the degree of compliance or failure to comply with the agreement. A commission which must count on the direct participation of the various agents involved, in drawing up a diagnosis of the situation, in order to consensualise proposals and measures to be taken by the Government and the parties involved, which are production, distribution and industrialization. This, ladies and gentlemen, is what the glovers demand, and what this LNP brings today is full, and it will count on our vote, as it could not be otherwise. Thank you. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u98	Thank you, Mrs Iglesias. For the Parliamentary Group of the Left-wing Galician Alternative, Mr. Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u99	Well, yesterday, we had the appearance of the branch advisor, and after almost two years, if I don't miss the calculations, that the livestock are receiving prices under production costs, the lowest prices in the state and the lowest prices in Europe, it turns out that what we had was a kind of zootechnic, advanced nutrition, and the nutritional qualities of thought. It was disgusting to the counsellor's presence that would bring fresh air to this councillor's office. It was little would have been his presence. Not a single measure. Well, yes, a single: the measure of the People's Party to solve this crisis is that they advance the aid of the CAP, and that they are very good at managing the aid of the CAP. Well, that's the only reason why it's not justified to have the Conseilaria do Medio Rural, how much more you can aspire to good administrative management, but little more. And the star sentence was, "You'll never see me up on a tractor because I don't know how to drive." That was also another very appropriate phrase to solve the problems of the dairy sector. The dairy sector is the main agricultural sector in this country, and for the last four years we knew that we were going to have in April 2015 the end of the quota system. There was still no strategic plan, which was offered to elaborate after April 2015; there were no measures planned for a context like what is happening, more than predictable according to all studies. There was not a minimum of rigour in the implementation of policies that could make them react in time to an eventuality like what happened this summer. Even so, they had to mobilize the livestock, and they had to insist on their mobilization, and they had to mobilize the Galician society so that the Union could recognize that there was a serious crisis in the dairy sector. At first everything was disqualifications, but if it wasn't for the mobilizations, you would still not move your finger to do anything. Then, once the People's Party's fundamental goal was achieved, which was nothing other than the demobilisation of the gamekeepers, not the resolution of the problem, but the demobilisation of the owners, you applauded an agreement from the Ministry. That is, apart from management, a transfer belt from the Ministry, they don't even deserve the name of the German Government, who has full powers in this matter. You see what the minister says. Shame on you! Then they applauded an agreement full of good will, full of good will and nothing more. No new measures, no measures that were not already in the previous legislation or in the previous regulation, not one, not one! The struggle against loss of sales was already in 1996 at least in both the autonomous and state-run legislation, and they came to sell it as the great novelty. It's obvious, two months later the prices continue as they were, and the great news, according to the advisor, is that they didn't go down any more. I'd just miss it, of course! They'd just have to come down more. And above all, report by the National Competition Market Commission, which says that I look at forcing people to join these agreements, look at the loss sale, which is a perfectly good practice for free competition. Because, yes, the priority of the People's Party's governments is for the free market to function. But whenever the free market works for those below. Then it doesn't work in the electric sector, it doesn't work in the fuel sector, it doesn't work in the financial sector. But that's right, for those below who operate free market and free competition. And look at the indications of origin, which can distort the functioning of the market. And we ask ourselves, what are the planned actions of the Galician Union to solve this problem that is already causing the closure of many gainful farms that would be perfectly viable if you did your duties as the German Government? What are those measures? We want to know, we didn't know yesterday. What are those measures? You didn't even get in the seven years of government to impose a penalty for sale for losses in the dairy sector. While millions of euros of sanctions have been imposed in Portugal, you haven't even put up a euro until now. They started making some files in 2015, and they're not solved yet. I think Carrefour and Alcampo work the same way in Portugal, Murcia, Cantabria or Galicia. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u100	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr. García.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u101	Thank you, President. Very good morning. I wanted to reproach Mrs Iglesias, who is not here. Yesterday, he told the councillor that the government was leaving her alone, that she was here alone, and she didn't feed her, with which she didn't come today. Surely what Mrs. Iglesias wanted to do was to put it in value. [[Laughter]] Then we got shot in the ass. Mr. Sánchez, I wish it had been a good management. The CAP's aid is fully processed by banking institutions, i.e., none of them do anything at all. And the money is put in Brussels. The only thing he does is something that's been ahead of the bank three months ago, he's been ahead of them for a month. But let's get to the point. The July agreement, when it was signed in France, was simple: 0.34 cents in the month of December that would charge the money, 0.34 eh! The deal was that, from there to December, the French cattle were going to charge 0.34. Then it was signed in Madrid in September, and Mr. Feijóo said textually: "The deal is more complete than French, Galicia can't get away with it." At the same time, he accused the profiteers of making politics. After that, the French cattle in December are going to charge 0.34, and here's the only data we have from Inlac. The counselor said I had raised 1 cent of milk; that is, we're at 0.28. Those are the results. So, this one that was better than the French one, I'm sure it's better, for Mr Feijóo, but the results for the gainees are there. That's what happened. The decrees that had to develop that agreement were not even developed, which had to be carried out for the agreement to be fully effective. And, of course, the new advisor went there and told Mrs. Tejerina that she had to wait for the election to pass. Oh, of course... it's more, that the data that was going to be in December could no longer be in December, that had to be in January. Because the elections have to be passed. Here's the thing. The agreement, like the agreement here in Galicia, that Mr Feijóo and Mrs Counsellor – and then Mrs Quintana – have dedicated themselves not to solve the problem or to think for a second about the problem but to how the mobilizations were confused, the Madrid agreement, as I said, and I agree here with Mr Lence, who is sending the fuck, as he says!, he was actually going to take the picture, to save the elections of Madrid, and so that there was no problem before the elections in Madrid. And so there's a follow-up commission, man, it's obvious. We're not even going to be innovative, which is already up to Castela-León, which has 1,000 dairy farms, the set up, Castela-León. And in Galicia, it's true, I don't know if we're going to be leaders in vegetable health and on the subject of the quality of thought, but in the dairy sector we're not going, so you see, unfortunately, to be leaders. The bottom line is – which is what I was trying to transfer yesterday to the advisor – that it is not just that there is a follow-up commission, it is not just the agreement, because the agreement is not valid, but it is not wrong to work in that direction. What's the problem with the deal? What strategy do we want to have before the deal? What is our strategy as a country? And that's where we have the problem, because that's what I told you yesterday: don't think you're going to get to Madrid and everyone will listen to what you say. You referred, Mrs. Paz, to Lactalis. Why wouldn't Lactalis sign the deal in Spain? Because he signed it in France. Of course, if this is the problem! If, in the end, the problem, like almost everything in this life, is economic. And so if in France they have a country strategy to protect their producers, the same industries, which dominate the Spanish market, and the same distribution, which dominates the Spanish market, because they can't have it in Spain because they have it in France. Because in France, despite paying 0.34, they're going to put milk here despite the fact that our owners charge 0.28. Is that the market? It's not the market. I wish it was the market. Our farmers want the market, and they want to compete in the market. But what market is it that buys there at 0.34 and comes in here and they don't buy it here at 0.28? Where's the market? That some economist – not Mr. Losada, who is my economic reference to these issues – explains this market to me. And of course it's a problem, and of course it's difficult, but for that we have to have a strategy. And as long as we're in the strategy of not knowing anything, like the last four years, that we've been saying this, and that in Spain, in the Spanish state, and there's no need to go to Cuba or Mexico, in the Spanish state, that we're deficiting, the Greek milk goes at 85% in packed milk or liquid milk without packaging but to the Spanish state. So, if there's no strategy in the Spanish state, we have nothing to do, and we can't go on to see if Europe is coming to solve it, because Europe is not about to settle this issue. Because Europe is the main concern, and the French are the main stakeholders, in which we do not solve the problem. But not because it's a French, Spanish... country... No, for a purely economical problem. So if they want to pay them there at 0.34...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u102	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u103	...and meet the agreement there, they can't do it here. And what we need is a minister and counsellor who politically make decisions to be forced to do so here. And if we don't have that, turn it off and let's go. Anyway, I think it's positive and common sense, and you'd have to start over there. If Castile-Leon with 1,000 farms has a follow-up commission, I don't know our advisor what he did this month and a half, because I didn't ask him to do anything at all, as I told him yesterday, but so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u104	Thank you, Mr. García. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs. García Pacín.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u105	Good morning to all and to all. Thank you, Mr. President. Welcome to the audience. Mrs. Peace, the initiative you bring today knows it's not new, and Mrs. Churches talked about that we're used to defending or debating this subject. At the last meeting of the 7th Committee on Agriculture, this was the same text that you brought to the committee. I think I remember it was the 20th of autumn in the afternoon. And on this very initiative we had in the debate a clear stance on this – the Group – position that we are going to maintain. You said here today that you wouldn't qualify the agreement, and finally you couldn't resist it and you qualified it from wet paper, after making an assessment from its interpretation of the data; an assessment that, by the way, confirms that you really don't need a follow-up anymore, because if that's the data you're showing, you can transfer it to many of the agricultural organizations. But, ladies and gentlemen, the agreement signed in September, which has been in force since the fall, has been signed by most agricultural organisations. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] It was signed by cooperatives, it was signed by distribution, by industry. And some agents were missing producers' representatives. Not everyone, Your Honor, because you said yesterday that what interests the group I belong to and the government is to divide. Divide and you'll win. Ladies and gentlemen, if anything has shown the mobilizations of the past few months, it is that production remains very divided. And what for all measures, actions and demands has been demanded and demanded from this forum, from governments, from the regulations and regulations of all administrations, is that production must be united. And weak please we're doing them when we try to transfer the need... Mrs. Peace, is the Glaga Rural Federation an agricultural organization like the Labrego Union? Is OPL a collective representative of producers? All of them in the Milky Sector Defense Platform, just like many mayors and many collectives. Well, that representation of the producers, as the advisor announced last Friday, and yesterday repeated in their appearance, could bring forward and bring forward proposals in the next strategic milk plan, which was also one of the demands that the opposition has made in its claims, in its initiatives. Well, that's where you, from the opposition, can formulate and shape proposals. But proposals that have now been accompanied by the measures being taken, because today we look down on management to advance CAP payments, we look down on direct aid, which was the most important in recent crises in the dairy sector, and we look down on all the actions being implemented. And they're many, ladies and gentlemen, and I don't want to report them, but they're many, like support for producer organisations, which, by the way, is for the first time viable collective bargaining. And, Mr Sánchez, do not deny the competition rules. They're going to meet them, both by France, because Mr. García continues to say that in France the price has been fixed at 0.34 cents. No, no, no, no. And the political leaders went out in this matter in France and denied it. [[Murmurs.]] What they did, as in Galicia, as in Spain, was to sit down all the agents to give stability and transparency to the construction of prices on the chain, to strengthen production, which is still weak. And that's what we're all fighting about. Specific measures, ladies and gentlemen: support for producers' organisations with EUR 1 million, promotion of consumption with EUR 1.5 million, monitoring of compliance with the law with a specific programme of controls which are being given by AICA and by the autonomous communities, provision is made for credits to beef and milk farmers, the role of Inlac to be strengthened, the school milk consumption programmes are imposed, strategic plans for the dairy industry, boosting the cooperation of the sector. Ladies and gentlemen, in a community where there are almost two dozen cooperatives, we must promote their union.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u106	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u107	Help on improving the liquidity of the sector -- as I said, 25.5 million, and 20 million state-owned own funds. Transparency improvement in value transmission along the string. Ladies and gentlemen, it's multiple. Please add yourself to writing, to consensual a strategic plan. And, Mrs. Paz, don't do as you did in the previous period, because in the previous period, there was a strategic plan with several measures, with five measures, I think I remember, and with an budget of 836 million that you fired, you underestimated, you criticized. Please, let's be positive, let's get together. Governments, both the Autonomic Administration and the Ministry, are the guarantor and have the confidence of the producers, because they are next to them implementing effective measures. He joins the opposition and leaves, as you said, a continuing electoral campaign. This, really, is very serious. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u108	Thank you, Mrs. García Pacín. For the author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Paz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u109	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. García Pacín, I promise you that in the next plenary session I'll come here disguised as Pharrell that singing Happy so we'll all be happy and happy. Look, Mrs. Garcia Pacín, I'm not going to answer any of the claims you've made since the rostrum, as long as most of them are false or completely out of focus. I just want to tell you one thing. Look, to confuse a strategic plan that is still going to be drawn up is not very well known when the immediate short-term needs of the dairy sector are already an unforgivable mistake. So don't come here mixing things. The strategic plan, surely, if we don't solve the problem this month, next month and next month, perhaps for as many as thousands of farms is no longer necessary. And, therefore, if everything you said from that rostrum were true, which are doing so many things, what problem do you have to do with a follow-up commission? It's just that I'd like to know what problem the People's Party has with us being an autonomous community that has competence in its Statute. I'm absolutely hallucinated. Not only does the Galician Union exercise its powers but it blames all that's going on. Equally, cooperatives, which do not join together, producer organisations, industry representative organisations, all in such a way that they do not take responsibility and do not take responsibility. I'd like to know what problem the People's Party has with joining a table with the sector, with the representatives of the producers, with the representatives of the industry and with the representatives of the distribution, and to talk about how, when, where contracts are negotiated, how, how, how and when the owners are charged, how, how, how and where milk is sold, what price, where it is used as a claim product and where no margin is left to the industries, and how much is left for the distribution. What's the problem with that? I'm really excited that there can't be a forum in which to analyze these things, and a forum in which data says, from Galicia, unanimously, producers, distribution and industries, we ask for this to improve the chain, so that the owners have a price to repay their production. It's what it's all about, just that, something as revolutionary as people talk, super-revolutionary! But to finish, it is dramatic that the People's Party does not vote in favour of this kind of initiative, because it portrays a shameful government, a government which in addition to Mr. Núñez Feijóo, whom he so much likes to portray, has already portrayed perfectly invigorating...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u110	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u111	...a government that's like that car Mr. Feijóo pulled out, which goes without a driver, teledirected from and to Madrid. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u112	Thank you, Mrs. Paz. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da María Carmen Acuña do Campo and two other Members, on the adoption by the Government of Greece of the measures necessary for the inclusion, before the end of 2015, of the vaccine against type B meningitis in the compulsory vaccination schedule
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u113	This motion for a non-law amendment by the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block of Wales was tabled.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u114	For the defense of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Acuña has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u115	Thank you, President. Again, good morning, ladies. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group reiterates its request in this House that the meningitis B vaccine be incorporated into the compulsory vaccination schedule, and that it be done immediately before the end of this year 2015. And we insist again on this request, I don't know whether it's the fourth or fifth time we speak and propose this, but we insist because we think it's not appropriate for me to only be authorized to sell in pharmacy, because this measure, ladies and gentlemen, is showing that it leaves out of this vaccination children and children who have less economic resources. It's a face vaccine, which can't take everybody, each dose costs something more than 100 euros, and in addition one person who's under six months old will need four doses, that is, more than 400 euros; if he's between six months and two years old, three doses, and if he's over two years old, he's going to have two doses. So, ladies and gentlemen, the families that have several children, those who have to put on several doses, have no money to take on that vaccination. And I was told -- I got that sentence recorded -- a mother, a member of a platform who was asking for that vaccination, who would have to be forced to draw between her children, to see who was playing the vaccine, because the money they had in the house didn't -- I insist -- to completely vaccinate the three children they had. Or otherwise, ladies and gentlemen, what is causing this measure is that rich children and girls are now vaccinating, and poor children and children are getting vaccinated. But we also insist on this request, because the vast majority of pediatricians and pediatricians in our public health system are recommending this vaccination. And you know why they recommend it? Because meningitis is a serious disease that kills, or leaves tremendous sequelae, and because meningitis is a disease that has a high incidence in our autonomous community. We've had at least twelve cases in the last year, with five dead people, of whom three were children, and the last one was a 13-month-old baby. In addition, the Socialist Group insists on this subject because there is a great social alarm, as demonstrated by the fact that associations and platforms have been formed to ask for the vaccine, or even that ANPAs unite to manifest themselves in that sense as well. The alarm that I have to say is fueled by the mess and the confusion that Mr. Feijjoo's government, along with the Popular Government of Madrid, has been mounted with the vaccines, something desirable and, in addition, very dangerous, when we talk about public health. I don't know if you remember. First of all, that there was no need to vaccinate the smaller ones, because the total was a banal disease, and so much so that they didn't even remove the vaccine from the pharmacy to prevent fathers and mothers, following the recommendations – I insist on this concept – of pediatricians, they went to the pharmacy, bought the vaccine and put it on the child under twelve years of age. But now it turns out that yes, after they were able to increase, duplicate the cases of varicella, and even unfortunately there was some death on that point, because now they decide that you have to vaccinate, that you have to vaccinate the under twelve, exactly what we asked everyone, especially the experts, but also from our group, which was to include the varicella vaccine in the vaccination schedule in early childhood. But to increase the wound of vaccines, there are the waste, ladies and gentlemen, at the public vaccination points; there is no trivalent, no pentavalent, or otherwise said, lacks the vaccine of the tosferina that is put around six years, and also at a time when we attend a repoint of this disease. And that's a drop from the B meningitis vaccine, ladies and gentlemen, because as the government will understand, first defends that the B meningitis vaccine will only be reserved for hospital use and soon afterwards authorizes the sale in the pharmacies, but without worrying about securing the supply; so that people who are lucky enough to count the money to buy the vaccine, must continue to go to Portugal, because curiously in Portugal if there is vaccine, but not in Galicia. Either they're going to buy it to Portugal, or they're on endless waiting lists, which only increase the anxiety of families. Well, we socialists think that this whole mess would be solved by introducing the vaccine of meninxitation B into the compulsory vaccination schedule, and that is exactly what we ask for in our initiative; because besides, ladies and gentlemen, I remind you that there is already a compromise in this House, because that inclusion has been unanimously approved. So the only thing that makes today's request is the date, it's the deadline, because we put a deadline on that inclusion, and a short period, I insist, given the entire social alarm that has been created. We ask it to be in this space of time that we're left for the year. And we're not worth an apology that it can't be, because it has to be in the bosom of the Interterritorial Council where that inclusion is decided upon for the entire state. Look, not so, there are autonomous communities that don't follow exactly the same schedule as you've agreed and agreed on in the Interterritorial Council, which make some exceptions, and there's also a way to do it, which is launching a pilot project in Galicia in relation to the vaccination of meningitis B, precisely by the high incidence, exactly as was done in the case of pneumococcal vaccination. Besides, ladies and gentlemen, and with the intention of taking more advantage of this debate, I would like to ask the House something, of course, with the permission of the Presidency. I want to ask the other groups to allow me an amendment in voice, so we can include in our proposal another vaccine which is becoming very necessary. I hope that our request will be accepted by all groups, because if so, we would also vote for the vaccination of pregnant women in Wales with the vaccine of the Tosferina, as they are doing, ladies and gentlemen, in other autonomous communities, in order to protect babies under two months. It is true that the Feijóo Government has reduced the game for vaccines by 4 million euros in these years, but it is also true that this year has increased it by 500,000 euros. The drop of 4 million has always justified the government Feijóo in the debates, in the centralized purchase. Well, as the centralized purchase follows, we could use those 500,000 euros too to vaccinate the pregnancy of the tosferina, and the children and the children of the Greek girl B. Expecting the support of the groups, first of all for the request to accept the amendment in voice. If this were to cause any problem to some group, we would ask for a point vote, and what we would try to put the vote would be a first point by asking for the inclusion of the meningitis B vaccine in the vaccination schedule before the end of 2015, and a second point – after accepting the amendment in voice – asking also immediately to include the tosferine vaccine for pregnant women in Galicia. Perhaps someone is wondering how I spoke of the disaster before; well, following and thinking that it is true the recently manifested by the Minister of Health, who assured that this impoverishment of the tospherine vaccine was resolved. We hope to count on the support of the groups, for now and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u116	Thank you, Mrs. Acuña. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u117	Good morning. I have already transferred to you, Madam President, that you will have the support of the BNG, both for the initiative as you have put it, and for this proposal for an amendment in voice, because of course, it is clear that all the action of the People's Party on vaccines is such a disincentive that the situation of alarm and social distress created, both at the social level, but also among professionals, is only multiplying. Not so much for the effects or coverage of the vaccine itself, but for the erratic act that's going on, starting with the Ministry and following here by the Health Council. Moreover, if the economic issue is a problem, because the BNG has submitted to these budgets of the Board amendments in order to greatly increase the game for inclusion in the vaccination schedule of meninxitation B, and then the People's Party has no more to accept that amendment and it has not even to go looking for any kind of budgetary solution; it now has in the parliamentary process by accepting the amendments presented, at least, by the Nationalist Block of Wales to that effect. And I insist that our concern is consistent with the concern that many mothers and parents have at this time, who see themselves as part of the ministry, after the European Medicines Agency approves the vaccine for meningitis B – Bexsero – in the summer of last year, decide that this is only hospital application for risk groups, it decides that it cannot be sold in boutiques. As a consequence of that decision, what was produced was a genuine vaccination tourism, parents and mothers who had to travel to Portugal, or the internet market this vaccine, with which those alleged prevention measures that claimed the ministry did nothing more than have to have the effect totally contrary, because this was the lack of guarantees, double insecurity, both because of the risk of breaking the cold chain, and in transport, as well as by the administration of doses that are not soon established in the book, as because it is not quite clear what kind of healthcare staff it was that was administering these vaccines. After that, and again I saw social pressure – that is why we criticize this erratic position, and because it does not seem to have much to do with scientific assessments in this regard, but with greater or less social pressure – because the ministry decides that it can be bought in the boutiques and from October 1st you can buy in the boutiques. Well, from there on, what happens? On the one hand, for economic reasons, we find that the high price of these vaccines is actually making those families with economic capacity manage their children and children, and those who do not have that economic availability, because they are a little desperate. On the other hand, BNG also has to recriminalize that this is not the way to proceed, because if the efficacy and safety of the meningitis B vaccine is in contrast, there are scientific reports that so assess it and in addition it is authorized by the European Medicines Agency, it is authorized by the State Medicines and Sanitary Products Agency, then if it is effective and it is opposed to its effectiveness, what it has to be included in the vaccination schedule; it cannot leave the criteria of the parents and mothers whether the children are vaccinated or not vaccinated. So it seems to us a real disincentive as if you're managing the theme of vaccines. That is why the BNG, I insist, will support this initiative, both that it is in the text of the initiative as the request made by the honourable Member to amend in voice, and we also present a amendment which, for nothing, distorts what the initiative calls for, that the priority is to include it in the vaccine calendar and that it is included as much before, but in the meantime that is not so, what we ask is that it is guaranteed, as soon as possible, normalization in the distribution of the meningococcal B vaccine in the Welsh shops, because the situation created with this dismantling, with these endless lists of expectations that there are parents and mothers who have hundreds before they can acquire the vaccine, is creating a situation of anguish, confusion, despair, and, in many cases, to what must be added the complaint of some bothics that there was an irregular treatment by the distributor in which was the distribution to the other boutiques; that, of course, it was not in the case of the necessary With which – I insist – we believe that there must be much more seriousness in how this issue is being addressed, because we cannot have so many thousands of people in this situation of insecurity, distress and confusion; with which we today vote in favour of this initiative, because it is not something else, too, that...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u118	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u119	...–end– an exercise of consequence, because this Parliament has already voted in favour of this initiative, and what is surprising is that after voting in favour of all the groups of the House, we find ourselves to be saying that the leaders of health and the president of the board themselves are going to think about it, that they have to consider it, that at best they do not, when there is an agreement in this Parliament that should be binding on the Government. With which – I insist – in the vote along with the rapporteur, it is only to reiterate what is already agreed in this Parliament.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u120	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u121	According to the Advisory Committee on Vaccines, meningococcal is a bacterium that causes infections, uncommon but very serious, such as meningoccus or Sepsis, which can leave important sequelae, and cause death in about 1 out of 10 cases. 30% of infected people survive, but there are severe sequelae, such as deafness, amputations, cognitive deficits and others. According to WHO, meningococcal diseases are associated with a high mortality rate, between 5% and 15%, even when satisfactory medical services are available. Chemoprophylaxis is, in general, WHO says, insufficient to fight disease. And this germ, in addition, although it can act and infect people at any age, the most frequent cases are danced in small children and adolescents; therefore, the policy that follows the People's Party in relation to this vaccine is precisely to protect children, not adults. It's a direct attack on children and children, it's putting the health of minors at risk, simply by saving up a few euros. In the Spanish state, currently, the main cause of meningococcal disease is group B. What was also in the Spanish state causing many diseases – the meningocococcal C – is controlled thanks to normalization of vaccination. Meningococcal B infection can be treated with antibiotics, but, as I said, they're not very effective, so the best prevention is vaccination. The Spanish pediatric association recommends vaccination from two months of age. This vaccine is not funded by the social security system, except for immunodepressed people, and in some other cases, but is allowed to sell it in pharmacies, whenever the person who goes for it pays 100% of the price of the vaccine. I mean, not that Social Security doesn't take this vaccine as a vaccine funded by Social Security, but that recognizing its effectiveness and its need allows and authorizes its sale, but it won't cover it. I mean, he's covering just about the protection of children and children of parents and mothers who can afford the vaccine. It's a compulsory declaration illness, precisely because of its gravity and the ease it has of infection, and because of the consequences it leaves, that ultimately comes far more expensive for the social security system to have dependent people, apart from the sadness that government policies are supposed to cause deaths of children and children, or that children and children are left with sequels that will turn them into dependent people for the rest of their lives, and therefore they will also come out, even economically more expensive for the state itself. So I will support this initiative, and I will also support the amendment in voice if it is accepted, but I think that the Greek Government should be more serious, I should really think not only of making propaganda, but of taking effective measures that do not have, in addition, a high economic cost, but of having a high cost in human lives and the lives of children. In the 1960s, 70 and early 1980s Galicia suffered one of the most virulent outbreaks of meningitis throughout Europe, and many of the children of Greece died. We don't want to go through that situation again, and much less in our country, where the incidence in Galicia of meningitis B infection is much higher than in the rest of the state. So it's essential that this vaccine be introduced, but the worst thing is that this popular party's refusal to accept the inclusion of the vaccine is not because they are inept, it's not because they don't know the consequences, it's not because they're useless, it's because it's the policy they want to make, it's a machiavellian plan of the People's Party, it's their policy: first legislation to impoverish the majority of society, then it increases indirect taxes, then it introduces the policing into health, then it removes the drugs from the list of medicines funded by Social Security, and now it removes the vaccines from children and children from Social Security. A true attack on the social majority, a true attack on the most vulnerable part of society...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u122	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u123	...a real attack on the poorest people. Don't be mistaken, the sad thing is that they don't hurt, the sad thing is what they want to do, the sad thing is they just want to protect high school, that's their problem, that's what they want to do. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u124	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. Parliamentary Group of the Alternative Glaga de Left, Mrs Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u125	Thank you, President. That the health policy of the People's Party has been disorganized and erratic is seen in facts just like what we are dealing with today, related to the vaccine of meninxitation B. We've debated it many times, we've explained our position here. I recall again that in June we discussed the situation of the Bexsero vaccine, here in the Chamber, and we moved the positioning of the groups, and since then, referring to the existing studies, she said that both the European Medicines Agency and the Spanish Agency indicated that the vaccine produced immunization, effective titration against mening B, and that the reservation was, both here and in the report of the European Union, in the difficulty of knowing the benefits of the population in the absence of clinical trials. I mean, the vaccine was safe, but no clinical trials had been given and the post- marketing data were expected. She expressed the need to refuse scientific evidence, and finally the whole House voted in favour of the inclusion of the vaccine in the calendar in relation precisely to the existence of that necessary scientific evidence. Well, the point is, the situation has changed substantially since June. In July the European Agency provided new positive data for the vaccine, quality and safety data that motivated – it seems – the Spanish Medicine Agency changed its use, from being a hospital use to being used by non-restrictive medical prescription. This decision was taken in September, and the decision therefore led the Ministry to authorize the public marketing of the vaccine. And here's where incongruity comes, if the vaccine is safe, if the vaccine considers the Government that can put healthy children and healthy children, which is also legal, which allows their prescription, why is it only for those who can pay in the pharmacy? The findings published in October even indicate the vaccine pattern to be adopted, indicating that the most appropriate is that of two, four and six months, because it produces more immunity than that of two, three and six months. Therefore, this honourable Member cannot understand is the policy of the People's Party, because it first points to scientific evidence – very well, correct – but later authorizes the vaccine, but only for those who can pay in the pharmacy. Isn't the target still favouring the business of the company? Why allow only those and those who can pay each dose at the price of 100 euros to be vaccinated, and therefore around 300 euros per child or child? Shouldn't they guarantee it for all the children, regardless of their income, and thus negotiate the price with their own pharmaceuticals to make it cheaper to vaccinate? What are we left with? Is the vaccine safe or not safe? And if it is, why is it only for who can pay and go to private? What does it serve epidemiologically and sociologically a vaccine, to prevent a disease, or to prevent the possibility of death, if that vaccine cannot be guaranteed for the most vulnerable sectors, if the most vulnerable population can't access that vaccine? What's it for? We are going to vote in favour of this initiative, because, ladies and gentlemen, your credibility in health matters is the fact that, in our view, it has obviously been in an interview for decades, but what we do not understand is that after the first position, now that you consider the vaccine to be safe, only be safe for some people and for others not, because what they are still maintaining is ultimately an economic criterion in all the health measures that you are taking, and therefore we urge them, of course, to be consistent, for once, with some of their measures.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u126	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr. Núñez Centeno.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u127	Thank you, President. First of all, to announce that we will not accept the amendment in voice, because in this way we did not have time to study it and comment on it in the Parliamentary Group; in addition, you know that the first day of December is a technical commission to study it, so surely this rush to put this amendment on you. [[Murmurs.]] We will discuss this subject, if you like, in any other committee. You introduce it and we discuss it as you like. I would like, firstly, to recall the text which this Parliament adopted at the plenary session in April, unanimously at the first point, and with seven abstentions in the second and third. The text is: "The Parliament urges the Galician Board to take the appropriate measures to include in the mandatory vaccination schedule the vaccine against type B meningitis, and in this sense urges the Ministry of Health to decide, in accordance with the new scientific evidence available, the inclusion of medicine against meningitis B in the calendar. Secondly, as long as this doesn't happen, it's enabled the Greek pharmacies to dispense this vaccine, as it happens, practically in the pharmacies across Europe. Third, which informs the entire population of these measures, in order to cut off the sad journey to Portugal from families." The consensus is the scientific evidence – we speak of it in the Commission – not today in the case of meningitis B vaccine, Bexsero, which is now commercializing multinational GSK. You always quote the claims of pediatric societies, but never refer to the opinion of epidemiologists and public health specialists, who do not agree in most cases with those of pediatricians' representatives, but with other pediatricians individually. It is true that Galicia has a prevalence rate in the last year over the national average, but also that Asturias, Navarre and the Balearic Community have higher rates than Welsh. But in these communities there is neither this social alarm nor platforms, nor is there a shortage of pharmacies because there is no such intense vaccine demand. In total number of cases, we are also the fourth community, the first is Andalusia, the second is Catalonia, the third is Madrid, and the fourth is Galicia. The Spanish Medicines and Sanitary Products Agency has already authorized the exceptional marketing of 60,000 additional doses of the meningitis B vaccine. It is also public the inability of the laboratory itself to market new doses – I wanted to know how it can be included in the vaccination schedule if there are no doses – which takes a period of nine months for its production. Of course, this problem is not the fault of any government, nor of the State, nor of any Autonomous Community, nor of Mr. Rajoy, nor of Mr. Feijóo, nor of Mr. Ximo Puig, nor of Mrs. Susana Díaz. In the studies that exist today, the vaccine is effective against 65% or 75% of the different strains. And in other countries, how is the situation? It is authorised in North America, Latin America, Europe and Australia. Recommended vaccination schedule in Australia, Canada, Great Britain and six other European countries: Austria, Czech Republic, Italy, Hungary, Ireland and Poland. Also in some German region. It's not on schedule or in France, which has similar rates to Spanish, nor in Nordic countries. And it is funded with single and exclusive public money in Britain and the Land of Saxony, and in some Italian province. Surprisingly, in the United States, both this Bexsero vaccine and the other vaccine that exists on the market are banned in under ten years of age, and until recently it was banned in under fourteen years of age. This shows the lack of common criteria in the administration of vaccine in different countries. In the People's Parliamentary Group we believe that we must act prudently, as I have already said in the Commission, Mrs Acuña, this is obviously a technical matter. The Members of this group understand the concern of the parents and mothers of the children of Greece; they are afraid of their health, we have held a meeting with the representatives of the platform. It was the Government of the People's Party of Galicia that, after this agreement of the Greek Parliament, urged and worked with the Government of Spain to allow sale in pharmacies, and so it is done today. Unfortunately not with all the doses we'd like to have. But I would like to recall again that the agreement referred to new scientific evidence available for inclusion in the vaccination calendar. We hope and trust that the new trials will ensure, within a short time, the safety and effectiveness of the vaccine, and do not doubt, ladies and gentlemen, that since the People's Parliamentary Group we will be the first to demand from the Government its inclusion in the vaccination calendar And we do not support your proposal, Mrs Acuña, for three fundamental reasons: because there is a common schedule of vaccination, which we think must be respected; because there is a systematic one to modify that calendar; and by agreement by the Ponencia of programmes and vaccination logs of permanent follow-up of the novelties around that vaccine, to review the existing report. And I wanted to finish, with the permission of the president, by recommending him the reading of an article published in the magazine Nuevatrina.es, of the public group, and which wrote Dr. Pablo Vaamonde, who was general director of Health Care with the Bipartisan Government and which I believe is neither suspicious nor the means of being attached to the People's Party. In extract it says: "There is an obvious citizen concern amplified by the media and poorly offset by the health authorities. Is there any reason for such a collective alarm? In this case there is a strange confluence of collective fear with the sensationalism of the means and interests of the pharmaceutical industry, which from the shadows feeds the social alarm and promotes the demand for a solution – the vaccine – which, so far known, is not the absolute panacea of this problem, as they want to make you see. An independent and rigorous body, such as SESPAS, prepared a report stating that seroconversion tests did not produce sufficient results. It would be the first vaccine to be marketed without clinical efficacy data, with uncertainty that it can actually disrupt the circulation of bacteria and maintain group immunity." And it continues and talks about scientific societies. I recommend that opposition groups read this article. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u128	Author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Acuña.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u129	Thank you, President. I want to start this replica by thanking the effort made by the platforms and associations that are fighting for the vaccine, also by the ANPA, by those fathers and by those mothers, for that effort that they are making, especially the mothers, to not subject children to one... yes, because they are the ones fighting, madam!, they are the ones they are fighting. [[Murmurs.]] To appreciate the support of the groups for accepting the amendment in voice.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u130	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u131	I don't understand the attitude of the People's Parliamentary Group, I don't know whether it's against the amendment in voice because there's going to be a meeting I don't know where or I don't know what, or whether it's against the content of the request for that amendment in voice. I understand that because of parliamentary cordiality they will accept the amendment in voice, although they then vote against the content of the proposal. I want to thank, of course, the amendment to the Galego Nationalist Block, because you actually have to ensure supply in the pharmacies, because we're talking about vaccinating children, but adult people are also at risk and could be vaccinated in the pharmacy. As for the scientific arguments given by the People's Party deputy, I suppose because he has no political arguments. Look, we are not experts, we are Members and Members, so the logical thing is to pay attention to what the Spanish Association of Pediatrics says – don't get nervous – that ensures, categorically, that the vaccine of meningitis B presents a profile of vaccine to be included in all Spanish calendars, and that it should also be freely available in the pharmacy. [[Murmurs.]] I respect Mr. Baamonde very much, I respect him very much, because I also regard him as a friend, and it is a pity that you do not follow him so closely at all that this gentleman tells us, but in this case I am going to pay more attention to the Spanish Association of Pediatrics. I would also like to know, Mr. honourable Member, how can you ensure, as Mr. Feijóo said, that there will be vaccines for all people at risk – Mr. Feijóo assured me – when people at risk are absolutely all and all, and yet there is not enough vaccine to be included in the vaccination schedule. Look, think about it, vote in favour, because we're asking for an avoidable risk, we're at an avoidable risk, protecting our children from a very serious and highly incidence disease, and I insist on the idea, protecting babies under two months of age, ladies and gentlemen, from the tosferina, because they're dying, there's a relapse of this disease and they're dying, or do I have to wait for them to wake up when I don't know what meeting is going on? We cannot vote in favour of what the Socialist Parliamentary Group proposes because we have to wait until we know what meeting...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u132	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u133	...we hope no baby of tosferin dies at that time.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u134	Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, Thank you. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of Da Patricia Vilán Lorenzo and three other Members, on the adoption of measures by the Galician Union for the implementation, before the end of 2015, of the new judicial office in the judges of the seven major cities of Greece, as well as in all judicial party head organs
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u135	This motion for a non-law has been tabled with an amendment by the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u136	For the defense of the non-law proposition, Mrs Vilan has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u137	Thank you, President. Good morning to everyone. I'm going to start my exhibition with two questions that people who work in justice are very often asked: do those who govern really want justice to continue to be that of the 19th century or are you interested in being prepared for the 21st century? I'm sure there is no need to explain in this House that it is a public service vital to the vertebration of our social and democratic rule of law. Surely there is no need to explain that we need a modern administration of justice, essential for us to strengthen that rule of law and improve the quality of our democracy, and one of the ways to improve that quality is the new judicial office and the incorporation of new technologies. And I'm sure it's not necessary for you to explain that for the times that run, today more than ever, reform measures in justice are needed. A reform is essential that adapts to new times and new needs a structure that is so obsolete that it is about two hundred years old. The Socialists have it clear, but we know that the governments of the People's Party, both in Madrid and here, do not have it as clear, and the fact is that the reform of justice is paralysed in favor of other measures taken by the Government of the People's Party in Madrid to make it more difficult, bureaucratic and inaccessible to citizens. We just need to remember those fees to access the judges who decided Gallardón and Rajoy to unity, and that the Government of the People's Party of Galicia, decided to follow the joints. One of these legal bottlenecks is that of the judicial office, but what is the judicial office? They've just spoken to the health friends, because the judicial office is only medical treatment to improve the ills and diseases that our justice has, to get citizens to feel they're doing a case with capitals, which is the one that's doing well and in time. Well for the effective right to effective judicial custody, which is a fundamental right, and in time for the realization of the fundamental right to a process without undue delay, and that's the judicial office. It was already in that reform that in 2003 proposed a socialist government, with a terrible president, whose name was José Luis Rodríguez Zapatero, about ten years ago. One of the aims of that reform was to adapt the organization of justice to the autonomous state, because there are autonomous communities, also Galicia, which have competences, which have powers in the design and organization of the judicial office, and you are autonomous government, you, those who are not, are autonomous government, have competences, have powers in the administration of justice, and what we ask ourselves is, what have you done in these years in the design and organization of the judicial office? And the answer can be nothing. What would the judicial office mean if it existed? For basically two things that are essential for having that 21st century justice that we consider essential: the centralization of common services, which is called, and technological modernization. Centralization of common services is nothing more than having in one place all those services that are responsible for registering what enters into the courts, sharing it, reporting it, and the embargoes as well. But the curious thing is that the Government of Galicia, as they tell us, has issued a decree to implement the common services in Galicia, even for the execution of the measures taken in civil matters, for example; so the amendment of the People's Party to this non-law proposal goes on to that draft decree. And according to information from the Supreme Court of Justice Court of Galicia in 2014, this draft was already in consultation at the end of 2014, and according to this memory it was foreseeable that it would be approved by 2015. There's about a month left for this year, this year 2015, and we don't know how that decree is. In the words of the Director General of Justice, in this House, in Commission 1st, there is no decree on these common services, and perhaps he assumed in Commission 1st that he would be in the first quarter of 2016. The reality is that the common services in Justice in Galicia are science fiction, architectural reforms are needed because there is no space, because there is no money, and there is also a relationship of decent jobs, but there is no money. The judicial office would need common services to be modern, but there can be no common services if there is no money, no budget, no interest in them. The second thing that could mean the judicial office, if it existed, is technological modernization, which is essential. We need computerized justice where those who are commonly called legal operators, for example lawyers and prosecutors, direct their writings through electronic format to the trial, and where the courts are communicating through the computer network. It seems we're talking about something theoretical, but every day we use the phone to do a lot of computer activities. Well, in fact, since the end of 2013 there have been legal operators working by sending letters to judicial bodies by e-mail -- basically prosecutors -- through a system called Lexnet justice. But the reality is that in Galicia, it's not generalized the presentation through the Internet of writings on all subjects, which is called judicial orders, only in civil matters. In Galicia there is no real training for officials, and I'm going to set an example that I also put in Commission 1a, the maximum capacity that this Lexnet system has is 10 megas, and by the time the prices are very bulky, there are prosecutors who do it is to compress the documentation in a zip document. The result is that officials – who did not receive training – were unable to open this document. In Galicia and the rest of Spain, the Prosecutor's office doesn't do anything for Lexnet. In Galicia, judges can't manage the Minerva system, which is the system used by law enforcement officials. In Spain, judges don't have electronic signatures, how will electronic documents be signed if they don't have electronic signatures? That's why I was asked the two questions that have moved me from the world of justice, so that I can repeat them here, whether it's in the interest of maintaining a justice of the 19th century or preparing it to live in the 21st century, and that's why we make this request to this House, urging the Board to finally adopt urgent measures so that this judicial office is implemented in the courts of the seven major cities in Galicia and in all the organs that are judicial party heads before the end of this year 2015. Then I'll talk about the amendment tabled by the People's Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u138	Thank you, Mrs. Vilan. Amending Group. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u139	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Well, I, Mrs Vilán, have to congratulate you because at least with you as a voicer of justice the Socialist Party has regained its voice in this matter, and I think it's a very important matter, you said it here; it's a fundamental public service, and the truth is that I am grateful that you present these initiatives. It is certainly an initiative that was registered on September 29, and since September 29 in this House we have talked several times about this issue that you bring to plenary today, without going further into the debate of the state of Autonomy on October 15. You in the motions for resolutions tabled number 33, which says exactly the same within the proposal, which was a little bit wider, and which also included the questions of legal fees, because it included exactly the text you are presenting today as a motion for a resolution. And at that time we also proposed a compromise proposal to that text, that the compromise proposal that we presented to it was the same amendment that we tabled today, and I think it is consistent that we continue to maintain that issue. And you know that, because without going any further last week, on Friday 13th, the Director General of Justice came to answer a question about this subject, which you yourself have asked, and the Director General of Justice has already explained why the delay in drafting that draft, which you now wonder why there is this delay. I believe that the Director General of Justice has made it clear, above all, because in addition to that draft, in that decree, it is necessary to include the latest legislative reforms in this matter since the Organic Law of the Judiciary of 2003, going through the process reforms of the year 2009, and now, very recently, that if the decree is not likely to be made, because you know that it is necessary to include the issues that introduce new criminal prosecution law. So it's normal to be late. Do you intend to present a decree now and when the law of criminal prosecution enters into force, the Government must do another? Is that your proposal? I think no, I think it's best to wait a month or two, adapt the regulations to which it will come into force and have a decree at the beginning of 2016, which is what we propose in our amendment, which is to begin its implementation in 2016. I think the amendment is an assumed amendment, if what you really want with this initiative to achieve is a consensus on justice, which I think is important, because there are other issues where we can not agree, which may have ideological burden, which may have insurmountable differences, but I think we all agree that, indeed, we have to be putting the means to have a justice of the 21st century. Well, what you're saying here is that the officials of justice aren't able to open a zip document because they don't have training... is that I think it's an insult to the intelligence of the officials of justice, Mrs. Vilán, and you know that's not true; you know that that's not true, because even my ten-year-old son, who never went to computer school, knows how to open a zip document, Mrs. Vilán. I don't know what kind of training you might need a person to open a zip document, I think you've passed out in demagogy. And we all agree that, in fact, we have to change some things to adapt to justice, and you said you haven't done anything to Galicia since 2009. No, you know it's not true, last week, as I told you, here came the Director General of Justice and explained to them the things that had been done; things that, by the way, have started since 2009 in a very complex economic context, where there was a gross drop of income in the public archives, and despite that, an important plan of judicial infrastructure has been made: a lot of judges have been modernized, a very important investment in the modernization of justice with Lexnet, with Plan Senda, you know it, the first Plan 2009-2014, and now with the 2020 Plan. So to say that nothing has been done in the matter of justice since 2009 is not fair, Mrs. Vilán, and you know it, you know it! Maybe you could have done more, sure, but I'm telling you one thing, too, resources aren't the same since 2009 as, for example, those you had between 2006 and 2009. And if we compare what has been done in times of kindness and what has been done in times of crisis, for the truth is that the effort that the Galician Union has made in the field of investment in justice is very important.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u140	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u141	I think on this subject we should reach a consensus, because I think there is no problem, you ask it to be done in 2015, a month to end the year 2015, and we ask it to start in 2016. I believe it is an absolutely meaningless matter – one month – unless you want to reach a consensus on this very important issue. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u142	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u143	I begin by announcing support for this initiative, because the draft decree regulating the structure and organization of the judicial office in Galicia is necessary, since it sets its structure and its organization. The use of new technologies is an indispensable element for the modernization of the Administration of Justice, so the project picks up the momentum of the measures needed to facilitate its widespread use. It's an emergency not only to provide the Administration of Justice with new technologies, but also to necessarily address the digitization of archives. The lack of space in the archives of the Greek courts causes many boxes to be piled up in towers, or thrown down the ground, with no security whatsoever, no criteria. And even though Junta has started the removal of files, the definitive solution is to create a service of the digitized archive with sufficient and qualified staff. Within the framework of the language promotion and normalization policy, the decree encourages the process of incorporating the Greek language into the field of judicial offices. An urgent measure for linguistic normalization is the setting up of the value of language within justice, and today we can say that Greek suffers from negative discrimination in the judicial field, as it is exceptional that a sentence is given in English, when it comes to translating from Greek to Spanish the declarations and interventions made in Greek during the trials. Even so, the draft decree proposes to promote and encourage specialized training in the area of violence against women, which, it seems, is now in the interest of the People's Party. Another urgent action that recognizes Galicia's own High Court of Justice is that it has agreed to assess the situations of Vigo's violent, female and family judges following requests for reinforcements from the city. The Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia has found that there is no support judges in the province, and has agreed to assess the situation of the Crown as well. The evaluation responds to the complaint made by the judge of gender violence and the prosecutor's office about the lack of means, which is corroborated, in addition, by the police unions, the psychosocial services and the workers themselves and the workers of justice. Staff officials report that this precarious means is leading to the derivation of causes in violent cases against women to other judges. As of December, if the Union does not respond to its demands, they will begin to mobilize, claiming a reinforcement for the Family Court, which accumulates delays of up to eight months, for example, in claims such as divorce. They also demand the necessary means for the Gender Violence Court to act with the urgency that these cases require. Women, minors and minors are the major victims of the collapse of the trial who deal with divorces and custody of children and children, as well as assaults on victims of gender-based violence. The lack of means in family trials causes many cases to arise in the Gender Violence Court itself, which has already entered into service in a precarious situation. The delay in the processing of divorce causes tension in marriage, and ultimately episodes of domestic violence explode. The workers claim that at least six recent cases that started in the Family Court ended up in the Gender Violence. It is clear that neither Lugo nor Ourense nor Pontevedra nor Ferrol nor Santiago have these judgments. It is urgent to act to improve the situation of the Greek judges in all rooms: criminal, social, gender-based violence, family. The lives of thousands of people depend on their good or malfunction. As for social judges, their collapse is preventing them from cutting down on corporate power. They should be agile processes, because matters are very important, because issues such as dismissals are dealt with, so the judicial resolution determines the future of a family. The social judges themselves recognize that many times, when they say the sentences, the companies no longer exist, and the workers have to go to the Fire, which has no means and accumulates also delays. So it is urgent to modernize justice, it is urgent that this decree be passed, because justice that doesn't work ceases to be just, it is no longer fair, and in this country today justice is not fair. They'll fix it as soon as possible. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u144	Thank you very much, Mrs. Martínez. For the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego has the floor to Mrs. Paz Franco.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u145	Thank you, Madam President. I feel at odds with all the people who have spoken so far. In order for justice to be fair in this country, it is not enough for us to implement the new judicial office, nor for us to be computerized and endowed with many technological means of justice. The first thing that would have to happen in the Spanish state for justice to be fair is that the transition, though very precarious, comes once again to the Administration of Justice, and that it ceases to be an instrument to the service of power. But going to talk about the new judicial office, I also wanted to say something else. We are going to vote in favour of the initiative, accept it or not accept the amendment. But as far as I know, implementing the new judicial office won't be possible either in 2015 or throughout 2016, and I would dare say that not in 2017 either. Because, look, I'm an employee of the Administration of Justice. The officials and officials of the Administration of Justice operate on organic templates, that is, each body has a staff. So in order to be able to implement the new judicial office, the first thing that would have to be done, or in parallel with the development of the decree regulating common services, both the general common process service and the common procedural service of processing or execution, would be to draw up the relationship of jobs. And I assure you, this is not done in fifteen days, nor in fifteen months, surely, nor in fifteen months, surely, because there are many issues at stake there. But the first one, the first one that should define the People's Party is exactly what you want to do, because we can't say that the People's Party had done anything about the implementation of the Judicial Office and the application of the 2013 Organic Law in Galicia; they did, what happens is they did contradictory things. Since 2014 four draft decrees have been introduced with this one now. The first, in June 2014, which regulated only general processing services; the second, in September 2014, which also regulated only general processing services. Interestingly, something happened between September 2014 and January 2015, which was when, in January 2015, for the first time, a draft of the decree appeared, in which, in addition to general processing services, we were also talking about the implementation of process management and enforcement services. But it is very curious that there could be change, I don't know what cosmic change happened, because in the exposition of motives of the Decree of 2014 it said that this was a process of great complexity – indeed, huge complexity – and that it also had a lot to do with the technological situation of the judges – indeed –. And he also said in the explanatory statement that the experiences of other territories recommend that this process be carried out, first, by the general common services, addressing the other two once this first phase has passed. For me - I tell you the truth - this had some logic, knowing how I know the Administration of Justice, as a worker in the Administration of Justice. This, in September 2014. But it's just that three, four months later, they give a copper money order to tell us that it's not going to be done that way anymore, but it's going to be implanted all at once, i.e. -- my conclusion -- that there's nothing going to be done. Because, besides, with the 40,000 euros in the budgets for 2016, nothing. Because I'm going to tell you the problems that this draft decree has. The one from the RPT – I told you already – This will lead to the setting up of common services only going to be done in the big towns, let's not fool ourselves, in the seven cities and little more, which will go there through the Gallardón reform of centralization of Justice. It's also rather frightening to add the regulation of the two common services, especially the regulation of procedure management, first of all, to the ineffective experiences that have already existed, by the terrible computer intercommunication that exists between the judges, which is still practically a utopia. Because Lexnet – as Mrs. rapporteur said – has tremendous flow gaps that make it practically inoperative. Because the digital file in this country is still a chemera – the other one, a utopia; this, a chemera –...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u146	Finish it, Mrs. Paz, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u147	...there's not even a clue when it's going to be. And because the databases in the judicial parties, in addition, are unserviceable, are duplicated and, instead of improving, they get worse and worse. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we are going to vote in favour of the initiative, but we know that, as we are practically in December, it is a letter to the Magi. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u148	Thank you very much. Parliamentary Group of the Left Galician Alternative. You have the word Mrs. Yolanda Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u149	Good afternoon, everyone. I reproduce Mrs. Peace's intervention and, moreover, I am glad of it, because I would certainly begin my intervention by pointing out that I do not agree with many of the things that were said here, and I will explain why. Well, because it looks like this now is a question that we've actually finished this year too and it turns out that we're going to do everything right or even not remember that the People's Party has been ruling this country for seven years, and we're not going to remember that in this legislation, from the year 2012 until now, the budgetary provision that was for the implementation of the Judicial Office was exactly, Mrs. Paz, 40,650 euros every year, exactly. So I can't make it clear that there's no will on the part of the People's Party for the implementation, the implementation of the Judicial Office in our country. But in addition – if I may – of course, this is a matter of political will. That is, since 2001, where the two major political parties in this State have reached an agreement on Justice and signed a pact on it, one of the relevant issues that they put at the centre of action was precisely the need to regulate or change the Judicial Office, knowing that we were in front of a judicial office, an administration of justice – as the rules themselves and texts themselves – absolutely archaic. But from there, from that pact to the White Book of Justice, to all the rules and documents that we want to work, they tell us loud and clear that either we do this or there will be no administration of justice, I don't say 4.0 anymore, I say of real time. But to speak of the real time, of course, was spoken by Mrs Prado of the Plan Senda. It is, of course, that we take stock of Plan Senda, of the enormous amount of economic resources that have been applied since Amtega, and other monsters created, who had as their primary objective the conformation of the electronic file – I know that Mrs. Vilan knows – and has finished the balance of this year 2014 and now 2015 in the Plan Senda with nothing in fact in the electronic file. So no scan of the Administration of Justice. That said, as long as there is no electronic file in the Administration of Justice, there will not be an implementation of the new judicial office that serves, understanding – so that we can understand citizenship – that the implementation of the new judicial office is precisely what it is intended to allow judges and judges, magistrates and magistrates, to devote themselves to what – we say – the constitutional text says they have to do, that is, essentially a central element: to dictate resolutions and, of course, execute the trial; and not only that, but also to reserve those functions that have to do with the part of the admission of evidence and everything that has to do with the tests and fundamental rights of citizens. The rest of the instrumental issues are what we have to do in these two support offices that are set up in the new judicial office. But – I insist – they have been ruling for seven years and not only have they done nothing, but we insist – I believe also that for the work done in Commission 1a, because now the new Track Plan of the upcoming exercise is aimed at centrality of the electronic file. I won't ask for much more, but with which we read the reports of the General Council of the Judiciary speak clearly. First, as long as we haven't solved the language issue, and it speaks loud and clear to the General Council of the Judiciary regarding the need to change what is happening, and I repeat it again, although it has already been said: in our country a judge, a judge, a magistrate or a magistrate who wants to dictate his resolutions in Greek must translate them; first obstacle, is the real world, things are so. The General Council says: first, let's take into account that there are three own languages in this state for the judicial record. Secondly, let's remember that we no longer want to scan the Administration of Justice, that we have incompatible systems; that's that we have Lexnet, that we have Minerva, that we have Fortuny, that we have Simelga; that's that we have and we are not capable of; that's that we have the Lugo Audience that is unable to communicate digitally with the judges of Lugo. This is the reality of this country. And, of course, there was a three-and-a-half-year bipartisan parenthesis, but the rest of the People's Party is ruling this country all their lives, please! I mean, really, Mrs Vilán – and I'm done – we're going to vote in favour of it. We know that in the resolution part of your initiative you ask if you're dealing with the Judicial Office this year, it's not possible; that is, there we know that, even if I wanted the People's Party, that's not possible. We are going to vote – I insist – favourably, but it will not be real.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u150	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u151	And – finished – today a modification of the RPT is posted to the alleged judicial office for this pilot project of the Prosecutor's Office. Well, so we go on, add up and go on, but – I insist – the key is in the budgets; and when we have in the budgets 40,650 euros for the same...,
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u152	Thank you very much, Mrs. Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u153	...it's like saying nothing at all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u154	Group author of the non-law proposal. You have the floor to Mrs. Vilan.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u155	Thank you, President. Well, the first thing I want to do is thank the groups that have just stated that they're going to vote in favour. [[Murmurs.]] And the fact is that the fundamental reforms in the field of state justice were made by the Socialist Party, we are not going to speak of that agreement in the field of justice which has been reached by the Socialist Party, of the essential reforms in this field, and that this House is not the first time an initiative by the Socialist Party. And there's no electoralism in the matter of justice. The zero role of Minister Catalá and Mr Rueda as of January 1, 2016 is pure electoralism, because there can be no zero role as of January 1 if no previous duties have been done. The question is whether or not we want a modern justice or whether we want Justice to remain at the levels of the 19th century, the 1800s and the peak, precisely to use the time to limit people's rights or to favor those involved in judicial processes that are no longer called Juan Pueblo, but are called Luis Bárcenas or Rodrigo Rato. Catalan seems to have a nicer look than Minister Gallardón, but he really does the same as Mr. Rueda and Mr. Feijó's Government, which is to say, we're going to hold a meeting to tell you what we're going to do but we don't ask you first. And the reality is that without new architectural infrastructures, no money -- I repeat again -- without a decent RPT and no decent computer work, there can be no Judicial Office. What you're doing – and I've already said it the other day, and the CEO-general recognized it – is that everything that comes in telematically, computerally, in the judges is printing on paper, because you keep working on paper. And it's a month, a month and a little, so that that zero part of what the People's Party is talking about is actually an electoralist measure. You can't do all this at zero cost, and therefore it's not true what President Feijóo told us today that you can do more with less, and Justice is precisely the palpable example. With regard to the amendment of the People's Party, since they speak of the year 2016 and indeed 2015 is about to end, I would like to propose to the Members, the spokeswoman of the People's Party, who accepts the replacement in our request for the year 2015 by the end of 2016. I mean, the deadline you asked us when you were right in front of the microphone, we accepted the deadline, which would be the end of 2016, but with our text. And I want to finish with words today from the General Council of the Judiciary – which is not a majority socialist body – and which today says: "Spanish justice is not ready for digitization." Someone answer why. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u156	Thank you very much, Mrs. Vilan. Well, you'll tell me at any rate if any agreement is reached before the vote. We continue with non-law proposals. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Alternative Glaga de Left, at the initiative of Mr. Antón Sánchez García, on the demand to be made by the Government of Greece to the President of the Central Government in connection with Iraq's past war
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u157	This motion for a non-law has been tabled amendments by the Joint Parliamentary Group and the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u158	To formulate the non-law proposal, Mr. Antón Sánchez, of the AGE Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u159	Madam President, the PNL was to ask Mr. Rajoy to apologize for entering the Iraq war with a lie ahead. He forgot to say it. Well, in 2003 the Spanish Government, presided over by José María Aznar and where Mariano Rajoy was second vice president, decided to support and enter an illegal, immoral and unjust war in Iraq. The pretext for concealing the true objectives of military operation, which were – as we know and know – geopoliticals and the control of energy resources, was that Iraq had weapons of mass destruction. It was famous that picture of the Azores where, apart from international legality, the American, British and Spanish governments announced their intention to invade Iraq. That war is the story of an infamy cooked up in the offices of a number of think tanks neoconservatives in Washington long before the first tanks of the coalition crossed the Iraqi borders. He used as a pretext the fallacy of weapons of mass destruction of Satrap Saddam Hussein. The fighting was launched by the UN, which never authorized the invasion, and had as the launcher that last of the Azores peak in which Bush, Blair and Aznar participated, with Barroso as the host. The delusions of greatness, the complexities and immorality of Mr. Aznar were reflected in his maximum expression in this performance. That's right, this unconditional support also brought you business and pingue benefits for your future. The results of that infamy we already know: hundreds of thousands of innocent civilian victims killed by bombings, criminal shootings. The result was chaos in Iraq, which was ruled by a dictator, but a friend while interested in the interests of the Americans. The war left a country in ruins, with millions of exiles and displaced; a latent sectarian conflict and a weak, corrupt and authoritarian government. The ban on the torture and shame of Guantanamo and Abu Ghraib also opened, among others, where terror often applied to those who said that they were going to defend democracy and freedom. Today we have countless evidence of the daily application of torture, of the lifting of concentration camps, not to mention the kidnappings of civilians, including children, who were sent to the concentration camp in Guantánamo, Cuba, many times before by Spanish territory. It also killed everyone who wanted to tell the uncomfortable truth about how the murder machine operated that we supported. Journalists and photographers were killed while doing their job so that the world didn't see reality, including José Couso, for what we continue to demand justice. The Spanish state, very firm and authoritarian with the weak but submissive to the powerful, also plays in this a shameful role of the total absence of dignity defending a fellow countryman. So much about patriotism for other things and so little dignity for these. It has served, yes, to arrange reconstruction contracts in Iraq to American and Western companies in general to control their oil wells, since there it finds those that are perhaps the world's second oil reserves and their extraction is very cheap, no permafrost, no aboriginal maritime drilling. For U.S. strategists, it was paramount for Iraq to remain under its control as a submissive customer state that had also hosted U.S. military bases right in the heart of the world with greater energy reserves. This war strengthened terrorist and jihadist groups, previously armed by the United States and supported by very democratic governments, such as Saudi Arabia, where government violence against the humble is practised daily. On the contrary, the few democratic opposition that had resisted in Saddam Hussein has been repressed. This war, after Afghanistan, has also opened the way for other operations designed by untrustworthy and hypocritical purposes of the struggle against international terrorism and for democracy. Libya and Syria are cases of what I say. The strategic economic goals behind these wars are rarely mentioned. These military projects are presented to public opinion as part of the global war on terrorism and claim that the aggressor is Al Qaeda and the Islamic State. War crimes, including the torture of civilians, have been grossly presented as collateral damage. It's not wars of liberation from anything, it's mere submission to the dictates of the strongest. Here society rose in 2003 against war, did not swallow up the lies of power and claimed that a society in peace cannot be built on State violence. Hundreds of thousands of people rose up in Galicia, the Spanish state, Europe and the world shouting "no to war." The weapons of mass destruction did not, of course, appear so clearly that one of the promoters of this infamy, Tony Blair, has just publicly apologized for and acknowledged the errors that justified the intervention, bringing in misinformation of intelligence about what would happen in the country after the invasion and saying that this invasion could have affected the birth of the Islamic State. We do not believe that with this Mr. Blair can settle accounts with history, because we believe that, if there was real justice in the world, it would be applied against those responsible for the death and suffering of thousands of men and women, children and children unjustly murdered for the sake of purity, for the suffering caused by the generations to come and for the violence that arose afterwards. But we think it's the least you can say when that lie is already so obvious, that lie that our society knew from the very first moment. That's why we are asking for this initiative to urge Mariano Rajoy to apologize, excuse me for being part of a government that has irresponsibly supported a war of robbery for energy resources and which has created more problems and damages than it has resolved. We already know the response of the infamous Aznar: "In terms of international influence and support to our goals, Spain has won, and on Spain alone," Aznar says in a letter to Foreign Minister José Manuel García-Margallo. Did Spain win? Yes, the business of his friends, as always; coherent thought of a corrupt man. But Rajoy, as president of a government who at the time supported the war, as a member of that government and as head of the opposition he continued to defend the years after, must at least apologize for a decision that caused death and pain. Here or in Iraq, the dead are from the people and those who benefit are the powerful on one side and on the other. Hatred and terror of violence generate more hatred, terror and violence. That's why we say "no to war" and expect the support of all groups. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u160	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. Intervention of parliamentary groups. Mrs. Churches.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u161	Good morning again, gentlemen. Aznar, Bush, Durão Barroso and Blair would have to be tried and convicted for crimes against humanity by the Hague Court, but it wasn't. We live in an unfair world where the impunity of criminals is a daily matter. The sadly known as the Three of the Azores, whose photo visualizes the agreement that led to Iraq's invasion and bombing in a war that was described as illegal – as if some war had been legal – a war that ended with the murder of hundreds, thousands of civilians – called collateral damage – and the destruction of a country with a secular regime with high per capita income, a country that now suffers from a civil struggle, the loss of an artistic heritage for the most important humanity and a brutal impoverishment, an unbearable suffering. A war that has destabilized a wide area of the planet, affecting everyone, and that has fed and increased the germ of Iranian terrorism, as we are checking today. He said Eleusis' Squill: "The truth is the first victim of a war," and so it was. With the argument that Saddam had weapons of mass destruction – something that was false, as it was later demonstrated – it began and carried out an invasion whose only objective was the plundering of energy resources in this area. The President of the Government of Spain for those, José María Aznar, and also all his ministers and ministers were complicit in a genocide war, with the result that the world is less secure and less democratic, so they should also ask for forgiveness, as well as all the Members and Members of the People's Party who pressed the "yes to war" button in an atmosphere of algarabia and laughter. Shame! Such acts show the moral swab of the People's Party, while in the streets the rest of Spanish, German, European and world citizenship was protesting the intervention of one of the most important mobilisations that have taken place in the state and of those which this Member has attended. "Not to war." It will be history, history – with capitals – that which he intended to pass as a great statesman a gentleman from Valladolid who put us in the war encouraged by an exaggerated ego and unbearable sovereignty. It will be history – with capital letters – that judges and condemns them, as it is today. In the resolution of this PNL, which I will support with my vote, the demand for forgiveness from the President of the State, Mariano Rajoy. She thinks that this request for forgiveness must be transferred to all that government and its President. I think it's nice to apologize, but, even if I do, I want to express from this lecture that none of the accomplices and accomplices and architects of any war will have my forgiveness; no forgetfulness or forgiveness. Thank you. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u162	Thank you, Mrs Iglesias. Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u163	Very good day again. Iraq's war was carried out under the construction of a great lie, it was a criminal invasion, a fraud and a lie built to justify an act that was decided on in advance and which had as its sole objective to dominate an area of great geostrategic interest. A lie, a fraud recognised, actually now by Tony Blair, who, in fact, is passing through, after that recognition, would have to be tried and convicted by the International Court of The Hague. But we see that there are people here who can make confessions of crime without any consequences. It is clear that the real objective was to appropriate the oil reserves and completely destroy the country's infrastructure and then the capitals of the owners of the world would go generously and kindly to rebuild it. In the years following the so-called preventive war against the axis of evil, there were many countries that demanded participation because of the looting, the pillage that was left of the desolation of this territory. The incursions of the world powers to combat the so-called evil axis had their replicas in the following years, replicas that only they did were to multiply violence, conflicts, diaspora, millions of desperate emigrants trying to reach Europe, where they are repelled with that unbearable inhumanity and contempt that we are seeing every day in the media. And replicas: Afghanistan no 2001, Iraq no 2003, Libya no 2011, Mali no 2013, the military escalation of the Zionist State against the people of Israel or that of Morocco in Western Sahara. The terrorist attacks of the past 13 in Paris struck all of us and all of us, aroused a sense of indignation, concentrated the attention of the public and motivated pronouncements of condemnation, pronouncements among those of the Galician Nationalist Block, just as we obviously condemn all the terrorist attacks that have suffered by many other peoples in the world, in Europe, in the Middle East, in Africa or in America. But that condemnation will not lead us to a position of adapting ourselves to the official discourse, to the speech of the hexemonic forces of the world, which at this time want to use the shock caused by the butchery in Paris to legitimize its political strategy, the political strategy of hiding under that response to terrorist attacks, because the real imperialist robbery, led by the American master, but followed in a manner that is entirely delightful by the leaders of the European Union, as good allies they are. Of course, at the BNG we argue that the response to terrorism necessarily requires the fight against its deepest causes, causes that are political, economic and social in these cases. Combating terrorism calls for political, financial and military support from terrorist groups to be subsidised. The fight against terrorism must be linked to cutting the trigger to economic resources, since in this case it is the so-called Islamic State or Daesh, either of Al Qaeda, or those we use the name we want to use. But the escalation of interference and war, of the imposition of measures that undermine fundamental rights and freedoms, has been found to have failed to combat terrorism; on the contrary, it has found that it has fueled the growth of these forces, forces that have been imposed, fed, instructed and paid for by those who will soon save those peoples. So we agree with that initiative, but it is also clear that Iraq's war was a chapter in that black book of imperialist interference and imperialist robbery. That's why BNG is presenting an amendment to this initiative...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u164	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u165	...that what we demand is precisely not war. We ask "no to war" if that "no to war" serves to win elections or if it doesn't serve to win elections. We ask "no to war" and we also say no to military structures like NATO; we say it in the past, we say it in the present and we say it in the future. What we demand in our amendment is that the German Parliament urges the Government of the Spanish State to stop applying and supporting imperialist policies, to the Government of the Spanish State, whoever is in that Spanish government...,
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u166	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u167	...that he ceases to implement imperialist policies, that he ceases to carry out military interventions behind that situation and that he defends and implements a policy of internationalist solidarity and anti-imperialist action throughout Europe. I mean...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u168	Thank you very much, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u169	...what we demand is a "no to war" with all the consequences, not a "no" preventive or a "no", eh!, that it's interesting, but a "no"...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u170	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u171	...and that the Spanish state is asked – I insist, whoever is in that Spanish government – a change in imperialist policies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u172	Socialist Group. Mr. Méndez Romeo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u173	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the war in Iraq, the decision of the Aznar Government to enter the Iraq war, had two important consequences: the first, the massive demonstrations of the winter of 2004; the second, the electoral defeat in March of that same year. Previously, Spain had the most deadly attack in history, with 192 fatal victims. The Socialist Party then compromised the withdrawal of Iraq's war if it won the elections, and did so on the same day as the President's takeover. We made a commitment in no way, but also in an effective way. [[Applause]] And we said something else, and we kept it for those years. We said that Spain, as a State, should not participate in international missions unless they were sponsored by international agencies, for example later on with the ISAF reconstruction mission in Afghanistan, sponsored by the United Nations. I must say that until today the current government of Spain has maintained that same position. But this initiative is due at a particularly dramatic moment. Last year there were 13,000 terrorist attacks in the world, in which 33,000 people died and 93 countries from all continents were affected. We are faced with one of the problems that defines our time and one other problem that is being extraordinarily difficult to eradicate. In the face of this problem, we believe that there should be no response under emotional pressure, as dramatic responses as military ones, nor, under such emotional pressure, to implement situations that mean restrictions on rights and freedoms, which are the very characteristic of Western countries, nor to resort to extra-limitations of force that have no well-defined objectives. We are aware that the Paris attack is outrageous, in the same way that it has been attacking those of very recent dates in Ankara, Beirut, Sinai or even yesterday in Tunisia. But the answer must not be disproportionate. In the end, we must recognize that the people who attended Paris were young Europeans, raised in the bosom of lay institutions, in the heart of the most advanced Europe, socialized in our societies with levels of well-being that their families never knew in their countries of origin. And it was there, in the heart of Europe, where they were recruited and indoctrined by people who are known to governments and also funded by entities known to governments. It unfolds in an initial approximation that there have been horrendous failures of intelligence and police intelligence. We believe that the response to the phenomenon of terrorism must take account of these circumstances. Today the apparent enemy is the ISIS, a decade ago was Al Qaeda. In this decade three countries have been destroyed: Iraq, Syria and Afghanistan, and yet the problem is worse than ever. We believe, therefore, that it takes a much more careful answer, an answer that puts the emphasis on consolidation of countries that are at risk of failure. The bankrupt countries are now Libya, Iraq, Somalia and some others. And we cannot opt solely for bombs, disregarding the consolidation of countries that put a stop to the economic and social causes that provoke the formidable exodus that we are receiving, because that exodus is also breaking the solidarity of European countries and probably the arrival of more fanaticized people. We believe that, in the face of terrorism, the first answer must be to separate it from political confrontation, and this must be said in Spain, where unfortunately we have a long experience of living, living and facing the terrorist problem. That is why we believe that today's best road is precisely what is taking place in Madrid at the meeting of the anti-Yihadist pact, in which all those democratic parties who want to participate participate. From there will come the way, the solution to a response to one of the most difficult problems of our time.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u174	Thank you very much. People's Parliamentary Group. Mr. Varela Suanzes-Carpegna.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u175	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Sánchez, in the opinion that you know that I have and with the utmost respect for the political and intellectual ones that I profess to you, despite the obvious location of us in the ideological background, something that I want to underline precisely in the context of this debate where precisely the democratic values that I shall then refer to, let me point out to you what is a political inopportunity for us of your initiative in the light of the dramatic situations of the moment just referred to by the socialist spokesman and that we have agreed. It logically looks for political opportunism, because there's an election call, and you yourself recognize it in the text of your own initiative when it refers to election day and makes explicit references to candidate Rajoy, Feijóo and the People's Party. But to make political opportunism in these conditions, at this moment, shocked as we are by the events of Paris, so it happened later in Mali, frightened the population in the capital of the European Union and any other place in the world where the terrorist massacre can be given anywhere, nearer or further from where we are, in these conditions, to make political opportunism, gentlemen, when the greatest threat to the well-being and progress of humanity... of humanity at this moment... [[Mr. Beiras Torrado pronounces words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u176	Excuse me a moment, Mr Varela. Excuse me a moment, Mr Varela.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u177	...and when, in fact, what is in danger is world peace...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u178	Mr. Beiras, you have a call to order. Go on, Mr Varela. Go on, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u179	...because what is in danger is world peace, the most serious situation since World War II, absolutely logical as it is... [[Mr. Beiras Torrado pronounces words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u180	Second call to order and the next one knows what it means. Go on, Mr Varela.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u181	...that means, when there are countries, like France, that have not participated in the war in Iraq and that are in the process of war, ultimately, when they endanger our security, our freedom and our life, there is obviously a serene and serious reflection. First of all, ladies and gentlemen, we are not today on a right-wing or left-wing issue, we are in the face of freedom or totalitarianism. The enemy is neither Rajoy nor the People's Party nor Feijóo. The enemy is global Islamic radical fanaticism, the enemy is totalitarian theocratic tyranny, fasci-Islamism – to say so in the words of Bernard-Henri Lédy. Its objective is not a particular State; it has supported this State or not Iraq; of course, it is all, including those Islamic States as we are seeing in Turkey, Egypt, Lebanon or even yesterday in Tunisia. His initiative, Your Honor, has an impact on what one of the great experts in terrorism in our country, Fernando Reinares, calls "the transfer of guilt", one of the side effects that terrorism intends to generate the effect of self-indictment in our societies, sowing divisions, generating doubts, what have we not done well?, or, to say so in Umberto Echo's words, "Terror seeks not only to kill, but to destabilize the enemy." The answer is nothing other than the answer that we have just seen in France, the secular, tolerant, republican and socialist France, today: the union of Democrats, to mark the true enemy, the one who does not tolerate our freedoms and values, the union against fanaticism, or, if they prefer, against the imposition of submission, to say so... the union against fanaticism, against submission, if they prefer to say it with the words of Houlelebecq in their last and surprising novel. [[Applause]] Error recognition. Yes, of course, we all made mistakes and all made mistakes, both in Iraq and outside Iraq. The story is full of mistakes. By the way, Tony Blair – and allow me to listen to the original and full version of CNN – does not apologize for the Iraq war, as you affirm in your own initiative, but explicitly reaffirms itself in the correctness of your decision to overthrow the tyrant Saddam Hussein. [[Murmurs.]] He regrets – yes – and apologizes for the mistakes of intelligence services in the assessment of weapons and in the reconstruction after the war. [[Murmurs.]] Errors will be made, possibly in Syria, when we see in our retina, if we still have these shocking images of the refugees, who strike the conscience of any European of good. Where's the UN? Where is the common foreign and security policy of the European Union itself? Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we must not create divisions to give arguments and bases to the enemy who wants to annihilate us, we cannot go back to the medium and barbarism that want to impose and cannot tolerate those who do not tolerate the achievements of centuries of our advanced societies, who do not tolerate our tolerance, who do not tolerate our religious freedom, of thought, the release of women and of the different sexual options; those who do not tolerate our democracy...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u182	It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u183	...and prefer, in front of the polls, kalashnikov, and even tolerating do not tolerate our leisure, whether this is a rock concert, a soccer game or just a drink on the terrace of a coffee.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u184	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u185	'Finished.' We are facing an unprecedented historical challenge, as we have just heard also the spokesman of the Socialist Party. The situation is complex and the solutions are complex too. We need no less Europe, but just the opposite: more Europe and more international cooperation.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u186	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u187	And together with the hard powers, we must also use the soft powers, in this case, as says Sami Naïr, the integration of moderate Muslims also in what he calls the ghetto of banlieue. It imposes the union, ladies and gentlemen, at this moment, and today we can take advantage of this opportunity, as did the French parliamentarians...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u188	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u189	... instead of dividing up for or by a captive political opportunism. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u190	Thank you very much. Parliamentary group which is the author of the non-legislation proposal. You have the word of Mr. Anton Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u191	Well, first I wanted to thank the groups for their support, saying that we're going to accept the amendments but how to add them. I was not clear about the Socialist Party's voting position. And as for the People's Party, Mr Varela, you say you respect me, I already have less. Cinism and hypocrisy of the People's Party. We've come here to demand an ethical gesture and to err, because we demand an ethical gesture to which it seems to be unethical. We didn't expect another answer either, but then they won't ask us for hypocritical minutes of silence and don't come with speeches on human rights or that human life is the first. You're defending war criminals, defending violence against the civilian population, protecting those who do business with the war at the cost of destabilizing vast areas of the world, causing death, poverty, hunger and suffering. His speech is cynical and hypocritical, of those who speak about fighting for democracy and freedom, against terrorism, when in reality there is only one interest behind it: the concentration of wealth, the basis of the control of resources that should belong to the sovereignty of these peoples. They want to fight for democracy and freedom, but you and the People's Party Government embrace anti-democratic regimes, which often violate human rights, as is the case with Saudi Arabia. You've armed, the Americans have armed the jihadist groups. You talk about condemning violence when it suits you, but you defend and defend the arms business. They're trying to criminalize us, call us opportunists who we've been defending the same position from the very first moment. Don't look like opportunists to whom we've been fighting war for a minute. This is not today, Mr. Varela, we've been claiming "no to war" since the minute, and Mr. Rajoy and the People's Party's Government have had many years to apologize for entering a war that caused a lie to them. [[Murmurs.]] There was no such report; there was a report, on the contrary, that there were no weapons of mass destruction. It wasn't a mistake, it was a deliberate lie. What you took for granted is the infamy of an unworthy government, a PP submission to the powerful and complicit in murder, torture, destruction. Someday the real culprits will be tried, and the main culprits aren't just the ones that tighten the trigger. Among the chief leaders of death and destruction in Iraq are Aznar and Mariano Rajoy, because we have memory and we do not forget.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u192	We continue with non-law proposals. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Nationalist Block Galego, at the initiative of Da María do Carme Adán Villamarín and three other Members, on the amendments that the Government of Greece must move to the Central Government for its introduction into the Organic Law 1/2004 of 28 December, of measures to protect against gender violence
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u193	This motion for a non-law has been tabled amendments by the Socialist Group and the Parliamentary Group of the Gaga de Left Alternative.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u194	You have the floor to Mrs. Adam.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u195	Thank you, President. Hello again, ladies and gentlemen. As I said earlier in the speech on the People's Party initiative today, it is November 25, even though it does not seem like it, because of the debates we have in the House, that the issue of violence against women, macho violence, which we are going to reiterate today as a feminicide, has taken little place in the debate we are going to have today in this House. From the BNG Parliamentary Group, we are obliged to reiterate an initiative that is already known, that we have already debated, that is exactly the same and that was registered in this Parliament, in this House, just a day after one of the terrible murders that we have been living in Galicia recently. I think it's good, at least in memory of the victims and the murdered women, that we remember this year is a brutal year: in the state, 83 murdered women; in Galicia, 7 women. It is honourable to Members and Members and people today who are in the common position in the streets to link up, go out with the children and children of the institutes to do different activities, in the institutions they keep minutes of silence, or those activities which administrations, in the sense of raising awareness, raising awareness, taking forward. In any city today, people, we can see these activities. But we have to ask why in the Welsh House, why we spend so little time here, why we really don't debate about what it is, what it is, what its source and what the mechanisms are, the mechanisms with which we can be lawmakers, and how to encourage the Government to improve in that prevention, in that awareness and in that accompaniment to the victims. By reviewing data from the State, one of the last agreements of the Council of Ministers, which talks about protocols, after four years, on victims of violence, we see cuts in the ranks, and let me remind you that the State has cut 26 per cent in four years in the eradication of violence against men and 61 per cent in plans related to equality. That's the data, the data that's verifiable. But besides, and today I want to make reference even if it seems to be a specific case, how is it possible that we are on the International Day against Gender Violence and still on the Vigo Vigo Violence Court not received anything about the demands made by the judge himself and by the psychosocial teams of that trial? That example, let's focus on it. We are no longer talking about big words, which the People's Party – that we will comment – do not like them. We're not talking about integral plans, but, in the face of the concrete demand of a judge of the need to have a judge or a judge of reinforcement, in the face of the demand of a judge of having two teams more than psychosocial, of which, for the time being, they just received the silence. And I mean, to go to the news published in this regard, that the judge himself has said that since four months ago he has made the administration aware of the need to have a new judge or a reinforcement judge. For now, what we know is that the High Court has denied it to him. Then they say they're going to make an assessment, but if there's a need and that need is demonstrated, and it's sent to whoever belongs to it, we can't understand that silence and I don't have to say the attitude of the High Court either. Similarly, and as I shall repeat earlier, the psychosocial teams themselves have referred to their corresponding sub-delegation, so that it has been transmitted to the director of the Imelga and, therefore, to the Vice President and Mr. Rueda, the need for two more teams to be able to decongest what is eighteen months behind in their own reports. We have here the writing that was issued by the teams, we've been with those teams and they've got us aware of the situation they're in. If we have that reality, please, we can't pass on November 25 by simply putting a link. That's not enough. It's okay, I mean, it's not a critique, I get it. Not even manifesting ourselves today in the afternoon or calling us, no. If there is such a demand in this trial and those who require it, shouldn't the Government be here today, explaining this situation to us? How is it possible that victims of gender-based violence have been late for 18 months, at least in the trial that came out to say so, waiting for reports? It's absolutely incomprehensible, and I think there's no topic today to address that is more important. That is why we are once again introducing this initiative, because we are convinced, fully convinced that it is not about the depth of this situation that we deserve. That just at some point, yes, it makes reference when there is a death of a woman who is murdered and so she can reach this House, in the Equality Commission, but it's not a central and neural issue right now for the Welsh House, as it is not for other chambers. It's not something that looks like it's really a state problem, but it's something, it's still collateral, and they're looking for remedies, they're just remedies. Because if at the request of a judge the counselor doesn't move, besides competent in justice and equality, and tries to find a solution to that problem, I don't know what has to happen anymore. We therefore introduced this initiative. We accept the amendments, because we know that the debate that there will be is going to be a debate that is not really the words that will change the situation of the victims, with the words we are not going to improve, but I personally believe that yes, I believe that by giving visibility to the problem, assuming words as a feminicide, we could take steps forward. In fact, in the face of the previous refusal, I've been looking for reports from the General Council of the Judiciary, since there are some Members who think that in the Spanish State no one uses this category, nothing more than the feminist movement. For the General Council of the Judiciary, which for me is not that – say – we want to put a balance with the feminist movement or much less, uses in the 2010 and 2011 reports on fatal victims of gender-based violence and domestic violence in the context of the couple, in those two reports, that terminology. I mean, you can check it out, if you want, as it uses exactly in the sense of intimate feminicide, which is one of the meanings that can be used. So it's not true, we dismantle that argument, which in the field of Justice in the Spanish State is never used. It's used, what happens is that we're on a land where different categories are used in a totally disparate way. But without going into that subject, I do want to stop for a moment in the social issues that we reiterate again on this initiative and, above all, since in the last statements of both the advisor himself and even the minister himself, that constant appeal to the complaint. We have always argued from this parliamentary group that it was important to denounce everything that comes from it, but we continue to think – and that is why we want to put it under debate – if we should not raise social issues any more. Because those in the complaint have already set the clear example of how when a woman denounces in a trial there is no means to attend, and that's how it is. And that's not what I'm saying, here I'm just talking about the situation of a violent trial. That's the reality. But in the past, there are many women who now need that assistance without having to file a complaint. That is why we are introducing this debate again. From our parliamentary group we believe that it is not possible on 25 November alone, only with witness acts, that we have to give the debate and that the House is the place to give this debate, from different positions. Ours already knows her perfectly well. We are defending a status as a victim of feminicide, so that we understand exactly what nature is of the victims who suffer masculine violence and what rights they must bring; the rights, that is, the improvement in the living conditions of those women's accompaniment, of the speed in processing all that these women demand through that status. We will reopen this debate. I know it's a well-known debate, but being known and repeated is no less important on November 25th. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u196	Thank you, Mrs. Adam. Intervention of parliamentary groups. [[Pause.]] Alternative Left-Galga. You have the word to Mrs. Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u197	Thank you, President. We are discussing precisely today in the morning the need to take real action in the face of gender-based violence, in addition to putting them into practice. Because unfortunately, as we already know in practice, and have denounced the appearances in the Equality Commission, in many respects the content of the equality laws is not being guaranteed. There are many aspects that are fulfilled, but there are many that are not met and unfortunately have no consequences. And yet it has also manifested itself as necessary to extend the rights contained in the law. We agree – as we have already stated on previous occasions that we have discussed this issue in the House – in the need to implement the term feminicide. We do believe that words matter, have meaning, and we have defined and assumed the different social consequences of multiple classifications of murders according to the victims. So we distinguish and talk about fratricides, parricides, genocides, grandicids, suicides and a long et cetera. And yet one might ask, therefore, what is the problem for the law to differentiate feminicide as such, so that it is recognized that women are murdered by the mere fact of being women. That the killings of masculine violence have names and have serious social consequences. In the last debate on this issue in the House we had to listen to a comment that said this was not Ciudad Juárez talking about feminicides. Since 2003, around 80 women have been officially murdered in the state as a whole. To banish this data, to trivialize the grave situation that thousands of women suffer, to banish violence, to banish psychological violence, to silent violence or to violence that we suffer every day, to be women, is a very serious fact. The assumption of protective measures, aid measures, judicial measures related to the introduction of the term feminicide in our legislation is also important and it should be valued in the right measure. And it is also to facilitate the taking of precautionary measures, as the initiative itself also indicates. The low level of protection measures, and the process that women have to endure on many occasions to reach this point, make it clear and necessary to improve legislation in this area, and also to make it meet; of course, to make it meet. Because between low protection, the absence of sufficient aid and the questioning that women have to continue to bear when they report or attend social services, because we should not miss the degree of withdrawal of complaints we still have and the number of women who dare not report. How are some women going to report if we can't guarantee them protection or help? It's finally the fish that catches the tail. We will vote in favour of this initiative, of course, and we are proposing an amendment to extend it – I thank you for your acceptance by the proposed group, because you have already communicated it – requesting that it also be claimed that people who are approaching women as victims when they are attacked by the victim's relationship: mothers, friends, women's partners... are assaulted and even murdered without these people being counted as victims of gender-based violence for statistics, or for access to related aid or related protection. We also request that minors and minors killed or assaulted also by the relationship with women – usually children and children – also account for the statistics and for the rights they should have granted in relation to being victims of gender-based violence. Unfortunately to this day, being extremely high the number of women killed, being extremely high the number of women assaulted by gender-based violence, this number would be much larger, if all these friends, these sisters, those couples, those children and girls who are invisible to justice, and it seems that they are also invisible to much of society that continues to defend and protect male violence. We will therefore vote in favour and thank you for accepting our amendment. And we ask you to take into account the importance that if you have not only the words, but what is adopted according to them, and that the House as a whole is or has the ability to vote favourably for the initiative. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u198	Thank you very much. Socialist Group. You have the word to Mrs. Acuña.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u199	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, the macho killings are increasing so that neither this House nor any Government should remain silent: forty-four orphans in the year and eight minors also killed by gender violence. Every government has to understand that it doesn't come with a minute's silence every time they kill a woman, which is necessary to get involved, because by implying governments we will be able to involve society. But the truth is, I'm afraid that the indolence, Mrs. Adam, shown by the Head of the Government of the United Nations in this matter will not help much. Nor will it greatly help President Feijóo's attitude to a case of sexual harassment of a political character, and it turns out that he does not consider it important to talk about this issue in this House. I wonder where we're going about equality with a government that behaves like this. Where we're going about equality with a People's Party that behaves like this, with ladies who act submissively and are taking care of you without saying a half word, no offense... [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u200	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u201	...as they're making us all, all, without requisition... [[Interruptions.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u202	Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u203	...just requisition now, when I remind you now.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u204	Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u205	Ladies and gentlemen, of course, the continuing killings less for the People's Party for all other people show that more must be done. But they also show that there is a need not only to do things, but to do them better. Because even today many victims don't report, others report and then withdraw that report, others report, ladies, and don't believe them, and others report and even though they report and believe them kill the same. And many young women – and this is very serious – are subjected to mistreatment without even recognizing it. Mrs. Adam, on this special day you are again proposing the inclusion of feminicide. Without a doubt, the term feminicide would include interesting changes in the concept of male violence, because feminicide is committed not only by depriving women of life, but also of dignity and integrity. This is, therefore, a broader term to define more forms and more expensive of the same problem: Machism, inequality, whose most dramatic consequence, but not only, is the murder of that woman who refuses to obey or submits to herself. But even though I think it might be an interesting debate, I have to confess to you that it's scary, because it would have to be a People's Government responsible for reforming the current laws. Unless we're at the door of a state election that we expect to be more sensitive and more committed to this subject. A change to make, among other things, a state pact against this terrorism, against this form of terrorism, against machismo. And we're going to add to your proposals and present to you an addition amendment to the point where you urge the Government of the State. And we ask that, broaden the preventive, procedural, punitive and protective provisions of state law to cover all forms of machismo. As recommended or as required – better said – to Cedac and the Istanbul Convention. But we also put our duties on the Government of the United States, this government so committed, and we ask it for three things that we consider fundamental. I would also like to ask the Presidency for a point-by-point vote to see how the People's Party feels on these three fundamental points. First of all, let the Government of the Union establish specific intervention protocols for the integral care of women who have withdrawn the complaint for gender violence; as, by the way, it is already doing in other autonomous communities, Andalusia, for example, that community that so much likes this bench. May the Government also develop early detection plans – for it is always better to prevent than to regret – to be able to act at the beginning of gender-based violence. And finally, to carry out immediately, as soon as possible, a campaign of awareness-raising and rejection of prostitution...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u206	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u207	...in the whole of Galician society; for we consider, gentlemen, that prostitution is a clear demonstration of macho violence.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u208	Thank you very much, Mrs. Acuña.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u209	We hope that our proposal will be accepted. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u210	Joint Group. Mrs. Churches.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u211	Thank you, President. Rape, torture, sexual slavery, incest, physical and/or emotional abuse, harassment, genital mutilation, unnecessary xinecologic operations, sterilization or forced maternity, mutilation in the name of a supposed beauty... There are multiple ways that male violence can take, unfortunately with the result of death in many cases. We're talking about feminicide, it's not a matter of fact on time, it's the result of patriarchal culture that normalizes abuse against women. It's not an isolated fact, an occasional fact, behind there are structural factors of subordination, domination and gender-specific inequality. Hence the need for proper regulation based on women's right to live, on women's right to live without violence. Therefore, a feminicide victim status is needed. In September 2015, the Victim's Legal Statute came into force. It is a comprehensive and comprehensive catalogue of procedural and extra-processive rights that include rights such as recognition and respectful treatment, social and economic protection and support, access to justice and compensation for the damage suffered under European law. But there's a lot of evidence in this victim's legal statute, the first one, that this legal advance is not accompanied by economic measures, nor is it equipped with specialized and trained personnel, so effectiveness is very questionable. Moreover, it does not seem appropriate to define the concept of victim in Article 2 of the preliminary draft, it may lead to the idea that only those who have been committed for crimes are considered victims. It would be appropriate for the concept of the victim to include expressly all those who have been passively subjected to criminal offences, not only crimes, but in terms of consumption and attempt, of which any damage or prejudice, not only or especially, as this precept says, physical or psychological injuries, but also any emotional, moral or economic damage. In this precept, the concept of victim is more restrictive than the current one in our state order and at European level. It should be ensured that the concept of pre-project victim is in line with the current concept set out in the Declaration on Fundamental Principles of Justice for Victims of Abuse of Power, adopted by the General Assembly in its Resolution 40/34 of 29 November 1985. In Spain, 93 feminicides in the year. Victims, many of them, who, after having denounced, are either killed or their daughters, or package them two. Given that it should make us reflect on what is being done very badly by governments and society in general. In Galicia there are only two judges of gender-based violence, who are collapsed, as are family judges. And given that the subject we are dealing with requires urgent procedure, it is paradoxical that if a divorce case is delayed it will probably result in a case of gender-based violence. Lack of investment, training of the agents involved, social awareness, lack of judgment, preventive policies and political will of a government that looks elsewhere. We're sick of repeating it. They're already reprobating Mr Baltar and then we'll give them credence in their fight against gender-based violence. Thank you, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u212	Thank you, Mrs Iglesias. For the People's Group, you have the floor to Mrs Oubiña Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u213	Good morning, or good afternoon now, everyone. Thank you, Madam President. We are here again in the face of an initiative presented by the Galego Nationalist Block, and we want to say and reiterate, above all, our commitment, that the People's Party has always had, with both support for the victims and in the fight against gender violence. It's more, no other government, both at the state level and autonomous level, has allocated no more resources or put in place more measures in the fight against violence against the masquerade than the current government of the People's Party. You spoke here about Vigo's trial. I just want to tell you the news you left yesterday about the Dean of Vigo judge, who says, "The judges in the field of gender violence work reasonably well and mourn the social alarm." And as for complaints, I want to tell you that maybe they didn't avoid all the deaths, but what we're sure about is that many victims have been saved. You yourself recognize that a similar bill has already been discussed here, where you virtually ask for a point, which is the amendment of the state law of 2004 and the Greek law of 2007 to introduce the term "feminicide." Why are we not going to support this initiative? Because we don't think this is the time and because we don't have enough studies to assess the need to modify laws that other countries want to copy. First of all, you know that last January this Parliament approved a non-permanent commission with the sole aim of assessing and evaluating the implementation of both the 2004 organic law and the 2007 legislation on gender violence. There are bodies, different groups of women, which are thus collected in the work plan. And then it will be, once these works are finished, when a report and a dictation is drawn up. We therefore consider that it is not time to make any legislative changes. Secondly, you speak of incorporating the term "feminicide." The term "feminicide" is a political claim, it is a political claim by Latin American feminist groups. Countries like Mexico, like Colombia, like Honduras, among others, have the highest homicide rates on the planet. Murders that, as you know and as we all know, are not just about gender-based violence. Countries that also have no specific laws on gender-based violence against women. And I'd like to give you an example. The terms "infanticide" or "parricide" disappeared from the Criminal Code. Do you think, Mrs. Adam, that these conducts are less regretted today than they were before? We honestly don't think so. Is the term "feminicide" a step forward or a retreat? Will you replace the term "general violence" or not? You yourself in the other intervention you had, in the past intervention, recognized that this term is controversial, that today there is no clear legal proposal by the various legal experts as to whether or not the term "feminicide" is included. And I ask, will it be because the term "femicide" is a legal term and instead the term "femicide" is a strictly political concept? I repeat that in view of this, I believe that we have one of the laws at the national and European level of the most advanced in the world, which goes beyond what you have here today. And as for accreditation, of what you've also talked about, accreditation as a victim of violence, you have to say that the German law – and you know it – has far broader requirements than those of the law of the state. In Galicia, by setting an example for you in 2014, of the 336 women with rights to periodic aid who had the accreditation of violence, 109 were accredited by sentence. And you know that 227 through another documentation. And in other autonomous communities, such as Andalusia or Catalonia, where the People's Party does not rule, they can only opt for these aid by sentence. So – I'm running out of time – to finish with, I mean, we're always going to be open to all those measures that make for greater protection of victims of gender-based violence, but we don't share what you here today are proposing to meet those objectives. So, nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u214	Thank you, Mrs. Oubina. Author group of the proposal. You have the floor to Mrs. Adam.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u215	Yes, thank you, President. As I said before, we accept the amendments that are proposed to us both the Left Galician Alternative and the Socialist Party. And I think Mrs Acuña is asking for a point vote. We can vote on points on the whole initiative, there is no problem about it. Madam Oubina, welcome at least today to accept that there are categories to describe things. Allow me to nuance it. The term "feminicide" is not a political category, as such it is an anthropological category, as was the concept of "generic". Subsequently, it becomes a political category as it is used politically from grassroots groups of women, from feminist groups, or into political debate. But as such, and we should be, I think, at least strictly, saying that it arises as a purely anthropological category and, in any case, sociological. So if we want to introduce it into the legal system then it's the problem of those who legislate, of those who legislate, and also of the whole body of law and how we want to organize it. Because for the "generous" category, to introduce it into the legal order, fundamental pillars have been moved, almost, to this Eurocentrism which today motivates us here in this House. If you don't remember, I want to remind you how many people in the legal field were facing opposition to the incorporation of "genero" because it's not rigorous and really because it's not previously incorporated. So evolution in thought... I believe that "feminicide", that "general violence" is scarce, that it does not arrive to an eagleate the whole problem, which – and taking advantage of the presence of the vice president – is not incompatible with the provision of means, because the means of the judges of gender violence have to endow, we incorporate "feminicide" or not incorporate it, we give the debate on the status of the victim of feminicide or not the demonstrator. One thing is that they comply with the laws that are in force and that they are budgetedly endowed with human and material resources, and another thing is the setting up of this debate. That's why I thank you that at least now we recognize that categories are important to think, to organize ourselves and to structure what our duty is, which is a duty to legislate. To legislate, we have to have categories. And in this case I think we're going tow, we're... it's good that we're having this debate. I'm sorry it's so late and we're all in a hurry, but it's an important debate and we're also going to move to the Equality Commission. Because if it took so much time to accept "generous violence" and today we determine that what we want is one step further, and to say clearly that we are in the face of the male terror, that women die because they are killed in the face of that male terror, let's accept that, and let's think about how we can change that situation. We already knew what the People's Party bet was, we didn't believe it was going to change in a month, but we considered it fundamental, important, on November 25, to claim human and material resources for all the judges of gender violence and those organisms that are in contact with the victims every day, and also to open a door, to open a door that we think feminicide is not from the countries...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u216	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u217	...that you don't know where, but it's a term that is usually used in many nearby laws. And we won't, but we'll see cameras that will legislate about feminicide.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u218	Thank you, Mrs. Adam. Voting of non-legislative proposals
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u219	We move on to the vote on non-legislative proposals. We shut the doors. We started with the non-legislative proposal of the Galician People's Parliamentary Group on the initiative of Mr Balsairo, who said he did not accept the amendments tabled. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. Popular of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr Miguel Ángel Santalices Vieira and nine other Members, on the performances to be carried out by Junta de Galicia in connection with the expansion project of the Costa Hospital, provided for in its master plan. The voting resulted in the following: votes in favour, 40; votes against, 7; abstentions, 24. The voting is positive. This proposal is therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u220	We voted in favour of the People's Parliamentary Group in Galicia at the initiative of Mrs Oubiña, in which I do not know whether there has been any agreement... [[Mrs. Oubina Solla asks for the floor.]] Yes, Mrs. Oubina, tell me, please, what was the deal? Give her a voice...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u221	Thank you very much, President. At that moment we have already stated that we were prepared to add, if the Socialist Party thinks so, point 2 of its initiative as an addendum. And we are also going to add, if you consider this to be the case, point 1, point 3, point 4, and point 2. I'm starting to read it, because point 2 is the same, that is, "...have enough budget for this matter, and this is mandatory...". You will have to say: "...being this training of a compulsory nature...". So we accept all the points.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u222	Is this the agreement between the groups?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u223	Yes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u224	Well, then we vote... [[Mrs. Solla Fernández asks for the floor.]] Yes, Mrs. Solla? What's the matter, Mrs. Solla? Give a voice to Mrs. Solla's chair.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u225	To pronounce me. I've already transferred you to the spokeswoman of the People's Party who we're not going to vote for either, even if you accept as an amendment...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u226	Yeah, but it's okay, there's a deal and then you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u227	Well, well, I'll transfer the positioning.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u228	You will stand by your vote. Mrs Oubina picks up the proposal and you vote for what you now think is convenient. [[Murmurs.]] Do you, I understand, as Mrs Oubiña says, accept that you add your points, the 1, the 3 and the 4 of your initiative?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u229	If you add up the points as you add, yes, but we're not going to vote for it anyway.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u230	Well, then we vote. In any case, Mrs. Solla only manifests that she agrees with the proposed transaction, though she will vote against it. That's what I understand. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Let's see, I'm the only one I ask is an interlocutor in this case, who is the author of the initiative. So, what I'd like to know is whether there's an agreement or no agreement, Mrs. Oubina. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Yes, but... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Mrs Oubina said she accepted point 2 of the socialist amendment. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Mrs. Oubina, then?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u231	Thank you, President. Let's see, regardless of whether the opposition voices don't want to support an initiative on this significant day, we are able to incorporate... [[Protests.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u232	Well, I'm sorry. Insert the same dots?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u233	We also incorporated point 2 of the Socialist Party...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u234	Sorry...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u235	...and the amendment of the AGE.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u236	I'm sorry. That's why.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u237	We're willing...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u238	But the AGE lady said yes, you don't; therefore, it would be the People's Group's initiative with the addition of Mrs Solla's amendment points. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. Galician people, at the initiative of Da Rosa Oubina Solla and eight other Members, on the regulation by the Galician Union of equal training, as well as in the prevention and fight against gender violence, from staff to the service of the Self-Government. The voting resulted in the following: votes in favour, 40; votes against, 24 with 4 abstentions. The voting is positive. As a result, this non-law proposal is adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u239	Proposal by the Parliamentary Group of the Glaga Alternative of the Left, on the initiative of Mr Fajardo Recoso, who said he accepted the amendment of the Joint Group. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. on the initiative of Mr. Juan Manuel Fajardo Recouso, on the action to be taken by the Government of Greece and the demand to be made to the Central Government in relation to the protection and inclusion of long-term unemployed persons, in particular those aged 45 years. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 31 votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u240	We voted on the proposal by the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego at the initiative of Mrs Paz Franco, to which no amendments have been tabled. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da María Teresca Paz Franco, on the constitution by the Government of Galicia of a commission to follow up the agreements adopted in Madrid to deal with the situation of the dairy sector and to make proposals to solve its problem. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 31 votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u241	We voted in favour of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mrs Acuña, who said that he accepted the amendment of the Nationalist Block of Galicia. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Excuse me, ma'am. No, no, because for this amendment in you it has to be a transaction approved by all parliamentary groups. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And the People's Group told him in the debate that he didn't accept it. So... that I didn't accept the amendment. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] So, the Socialist Group's initiative with the amendment of the Galician Nationalist Block. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of Da María Carmen Acuña do Campo and two other Members, on the adoption by the Greek Government of the measures necessary for the inclusion, before the end of 2015, of the vaccine against type B meningitis in the mandatory vaccination schedule. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 31 votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u242	We voted in favour of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mrs Vilán Lorenzo. I understand that there is no agreement and therefore does not accept the amendment of the People's Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u243	The replacement for the year 2015 for the year 2016 we partially accept it, if the Popular Group wants it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u244	But you said no. It then becomes as presented by the Socialist Group. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of Patricia Vilán Lorenzo and three other Members, on the adoption of measures by the Galician Union for the implementation, before the end of 2015, of the new judicial office in the judges of the seven great cities of Greece, as well as in all judicial party head organs. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 31 votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u245	We voted for the proposal of the Parliamentary Group of the Glaga Alternative of the Left, on the initiative of Mr Sánchez, who said that he accepted the amendments tabled. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Excuse me, I am canceling the vote. Sorry! It's just that I understood that I accepted amendments from the Joint Group and the Nationalist Block of Galicia. [[Mr. Sánchez García asks for the floor.]] Yes, you have the floor, Mr. Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u246	Yes, I agree to add the two, and I'd have three points. And I call for a separate vote on the first point, which is our proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u247	That is to say, we would vote on the first point, which is the proposal of the Gaga de Left Alternative. And, if you think so, then block the two amendments you accept. Well, we voted, firstly, point 1, which would be the initiative of the Gaga de Left Alternative. Vote for the transactioned text of point 1 of the G.P. Non-Law Proposition. of the Alternative Galga de Left, at the initiative of Mr. Antón Sánchez García, on the demand that the Government of Greece should make to the President of the Central Government in connection with the past Iraq war. The voting resulted in the following: votes in favour, 15; against, 40; abstentions, 16. The result of the vote is negative. Point 1 of the transactional text of this non-law proposal is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u248	And we would vote, secondly, on the amendments tabled which are accepted as addition to the initiative. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. on the initiative of Mr. Antón Sánchez García, on the demand to be made by the Government of Greece to the President of the Central Government in connection with the past Iraq war, except point 1 The voting resulted in the following: votes in favour, 15; against, 40; abstentions, 16. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u249	Finally, we voted on the proposal from the Parliamentary Group on the Galego Nationalist Block, on the initiative of Mrs Adán, who said that he accepted the amendments to both the Gaga de Left and the Socialist Group, and he did not care about the voting by points. So we would vote on the first of the points and the second of the points. First of all, yes, the amendments cannot, that is to say, be voted on is the resolution text. [[Madam Acuña do Campo speaks words that are not perceived.]] So what we can't vote separately is the amendment. We vote points separately with the amendments incorporated, Mrs. Acuña. Vote of point 1 of the proposed non-law G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da María do Carme Adán Villamarín and three other Members, on the changes that the Government must move to the Central Government for its introduction in Organic Law 1/2004 of 28 December, of measures to protect against gender violence. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 31 votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. Point 1 of the transactional text of this non-law proposal is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u250	And we voted on the second point of the initiative with the amendments incorporated. Vote of point 2 of the proposed non-law of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da María do Carme Adán Villamarín and three other Members, on the changes that the Government of Greece must move to the Central Government for its introduction into Organic Law 1/2004 of 28 December, of measures to protect against gender violence. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 31 votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. Point 2 of the transactional text of this non-law proposal is therefore rejected. We suspended the session until 4:30 p.m. this afternoon. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u251	The quorum, more or less... the quorum, we have the morning, there's the morning. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Quorum has it, the morning; it goes with the beginning. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Da María Carmen Gallego Calvar and two other members of the G.P. of the Galician Socialists on the employment policy of the Government of Greece
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u252	To formulate the petition, Mrs. Quintas has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u253	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon. Well, I don't speak Catalan in intimacy, but I come in intimacy. [[Laughter]] Counsellor, let's talk about employment or unemployment. The employment policy carried out by the Government of the People's Party clearly defines that the wages of the first executives of the Ibex increased by 80% in 2014 and the average wage of the worker by 1.8%, forty-four times more. This defines the crisis situation and how it manages the right, in particular, the governments of the People's Party, and in Galicia Mr Feijóo. Today is the Day against Gender Violence, and remember that violence is also practised when employment policies, policies that are currently being exercised by those who govern, which is the People's Party, Mr. Feijóo... Since 2009 women have ceased to perceive annually – according to the latest data published by the INE in June 2014 – 6,144 euros, that is, the third part of their salary. So that pay gap between women and men is even bigger. In 2009, male wages were 128.1% higher; in 2010, 129; in 2011, 129; in 2012, 131. According to the data published the gender pay gap is at 31%. Well it's true that all the jobs you're generating are precarious, women suffer even more, multiplied. Women have access to a partial, temporary and discontinuous labour market, which is the definition of precariousness. Eight out of ten part-time jobs are performed by women. And besides their precariousness is twice as much, and they are also victims of the generalized policies of impoverishment to which their governments are subjecting us, the Government of which you are part, Counsellor. October has ended with 222,000 more people, and of these 55% are women; of which we are not a collective, we are more than half the population. So in full unemployment more than half the most injured are also women. It's always the same tone: I despise the genre and without visibility towards the future. The Tax Agency publishes a report on the labour market which clearly reflects the impoverishment of people working in Galicia. The average salary in 2014 was 17,729 euros annually, indicating that they lost 13% of their purchasing power. We are in a state of labour poverty, and that's not what the Socialist Group says, that's what international bodies say. And the precariousness of employment is extreme: 177,000 people with part-time jobs entered less than 2,000 euros a year, 123,000 people didn't reach the 7,000 euros a year, more than 300,000 people in Galicia are poor workers. In addition, 131,000 Galicians receive a monthly salary of 800 euros, and in this group the female collective stands out. Deteriorating the quality of employment, deestimating wages, precarious working relationships is the path or goal of the European right, the Spanish right and the right of Galicia. We don't know or know, because we refer to the facts, the data and the policies applied. The crisis in the form of job losses and wage reductions passed only to employees' wages. It seems, Counselor, intentional, and I say: it seems. The average declared salary has fallen to €18.420, which is the lowest level since 2007, and stands at 3.6% lower than the level it reached in 2010. And you are speaking of growth; growth, for whom?, counsellor, growth for whom? The data say that growth is for the great fortunes, but it would be good if I also explained it to you. The fall in the average wage of 2014 is mainly due to workers entering the world of work entering precariously and with lower wages. The wages ten times the minimum wage, those by which companies declare more than 90,000 euros, i.e. almost 6,500 euros a month in fourteen payments, those salaries, Counsellor, have not stopped growing. The data show that 35% falls below the minimum wage, and nearly half of the wages are below EUR 14,000 per year. Even people with right-wing ideology, the Belgian Democratic Christian Marianne Thyssen said that precariousness cannot become normal. I don't know if it's an intervention to help the generals' election campaign in Spain or simply because they believe it. If anything has reached this crisis is that it has increased the differences. And the policies on the right, Mr. Feijóo's policies in Galicia have no intention of changing that trend. The reality, Counselor, is that they sell us that employment grows, and, being false, the worst thing is that the jobs that are being created are of the worst quality, of the greatest temporality. And this is basically happening since the People's Party ruled, and this is not solely a fault for the period of deep crisis that Spain and Galicia lived. In the current context, the budgeting of this board, autonomous bodies, instrumental public bodies, consultation or advisory bodies and autonomous public agencies clearly reflects a lack of strategy to correct this reality and this data. The policies that are developing Galician governments, as well as the Government of Spain, are walking into an internal devaluation process with a strong drop in wages. Employment budgets are in principle unlikely, as the increase in the occupied population does not correspond to the expected increase in gross domestic product for Galicia and Spain. EPA data in the third quarter, a quarter in principle favourable for vacation months, said Galicia has 60,100 more unemployed people and 129,500 less occupied since President Feijóo came to power. With more unemployed and less busy, less budget was allocated to the fight against unemployment: 2,500 euros per unemployed was being spent in 2009 compared to the 850 euros per unemployed that were devoted to the year 2015. Staff is assigned to work in the orientation and insertion of work but, of course, this staff is needed to return to the Fraga era and to the privatization of these services. The accumulated falls in the different programs since 2009 are very significant. Let's see: in function 32, Employment promotion and labour market institutions, the reduction since 2009 was 50%. It's inexplicable with the unemployment ceilings and the minimum number of registered employees. 322A, Building employability, has been reduced by 56%; 322C, by 50%; 323B, Job Qualification Enhancement, by 80%. It doesn't seem to interest the qualification. Well, I already said Mr. Rajoy's Minister of Government that they were remaining university students in this country.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u254	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u255	And that's the real program of the People's Party Government, and that's the real program and application of the program that has been made in Galicia by Mr Feijóo; seven lost budgets. I repeat what international agencies say: one in four people is in extreme poverty. But being some data I gave to the state, Galicia is worse...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u256	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u257	...for employment falls by 12.4% in Galicia and 6.7% in Spain, estimated unemployment grew by 24.4% at national level and more than twice as much in Galicia. In the period 2010-2014 – which are the data for rigority, the published data – the Welsh economy has contracted 1.1%...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u258	Finish it, Mrs. Quintas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u259	...and Spain 0.6%.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u260	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u261	Finally, the People's Party has sparked public investment...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u262	That's it, Mrs. Quintas. Please, stop it now.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u263	It's over, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u264	Thank you, thank you very much. Response from the economic, employment and industry advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u265	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. Quintas, I am grateful for your initiative because, as you know, employment policies are the main concern of this government, and, logically, the main objective of all economic policy and all industrial policy is, in fact, to develop all possible initiatives so that all those workers – at this moment more than 222,000 – who want to find a job can find that opportunity. What I regret is that it brings to this chamber a disorderly debate, mixing all kinds of figures and data, and even trying to transfer that this government has some responsibility for the salaries of the principal directors of the Ibex companies, which, as you know, is not part of this government's policy of action. I therefore think it is good to bring this Parliament an open and constructive debate on employment policies, but I insist that it should be an orderly debate. And in that sense I understand from your intervention that you understand that the situation of economic crisis and that the situation that the labour market currently has is not – I said textually – "just blames the crisis." So, logically, I remind you that this situation that we have been going through over the last few years has a primary responsibility, which is precisely the governments that your party has developed from Madrid. Because I have to remind you how you left a public deficit situation in this economy of about 10%; I have to remind you how they practically doubled Spain's public debt; I have to remind you how they left a commitment of EUR 10,000 a year from the electricity tariff, which would accumulate at these EUR 26,000 million energy deficits; and I have to remind you, Your Honor, that you are telling me about active policies like you after you have developed unrealistic budget planning, you have left this community having the obligation to return to the state more than EUR 2,200 million, which we still have to pay. So, Your Honor, I think it's good to have an orderly debate, I think it's not good to propose and mix the data and, unfortunately, your legacy is not solely responsible. I would tell you that your legacy is the great responsible for the situation that, unfortunately, the Spanish economy and the Spanish labour market have had to go through over these years. Logically, this government is working to correct this situation, we've been doing it since 2009 and, as you know, and I'm now referring to the data, Galicia now has a lower unemployment rate than it did in 2010. In fact, you know, and I'm referring to the current data, that unemployment has fallen to more than 21,000 people this past year, which represents a 9% decrease and which with this descent, Your Honor, we've had two consecutive years of international casualties. So, Your Honor, I think it's good to reflect reality and, therefore, to have that market ordered. I was wondering what the initiatives this government is developing to correct this situation and to deal with labour policy. Indeed, if we believe, Your Honor, that we are developing an economic strategy that is in a permanent process of evaluation with different economic and social agents and which, logically, is a successful strategy, because the policies of this government are trying to strengthen ideas, talent, resources. And we are pushing for a new model of growth sustained in competitiveness and knowledge, which is what must result in placing employment in Galicia in the situation that we all want and, logically, a more stable job and a higher quality job. In that sense, they know that we are developing an economic and industrial policy planning focused on three main areas: innovation policy, industrial policy and internationalization policy. Logically, because of the application of the various measures, we understand that this is the path of economic recovery in which we are already immersed and that it is the fruit of that consensus and support of economic and social agents, with the only exception of this rule of opposition groups, because, simply, you are the only one who develops is a policy of not everything and not definitely Galicia. So we're developing a concrete strategy, we're betting on the recovery of all those strategic sectors, of the emerging sectors, and logically, as I told you, we're developing a concrete policy from the industrial and economic point of view. You're telling me about the employment policy budgets in economic policy. As you know, next year's Galician Union is going to spend about EUR 445 million on economic and employment promotion policies, which almost amounts to a 20% increase over this year 2015. Logically, these policies of economic promotion and employment are intended to support our industrial and business fabric, and above all, honourable Member, people in a situation of unemployment who may have that support they need to find that opportunity. Therefore, all the Greeks who seek a job or who want to improve what they have know they have at their disposal these measures. To strengthen their employability and facilitate their recruitment in Galicia, we'll spend the next year 85 million euros. In addition, they will be able to benefit from a new effort by the Galician Council to update and expand its qualifications through training of over 52 million euros. And I support this advice also to facilitate entrepreneurship, which will amount to about 40 million euros. In this way, Your Honor, Galicia once again has a clearly expansive budget, and now, logically, we understand that through this employment policy, this economic and industrial policy, we can provide answers. As for the pay gap between men and women, I must tell you that the data from the National Institute of Statistics point to an increase in women's wages by 3.2%, i.e. more than one point above the men's rise, which is 2.1%, and that Galicia, Your Honor, is the second community where they go up, while the national level is falling by 0.12%. So since Galician union we will continue to work to promote women's employment, we will continue to promote equality and we will maintain positive discrimination in active employment policies, which is what we are developing, and also enhancing equality plans, a commitment that reflects an increase of 28% in the 2016 budget for aid to businesses. So a concern and an occupation so that, in fact, labour equality is a reality in Galicia and, logically, we will continue to deepen those policies of positive discrimination. And you're also telling me that today is the International Day of Victims of Violence. As you know, under the Programme for the Promotion of the Employment Integration of Women Victims of Violence, women have a preference for access to employment improvement programmes, in particular vocational guidance services, training courses, training and employment mixes, as well as cooperation or experience courses. Thus, these women can also access additional incentives for their recruitment, on the other hand and in the different self-employment formulas, and also in the vocational training courses for employment, women victims of gender-based violence have the right to economic assistance per day of attendance. In the period 2009-2014, through these various active employment policies, these policies of positive discrimination against women victims of violence were addressed by 786 women, with a total budget of 10.5 million euros. So I'm not only a concern about equal work, but also a special and more intense concern to facilitate the inclusion of women victims of violence. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, an active employment policy, an industrial economic policy that is geared towards opening these opportunities to all the Greeks and Greeks who wish to work, which is our responsibility and that is why we are working. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u266	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mrs. Quintas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u267	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm sorry, Counselor, not to be all the organized you need, but as I understand you have all the advice to pass the data on to you, regardless of whether you use only what suits you for your election campaign and to defend what you have to defend, which is your government, but, well, telling the truth from time to time is also advisable. I'm sorry that this organization that likes you so much does not allow you to attend to people who are organized at the doors of Parliament protesting about their employment policies, their industry policies, their health policies, their education policies, their budget cuts, because their children are out, because universities no longer have scholarships. I'm sorry that those people who are organized, because you like organization, don't listen to it and don't listen to it. Counsellor, it is certainly true that you have nothing to do with the wages of the Ibex directors, but it is curious that the governments of the European, Spanish and German right will allow the highest wages to rise forty-four times more than the wages of the people, which some will even vote for you. [[Applause]] I thought we were here in Parliament to talk about politics, but it is forbidden to talk about politics, at least what you don't like. They understand by politics obedience due to what you like. You make a lot of reference to Eve's apple, to proper obedience, to problems stay at home and you don't have to air them. Mr. Counsellor, thank you for Galicia!, seven years of Mr. Feijó's budgets with a default strategy, although you have nothing to do with the wages of Ibex, default, precariousness, part-time jobs, less university, less public services. You, on the right, are changing the welfare state by default, not because of the crisis, not exclusively. As the data seems to have overwhelmed him, I won't give him any more, among other things, because you have all of us. Look, Counselor, you inherited an poisoned councillor. Budgets in employment simply add this: EUR 768 million. You inherit an poisoned councillor, a councillor where you stand out more for an alleged illegal funding from the People's Party than for another matter. You inherit a council where – recently we read in a newspaper – there seem to be eleven screenings for some training courses that were subsidized by the Galician Union and that will all be investigated. The president of the Galician People's Party and President of the Government of Galicia has not yet given explanations of their dangerous relations with many people, but has not explained what happened with the training courses in the province of Coruña. I see that as a prize to the advisor, they put it in the environment. Mr. President or any of his advisors have not yet explained or provided us with documentation on Martial Dorado, Pachi Lucas, smugglers' mayors, Operation Campeon, the Gürtel case, Operation Zeta, the elderly carriage, the declarations of the world of drug trafficking involving the People's Party. The answers to this series of events are not investigated, the president every time he comes to Parliament talks about anything less than what he has to say, as President of the People's Party does not cease the stalkers, the documentation to which we legally have the right is not made easier, the committees for the study of the prevention of corruption are blocked. It is not enough for the President of the Union to show up when he comes here to Parliament to talk about what he thinks. Counsellor, the People's Party, for the job, the only thing he did is that forty young people a day go outside of Spain, that women have an increasing breakdown in wages...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u268	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u269	The People's Party, the Government of Rights over nearly seven years in this country, has increased unemployment, increased precariousness. And now it's not enough to change people, Counselor, we have to change policies. And in the Socialist Group we hoped that people would change their policies with change.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u270	Finish up, please finish up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u271	But we see that, unfortunately, Mr Feijóo is happy with the employment policies, which have taken seven years for this country to increase in numbers of unemployed. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u272	Thank you, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u273	Ah!, and Mr. Zapatero has lost his election, is that it's an obsession, seven years have been here.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u274	Thank you, Mrs. Quintas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u275	Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u276	Close round, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u277	Mr. President, thank you very much. Mrs. Quintas, the truth is that at least this afternoon it is useful to see that, indeed, you recognize that the situation that is going through Spain derives directly from Mr. Zapatero's policies, which, logically, have defended from this government. At least, I appreciate that recognition, I regret that these policies put Spain on the path of a situation of enormous difficulty for all Spaniards, and particularly for all Greeks, and we are trying to reverse these situations, as it is shown by the correction of the public deficit, the correction of the debt path itself, the correction of the tariff deficit from the energy point of view and the sanitation of the financial system itself. [[Applause]] It's good that since the Socialist Party in Galicia you recognize, and I thank you publicly. In any case, Your Honor, we passed from a first intervention of yours, in which you transferred a series of disorganized data, to a second intervention, where you unfortunately fell into demagogy, trying to throw different kinds of expressions at random, where you mix everything, but you don't know what you really mean because you don't find anything. You're telling me about illegal funding when these courses are being investigated you know perfectly well that they're being investigated for falsity in public documents. So, I think that this government, logically, will be alert and at the disposal of justice in all that is appropriate, but at that moment we are talking about falsification of public document. I therefore believe that these debates must be tackled with a minimum of seriousness, and I believe that they provide concrete data. You don't want to give specific data, I'll give it to you: You tell me about wage poverty. You know that Galicia is the fourth autonomous community with the lowest rate of poverty, you know it perfectly well but you don't want to move it; you know the reality is that Galicia has three consecutive trimesters of annual growth of busy, and you also know that the employment rate has grown in the last year at more than one point, remaining at 44.1%. So you know we're working to fix this unemployment situation, and that's also true of the quality of employment. No one denies that the crisis has brought with it a greater temporal concentration, part time in recent years, but Galicia, Your Honor, because these are the data, it counts today with a structure of employment in which eight out of ten people have a full-time job, and you know it. He knows that 72.5 percent of employees have an indefinite contract, and he knows that the reality is that two out of three employees are undefined with full-time employment contracts. This is the reality of Galicia's employment structure. So I think we need to talk about something as serious as employment policies with a minimum of rigour and actually giving the data they can provide so that these policies of employment and economic activation that the Government is developing can produce the result. What we are fully aware of, sir, is the problem with the situation of unemployment in Galicia, and that is why we are, in fact, maintaining all the active employment measures and we are also maintaining all the agreements in the wake of social dialogue and institutional collaboration. So in this context, what I can tell you is that we will continue to promote these employment policies, we will meet the needs of all the unemployed. And to finish, Your Honor, if I may tell you that when we arrived at the Government of Galicia in 2009, we had a very clear objective, which was to curb precisely the destruction of economic activity and to curb the destruction of employment. And we got it, together with the workers, with the companies, who were able to reverse this situation. And now, Your Honor, our highest priority is in a twofold direction: firstly, continue to work on creating new opportunities through employment policy, industrial policy, innovation policy, and also, Your Honor, to be next to families who are still living in a difficult situation because of the crisis and therefore need our approach and our support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u278	Thank you, Counselor. Da Maria Teresca's Interpellation Peace Franco and D. Cosme Eladio Pombo Rodríguez, from G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, about the catering service of the public school eaters
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u279	Mr. Pombo has the floor to make an inquiry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u280	Thank you, President. Good afternoon to all and to all. Good afternoon, Counselor. First of all, I must tell you that I am deeply sorry that you did not appear before this Parliament for your own will, nor at the request of a number of parliamentary groups, the BNG among them. The BNG, of course, regrets that you did not come to explain the situation generated by the distribution of ill-stated food by concessional companies from school dining companies in Galician Union. I'm sorry I didn't because we're talking about a serious issue: food security in public education, and because it rains on wetting on catering. The BNG hands a plea lodged just a year ago, because since that time there have been several complaints in this House about the malfunction of the dining room service that uses the catering service. The problem comes from behind, Counselor. If we do a bit of history, in 1972 compulsory education is implemented until the age of 14, the concentration of the units in schools begins, dining rooms are built to feed the transported student, because they could not return home at mealtime, which was to be transported. It was as if they were building centers with kitchen, centers with dining rooms, necessary to maintain that good food for the transported student. In these dining rooms – I can say by my own experience – menus were prepared based on local products, fresh products, sans, seasonal, Galician meat, country, milk from the land, fish, finally cooking cooked in the dining rooms themselves, healthy kitchen. And you know, Counsellor, that the BNG has always defended the public management of cooking services in school dining rooms by the board, because for us, first of all, they guarantee the fundamental right to education. That student carried if he had nowhere to eat couldn't access education. So it was a guarantee of the right to free compulsory education, first important point. But walking on time, there's a second point that's also very important, because for us we understand that it promotes the necessary reconciliation between working life and family life. There is a third important point, because many students do that, too, but now, above all, they make an important meal, in the time when 600,000 Greeks are at the edge of poverty, and because, in addition, the dining service is not only eating, but they can be promoted or should promote eating habits to ensure – say – a health for all the Greeks and the Greeks. You, Counselor, know that the BNG has always defended this direct management and that it could be done because Galicia has quality products and has, or has, the necessary staff. Unfortunately, politics in this aspect of Joining is very different, it's privatization, that is to say, cutting public investment in the dining rooms, which pay parents more and put in catering services, which is where there's more business. That is, less and less cooked food and more catering to promote the business. On March 12, 2013, from this same forum, the former councillor announced a new cut in the educational service that the entire educational community has challenged. It was the new cut in the dining room, so they forced the dining room to repay those transported that for thirty years had not done so, they increased the dining room by 40% and the public prices, in a time – I say – in which more than half a million Greeks are at the edge of poverty, and they expanded the private business in the dining rooms. Less cooked food and more catering, and unfortunately in many of them plastic food. The model rejected by the BNG and the model rejected by the Galician School Council itself, which called for the return of the German Government to that decree, nothing more and nothing less, because it had an equal opportunity. Counselor, it only rains on wet. Just a year ago, today, the Block was talking from this same forum of evil that children and girls ate at various schools served by the catering company Serunion. We were also talking about claiming the careful suspension of the concession to this company by serving menus – using textual words – "miserable" carried in lamentable conditions, while families paid abusive prices. Here's the scam of the new Dining Order, made to privatize – you know that they call it "indirect management" – and turn school dining into business. In a word: removing kitchen staff paintings, that is, people, fewer jobs; closing kitchens, which would then become closing schools, actually; worse service in these kitchens, worse quality of food and more expensive for many families. Also curiously, we talked about the lack of control over the adjudicate companies, because despite serving a terrible meal, despite paying a lot more, even though there are many complaints, it turns out that nothing happened. Today it rains on wet because a year later we have to talk again about this same problem, after many ANPA, after the majority union of teaching, many municipalities called, claimed and knocked at the gates of the council denouncing the bad service in this case two other companies, such as the Red Pearl and Col-Service; that famous Col-Service not for the Greek broth but for the bad broth. Service that these two companies provided in twenty Greek centers and service that was – let us say – denied after seriously failing to comply in several schools the conditions that established contracts with the Union itself. Service affecting 2,800 students from the provinces of Coruña, Pontevedra and Lugo, and in Chamber, Culleredo, Cuntis, Arousa, The Navy and many more. Service that affected about 2,800 students of the more than 11,000 students who are served in our country by catering. And finally, there have been many complaints, there have been many ANPAs from public centers in Galicia that have recently denounced the regrettable functioning of several catering dealers, in this case, of the companies I have just appointed. In this last course, from the beginning of the course, there were complaints in public centers: in Culleredo, in Cambre, in Cuntis, in Betanzos, in Arousa, in Cambados. And the complaints were for serious problems in the dining room since September. Problems, basically, by the low amount and also by the poor quality of food, even by food that came in bad condition to the centers: bad state lentils, bad state broth, etc., forcing even to resort to requests for food at home from snacks or pizzas not to leave children without eating. They were curious that five or six-year-olds left at four or five o'clock in the school and were hungry because I knew what they were eating wasn't enough for them. The Parliamentary Group of the BNG, of course, shares the concern and complaints of these ANPAs about the issues I have just mentioned, which provided – I say – catering to about 3,000 students in public schools in our country. We shared the allegations that he was cooking in Malaga, carrying the food, traveling this food over a thousand kilometers cold online that was then processed. Food – I say – was reported in many, not one, often insufficiently, by crusader, for lack of water to drink, poor quality food, and the varied menu sieca was very good on paper, but varied nothing at all. Col-Service took the concession at 2.75 euros/menu and Perea Rojas at 2.80 euros/menu, and at these prices it is impossible to give anyone a quality menu. Of 80 points, which were envisaged at the time of hiring services, 50 responded to nothing more and nothing less than the economic offer, and the quality practically said that there were no fundamental points that made that possible. The proof is that to supply food in the Greek dining rooms, you bring Malaga's food. This is not the first time that the Parliamentary Group of the BNG has submitted complaints to the German Parliament on this subject. The Parliamentary Group of the BNG, of course, believes that the most important thing in the dining room is to ensure food security in public educational centres and to ensure their quality. So, you have the questions that we put to you in writing, and I ask the counselor: what do you intend to do to ensure the quality of the food that is given in the Greek dining rooms?, the quality that we rely on products that are of quality...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u281	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u282	...that they are fresh and close. What did you plan to do to ensure food security? What did you plan to do to ensure the amount the students need? What do you plan to do to ensure that special menus arrive in time? And what has he planned to do so that the promotion of eating habits and health are not simple talks about how important is typical Galician food? What did you plan to do, Counselor...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u283	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u284	...to establish quality instead of business? Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u285	Thank you, Mr. Pombo. Response from the Councillor for Culture, Education and Universitary Ordering.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u286	Good afternoon, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Indeed, Mr. Pombo, this is a serious matter. We are very concerned about school lunchers – as they couldn't be otherwise – and we have been working from this service ever since with the utmost care and attention, with a tremendously comprehensive follow-up to everything that has to do with this service, which – you well said – is a very sensitive service, which is what we give our children to eat. And, well, the truth is that you bring the collation here to this debate because a last year's initiative serves as an excuse for you to join the political debate. But, well, at that moment, about a company you mentioned, and that's why I quote it here, which is the company Serunion, in this case at an oresan educational center, in Celanova. I suppose you'll know what was done at that time. There was a complaint, it was investigated, it was found and imposed a sanction on the company, a lot of it, that is, with all the procedural guarantees, with all the health guarantees and, of course, with all the contractual guarantees with a public service. We'll understand you and me who cannot be adjudicated in an arbitrary way and also understand that we can't dejudicate or resolve in an arbitrary way, it's necessary to have legal guarantees in a rule of law. And, well, in this case, in course 15-16, of what we're talking about right now, I also wanted to value a series of data that I think it's very important to know them, because they're going to allow us to make a design and a framework of what we're talking about. We're talking about the Galician Board in school dining rooms, or it provides -- better said -- more than 10 and a half million menus a year, which is not an irrelevant data: more than 10 and a half million menus a year; every day, around 72,000 menus. Of these 72,000 menus, some are provided by the Galician board – good directly, well indirectly – and others are provided and managed by the ANPA or the municipalities. If we talk about the centers that manage the Union directly, 302; indirectly, 133 centers; the ANPA manage 136 dining rooms; and the municipalities, 42. Obviously – you said it – dining services evolve. From a function basically centered on the rural environment that had to do with the imperative need to give the food so that it could complete the education cycle throughout the day, it is evolving – as I was saying – and going through – to a more family reconciliation service; it is customary in some cases that when the classes are finished, children eat in the dining room and go to their homes – as you know – as you do. With which there is evolution also in the system itself. But here's what you're proposing and questioning because it's the catering service, basically. Well, I'll tell you that the catering service is nothing new, it didn't put this government into action or put the People's Party into action exclusively. You know perfectly well that during other governments where you had responsibilities there were catering services. You know that in cities governed by nationalistic mayors there are catering services. You know that Mr. Quintana put in the galescolas catering services for children from 0 to 3 – very sensitive material –. And you know that the ANPA, which manages 133 school dining rooms, mostly, mostly, do catering services. But, well, the situation is already known. There are complaints in some centers, in particular, about two companies that are part of the same group. Obviously, once such complaints are received, the information is made and the truth of them is inspected. Obviously, it's researched, it's about information, it opens administrative files through legal channels and acts when it's found that it's true what's going on. It's the way it has to be, it's the way it is. Obviously, there is a breach in these cases, and on the basis of those non-compliances, what is done is an annulment, a termination of the contract; that's what a responsible administration does. That doesn't mean the service is bad in itself, but in specific cases, concessionary companies hurt the service and they terminate the contract, they terminate the contract. Well, I also wanted to tell you, Mr. Pombo, that at no time – and you are sure as well, you will not let me lie at any time – there was a risk that there was a health problem in the students at no time. Why? Because fortunately in school dining rooms, even though they are indirectly managed through catering, there are employees of the company itself and there are staff of the centers themselves, and when they detect an anomaly in the blocking menus and they look for alternatives, as you mentioned in these cases. With which there was no food risk at any time for children. No bridge solution was proposed. The contract is settled, there is a bridge solution and from the first day there has been no problem providing the menu with the new companies at any time. That's more, if you see the press record, you can check where it was all about absolute normality and you were talking about the fact that the business change in this case was done without any kind of problem. With what priority I see we share – and we are glad – is that the main thing to do is to ensure the food and health security of the school menus of all those centers that are managed directly or indirectly. With regard to the other issue that you have also quoted and which has also been in the public debate these days, as regards whether it is at the expense of the competition the price on quality, I'm going to tell you that it is roundly false whether the price is the main argument or whether the price is above quality. And I'll basically tell you why. Because basically quality is somehow guaranteed from the very first moment. Because all companies involved in these recruitment processes know – because it's at stake – that you have to meet certain requirements set out in a healthy menu manual, made by the U.S. Department of Pediatrics and done by Health. There is absolutely everything regulated: the type of menus, sizes, amounts, rotations, etc., that they have to meet. And then, with respect to the price variable, there obviously has to be an objective economic variable that allows or does not assign this contract to participating companies. Galicia is proposing a 60% percentage in this case; that is, the price variable is 60% of the contract. You also know that there is a 2006 Transparency Act that sets at least 40%; Galicia in this case has 60%, just like other well-known autonomous communities, like Basque Country, exactly 60% also in Basque Country; and much less than other autonomous communities, like Asturias, where the price variable is 100%. Which is to say cheerfully that the economics on the quality of the menus do not make sense, because the quality of the menus is guaranteed from the very first moment. It's not true, for this reason, that the quality of the school menus is diminished according to the bid price, because, as I said, this one comes from yours. The quality and typology, and the fatness, and everything that it has to do with the nutritional and food quality conditions comes from its own in the companies that participate in these menus. And look, we were talking about the fact that we have around 10.5 million school menus a year, a very similar amount in catering service -- practically identical -- around 11,700 students managed by the board indirectly, hired by the board or managed also by the ANPA and the municipalities. And look, you can't ask a worrying question that forced us to take action to do so as a general rule, you can't. Because it is also true, Mr. Pombo – and we must not be deceived, let us not deceive ourselves, eh! – the zero risk is impossible, in any service; in 10.5 million menus, of meals, it may arise because a specific problem arises. Just like every day, 90,000 kids go out on school buses and maybe someday -- God doesn't want it -- can have an event, but that doesn't mean anything that service is bad. And we're talking about it. And look, this isn't something from the Galician Union or the People's Party. We are in a municipal term governed by old people – well, I don't know – their partners, that is, by former charges of the Galician Nationalist Block, where they have problems with the dining rooms I think they are much worse than those we have. You know what's going on in Compostela with the school dining rooms. By the way, the company that the Town Hall was proposing to provide the service was the company we had to cancel the termination. Which, of course, tries to say that this party or this government acts – as you say – of bad faith, etc., because it will have to apply the story to its former government partners, because they are the same companies we talk about. And, of course, you're talking about companies from outside, curious. City of Pontevedra, catering service...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u287	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u288	...diners managed by the ANPA Federation and the Town Hall. Do you know where the company you criticized is and how you know you're providing a service in Pontevedra? It's Serunion, which is from Barcelona. So how can it be then that in Pontevedra city lend service to a Catalan company? Well, if it were from Malaga, because it would be really bad, wouldn't it, but it's Catalan, because maybe it's not so bad. Anyway, Mr. Pombo, I'll tell you what if we're guilty...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u289	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u290	...that if he is guilty of this government. Look, this government is guilty of increasing in times of crisis over 12,000 dining places. This government is also guilty of launching a system of coke – yes, of the service much more socially just than its own, much more socially just than its own, where 80% are free users and is dependent on income, so that Pablo Isla's son, who has greater economic capacity than the son of a unemployed person, has to contribute more to the public service.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u291	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u292	It's also guilty of having controls and being responsible.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u293	Thank you, Counselor. Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u294	And he's also responsible, according to his theory...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u295	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u296	...to allow the ANPA...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u297	You're done now, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u298	...and the municipalities do some services that you think they're so irresponsible. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u299	Thank you, Counselor. Replica. Mr. Pombo. [[Murmurs.]] Quiet, please. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Quiet, please. Let Mr. Pombo speak. [[Murmurs.]] Quiet, please. Let Mr. Pombo speak. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Quiet. You calm down, until this calms down, you don't start. It's okay, it's okay, until I'm calm, you don't start. [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Quiet, please, so you can start Mr. Pombo. If you think it's appropriate. [[Mr. Pombo Rodríguez utters words that are not perceived.]] Start whenever you want, Mr. Pombo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u300	Thank you, Mr. President. I've come here to inquire about Mr. Counsellor of the Galician Board of Education. If you're interested in questioning Santiago's concierge – I don't know which – for me there's no problem, go there and interview him. [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Counselor, I'd like you not to divert the words of the BNG spokesman from this rostrum, eh! You say you're very attentive, they're at your fingertips – I'm glad – controlling everything that's wrong in some company. I've named two companies here, Counselor, two companies, and not because they're from Malaga, or because they bring Malaga's broth, eh! ANPA from a center of Greek. On September 7th, the Galician Union informed six centres that Col-Service began operating in this center. From the beginning of the course to the food is not being enough for the approximately 300 children in the dining room, they eat in two shifts, they can't wash their teeth, they can't wash their hands because they have to walk at full speed and there's nowhere to go. There are children with special diets who are not being properly cared for because they don't have the food they need, having to eat at home. Galician Union is this dining room, eh! The food comes cold and the two small ovens in the kitchen don't get enough to heat it in condition, sometimes melt the trays where it gets warmed. The food is coming in bad conditions; on September 28, it was already the maximum. The vase is dirty on many occasions. We've already brought up the company's complaints, the school, the center and the council, and we've announced legal actions. I'm not talking about companies from outside, I'm talking about companies that don't perform with 300 small ones that should attend to the board of Galicia, Counsellor; see if we don't get confused. For BNG, of course, it's not normal, it's not normal for catering services to be carried out and a thousand kilometers of food to be transported. Among other things, because we have to burn gas oil, and among other things because we think it might be more advantageous, instead of burning gas oil, giving better quality of food, than in Galicia there is, eh!, I already tell you, there is, and you are from the center, right?, there is good meat, there is good milk, but I don't know why there are other communities that put on the nail conditions or look for the way fresh nearby meals are served and the fish that is nearby, which isn't coming from far away, but it seems that the Council of the Board of the Board of Directors of Galicia doesn't have that interest. Of course, it doesn't seem normal to us. I know there are a few demands, Mr. Counsellor, that there are measures to ensure, and you have to have contrasted quality – set here –, sufficient quantity, presentation and acceptable quality. I would, in fact, change for fresh products, proximity products, healthy products, cooking products in the day, products that are near where the dining room is. I, of course, it's what I think, and I repeat it, not because I'm from Malaga, eh!, not because I'm from Malaga, that I've been there for quite a while and I have sympathy with those people, but for 2,75 euros/menu, the cheapest of all that is paid in the council, if I'm not mistaken, and for 2,80, to bring the food from there, that you have to pay for transport, to make the food, to put personal, you can't give quality food, Mr. Counsellor; you'll lay the bases, but you can't give it, because the companies wouldn't work that way; something fails. And for us, of course, the priority, Mr. Counsellor, in the school dining rooms – I told you at first – our model...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u301	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u302	...that of the Galego Nationalist Block, it would be to direct the dining rooms to direct management, because we could get jobs back, which I think in Galicia, we don't have to stay, even in rural areas, either. We could get quality back, and not because you put it on paper, that you have to give some talks that "talk about typical Galician products," but because it's fruit, because it's vegetables, because it's fish, because it's meat that's close to us, that you don't have to transport it, or that you have to transport it as little as possible. That's the model we're defending. And, therefore, for us, the first is quality assurance. We have nothing against those outside, nothing, absolutely nothing, but we think the best way to give better food is to be from around here, and there's a way to do it, because there's other communities that do it, curiously, I don't know why. So instead of talks related to Galician gastronomy, you're getting...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u303	Thank you very much, Mr. Pombo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u304	...–Finished, Madam President–...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u305	No, Mr. Pombo. In control you know that time is over and we're done. Finish the sentence, and that's it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u306	Counselor, is it because of the "caldo galego" model or are we going to have to keep eating from outside and plastic food?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u307	Thank you very much. The councillor for Culture, Education and Universitary Order, Mr. Román Rodríguez, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u308	Mr. Pigeon, don't you have any doubt that I, between the yellow broth and the food outside, want the yellow broth, eh!, don't you have the slightest doubt, do you? But look, look how easy it would be if we let ourselves be led by demagogy, by the ease of demagogy. The Town Hall of Santiago is here, I don't criticize him, at no time the critic. They have a problem and they have to solve it, as we have to do, as the Galician Union had to when it detected and certified the problem. You obvious a reality and you realize it's very easy to launch cheerful messages. It would normally be one thing to preach, even if it was secular, and another thing is to give wheat, and you can check, like governments, from the very beginning of the former members of the Galician Nationalist Block, what happens to them happens to them, and we don't criticize them at any time, because it would be very easy, we would enter a quite dangerous spiral. What if I can guarantee you – and I think you have leftover data – is that in the service you perform when you detect a breach, you act, and that's what a responsible government should do; when there is a breach, you have to act, and you've acted in this case. And look, in Galicia we have a good dining service, I would dare say that of Spain's best, no doubt, of Spain's best. The catering model that you here question in such a radical way, because look, he uses it to Galician Union, but he also used it in the Bipartite to Galician Union, schools and galescolas, and there he put a government in the Nationalist Block, which is not very well understood if that Nationalist Block isn't what you're defending right now. But so do the ANPAs. The ANPAs, which manage a large number of school dining rooms, also use the catering system. With all the questioning you throw at or try to launch at the Galician Council, its government and this party, you know that all the impropriate people who throw at the ANPAs and the municipalities, including the Pontevedra Town Hall, who the catering service lends you a company – as you say – from outside, a Barcelona company. So, well, you really don't understand. The truth is, when you say that BNG has its own model and that it's just a direct management dining room, I don't wonder if you go to the elections with another name, because no one understands it, no one understands it, you have to cover your name. Because here a spokesperson for the Nationalist Block says his model is one, but then, in the main county where you rule, they make another model, and above the mayor of that city goes to the electoral lists with another name so you don't know what the name is... that is, it's a mess, Mr. Pombo, it's a mess. It's no wonder they're finally being renamed because they really don't get it; these speeches are misunderstood. [[Applause]] Look, anyway...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u309	Mr. Fajardo, I'm listening.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u310	...I've told you before, Mr. Pombo: zero risk does not exist, neither in dining rooms nor in any public service, nor in our private life there is no zero risk. What we have to do is, when we detect an anomaly in service delivery or if we detect a failure to provide services by the concessionary company, we act, and we act. Are you in favour or not that the contract will be terminated? We don't know, you were questioning Serunion last year, which is the company that serves the menus in Pontevedra; well, it's a company in Barcelona, nothing happens. But, in any case, another question that I think it must also be very clear that the dining room is a service that is providing very important help to families and students, who have many – let's say – positive aspects (to learn to eat, a varied diet, etc.)), and that's all controlled by periodic inspections, it's all controlled by a guide that all service providers have to comply with, all have to comply with. And when you talk to us – and you also told us earlier and now – about the models of dining rooms and the service management system, I tell you one thing – we have discussed it many times –: what is more fair: that a person, than a child, by simply going to school on a bus, has a free service, or that he has it according to the income of his family? We understand that it's much more socially fair to take into account the variable income, because an administration has a role, if it's...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u311	Thank you very much, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u312	...the element that distributes the income, and you can do it via taxes, and you can do it, and you can also access the provision of services, and 80% of the Greek families have zero, zero, they are free user.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u313	Thank you very much, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u314	I'm saying that what you're going to do is increase the number of users, more than 12,000 in the last few years. With which, Mr. Pombo, I think we have a very good dining service and we must be proud of him.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u315	Counselor, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u316	Nothing more and thank you very much. [[Applause]] Mr José Luis Méndez Romeu and 17 other Members of the G.P. of the Galician Socialists, on the policy of the Galician Union on combating child abuse
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u317	You have the floor to appeal to Mrs Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u318	Thank you very much, Madam President. Today, 25 November, we commemorate the International Day against Gender Violence, and throughout the morning and even in the first intervention of the afternoon it was mentioned here by all spokesmen of the various parliamentary groups and even by the Government on this issue. She drew attention to Mrs. Oubina's intervention when she said it was a day to remember. I think remembering we have to remember every day of the year to make policies against macho violence, and today is of course a day to claim. In order to claim compliance with the laws, to claim compliance with the Greek Law of 2007, to claim compliance with the State Law of 2004, to claim that there are no cuts in equality policies and in the fight against ill-treatment. [[Applause]] To claim that the President of the Government of Galicia, who represents all of us here, ceases to defend a suspected bully and revitalize the victim, in the case of Mr Baltar in Ourense. That's what we have to claim here today, more than to remember. Remember, we have to remember every day. And today, Mr. Social Policy Counsellor, I was hoping that this inquiry would answer the responsible in the Greek Government in this matter, because we are going to talk about child abuse, but very linked to the violence against women, and the effects this violence causes on children and children, but you see that Mr. Rueda doesn't want to appear here on matters that have to occupy him and worry, he just wants to come when he can come and do a press conference from this rostrum. Look, Counsellor, in 2007 the State Children's Observatory published a reference module for "the development of a protocol of action in cases of child abuse" – so called – following the recommendations of the Committee on the Rights of Children. This module established a set of minimum technical proposals that would serve as a starting point for the elaboration by the autonomous communities of their own interinstitutional protocols. Today, in Galicia we don't have that protocol yet, and it becomes more and more necessary. The system we're working on is an absolute bunch of injustices that end up seriously affecting children and children, and on many occasions they end up defending themselves to follow their lives. The Single Log of Child Abuse that exists in the Galician Union would have to be useful for us to know about the reality of maltreatment in Galicia, but the lack of training of the and the professionals working in contact with minors about the different situations of abuse – we speak of abuse, sexual violence, we talk about abuse of violence by macho violence, we talk about abuse within families, we talk about abuse in public schools, because the different situations of abuse and the correct approach to them are a serious problem to know that it is actually happening in Galicia with child abuse, since the detected and reported cases are far from what is everyday reality. Training professionals in the first line – education, health, social services, security forces – would be useful to start to know reality and so that these professionals are able to detect situations of abuse and know what to do before them, know how they are obliged to notify when they suspect a situation of abuse, know that there are procedures to make these notifications and also know that they have the right to anonymity. What comes to us, to the Socialist Parliamentary Group, about what is happening, about the shortcomings in the system, is very worrying, and from there this interpellation, what it wants and what it is still trying to warn us, to be aware of what they are doing – I insist –, especially in coordination, something that is within the competence of Mr Rueda, absent today. Judges who do not pay attention to the reports of the workers and social workers of the Galician Union, the workers and social workers of their department, Counsellor, and allow the visit of parents convicted of macho violence against their children, despite the repeated complaints of mothers, who are not taken into account, claiming these judges the syndrome of parental alienation, another sexist invention; children and institutionalized children who repeatedly ask to go with their mothers and their mother's family and are denied, and remain at 13, 14, 15 years in an institution without being able to develop a project of life like the other children. Cases without conviction for a bad praxe in the listening of children or in the taking of a statement, years or too many months after the abuse occurs. Revitalization of children and girls due to lack of training of professionals who have to make a statement or judge the facts, to coincide with the batter during the process. Mr. Rueda – as we called for – was asked to put in place the means for the interviews to be held in the right places. So far, interviews are still being held in centres in poor conditions, in which on many occasions it coincides with the batterer. Or also the bad conditions in which the guarded visit is carried out, centres that should be public in a deplorable condition. Mothers convicted of holding their children when Justice doesn't listen to them and children and girls please don't come back with the abuser. He was talking in the media in Spain about a case of a woman from Jaén to whom Mr. Rajoy's government gives him a prize today. And precisely this woman is hoping that she will be granted a pardon for a judicial conviction she has to refuse to return her children to her husband, surely saving their lives for this action. Well, he's given a prize, but, on the other hand, he hasn't yet been given the pardon to which he has the right. But we don't have to go to Andalusia to find out about these cases, Counselor, we have them in Galicia. Here too, we have cases of children assaulted by their parents who keep their custody and mothers convicted by the judges because they don't want to hand the children over to those parents to avoid a more than safe death. The Galega Against Abuse to Minors Association – since today we are accompanied by its representatives – has already presented a number of proposals before the Government of Galicia to develop this protocol so necessary that we, of course, consider it absolutely appropriate. A protocol guaranteeing the scientific character of all measures and actions to be carried out, the prioritising of the best interests of the child, the specialisation of professionals and professionals, the multisectoral coordination, equal opportunities, Counsellor, the attention to all children and children under child abuse and not only those in a state of unemployment – which is what we have today – the public character of services and the mandatory nature of what is established in the protocol for all the administrations involved. Without that tool, what we have today is a deep disunity between the departments of the Galician Union that work with minors, and between these and the Prosecutor's Office, the judges and the municipalities. I'm going to give you some examples. Sergas has saturated the mental health units infant-juvenile of the cities, too many people to care for with very few professionals. Children who have suffered or suffer chronically ill-treatment need therapeutic support and health care for all of them is not guaranteed today. With all the budget cuts and also skills, most of the municipalities do not count on their basic social services with specific child care services, to inform and address in a specific and qualified way situations of ill-treatment and offer the most appropriate care, information to families and a work that is paramount to children and children. There are no judgments specialized in violence against children, criminal or civilian, which makes it much more difficult to find professionals trained to deal with these cases. Nor in the office of counsel there is such a specialization that it would be desirable to treat child abuse, so that children and children are not revitalized. The Galician Institute of Legal Medicine doesn't have forensic teams specialized in forensic evaluation of minors and there's no psychology guard services. With which, when a case is presented, the first interview – often the most valuable one – is conducted by a professional who does not receive the minimum training to perform a structured intervention. Actually...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u319	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u320	...the situations of severe ill-treatment are due to reference hospitals, where a forensic doctor from the Imelga is sent in charge of all kinds of interventions: gathering biological samples, physical evaluation, genital exploration, interview... this is completely incorrect. Just remember as an example, adult victims of sexual violence are exploited by specialists in xenophobia. It's very serious what's going on, Counselor. That's why the Socialist Group presented this appeal, to alert, to raise awareness, so that the German Government realizes that there is an important work to be done, that until today's not done. Therefore, we asked you if you have any cooperation agreement or other coordination formula with the Prosecutor's Office and Justice to avoid giving your children to abusive parents, if Justice communicates to the Greek Government all cases of violence or domestic violence in which there are minors, and with which specialized teams, units, centers, count the Government of Greece for the prevention of child abuse and for the protection of abused minors...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u321	Thank you very much, Mrs Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u322	...and with what economic resources...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u323	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u324	...and, above all, what is the government's relationship with the municipalities in this area. I hope, Counselor...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u325	Thank you very much, Mrs Gallego. Time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u326	...that, despite the fact that Mr. Rueda is not here, you are in solidarity with the whole...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u327	Thank you very much. Mr. José Manuel Rey Varela has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u328	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen. It's actually an interrogation about child abuse. I mean, Mrs Gallego, that the competences are attributed to the Social Policy Council, I would advise you that you unfortunately have more than a thousand children's deprotection files, of which those motivated by suspicions of physical abuse are a small percentage of the total, exactly 8%. [[Murmurs.]] I thought this inquiry was not for November 25 – which could be – but for November 20, which is the International Day of the Rights of the Child, and which I think therefore has much to do with the interpellation that brings to this Parliament. They currently have a protection file of 3,760 minors in Galicia, of which 1,464 are under public custody and 405 young people are running some judicial action. In view of this reality, public authorities have been entrusted with actions to protect the family legally, socially and economically, and in particular children and adolescents. Child care has fortunately improved in recent decades. Conscious of the need to improve inter-agency coordination mechanisms in the prevention and care of child abuse within the framework of the Children's Observatory, a basic protocol on intervention against child abuse was developed, which was adopted by the plenary session of the Children's Observatory on 22 November 2007, in order to ensure the application throughout the Spanish territory of the rights recognized in the Convention on the Rights of the Child, as well as to promote comprehensive and inter-agency action protocols against child abuse in each autonomous community. This protocol needed an update derived from the new social needs detected and the reported deficiencies. In particular, it was essential to include in it the minors exposed to gender-based violence. It was therefore considered convenient, together with the Government's Delegation for Gender Violence, to introduce some elements that contemplate their development in this particular situation of attention to the children of women who suffer this kind of violence. Similarly, it should be borne in mind that violence against children refers to a wide range of modalities and circumstances that may arise in different contexts and with the involvement of various agents, including the possibility of an inadequate institutional response. Based on the definition of violence against children offered by the United Nations, this update of the protocol focuses solely on the family context, and incorporates the consideration of minors as victims of violence in the context. This emphasis on the within-family dimension is reflected in the title of the protocol and is referred to throughout the text as child abuse in the family. In this way, it is intended to differentiate between this concrete form of violence and against children and others. The result of this update is the adoption of the basic protocol for intervention against child abuse in the domestic field, carried out by the Plenary of the Children's Observatory on 9 June 2014. This updated protocol should be complementary to the sectoral protocols in each professional area involved in the detection, notification and intervention of child abuse applied in each autonomous community. In this case, Galicia, in the Welsh Strategy for Children and Adolescents 2016-2020, action 4.4.3 of the Strategic Line 4, has planned the elaboration of the protocol of what you are talking about, an autonomous protocol in development of the basic intervention protocol that exists at this time developed by the Children's Observatory and developed by the Basic Protocol of June 9, 2014. In the Autonomous Community of Galicia there is a protocol for action in sexual abuse of minors agreed between different bodies competent in the field of children, namely the Council of Galicia, the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia, the People's Valedor and the Government's Delegation in Galicia. The existence of sexual abuse of minors constitutes a problem of serious and profound psychological, social, legal and medical consequences. Its extreme complexity requires a multidisciplinary approach, in addition to a high degree of coordination, to achieve maximum effectiveness in protecting children. The need to provide children with the means for their balanced and harmonic development demands from the child protection services the adoption of coordinated and interdisciplinary modes of intervention in health, education, social, judicial and police systems. This protocol is a coordinating tool for a series of actions organized in a dynamic and open workflow that starts with the knowledge of the case and closes when it can be guaranteed its protection in a stable way. This Protocol therefore lays down the coordinated procedure for action on child sexual abuse by all the bodies concerned. The Prosecutor's Office and the Court of Justice shall inform the child protection services of those cases in which it is deemed that, by this or other circumstances, a minor may be in a situation of deprotection, in order to ensure that professionals in the area of minors value the situation and determine, where appropriate, the protection measures to be applied. Similarly, juvenile protection services provide information on all protection measures taken in favour of minors to the corresponding prosecutorial offices, which are responsible for their superior monitoring. Therefore, the collaboration between prosecutors and child protection services can tell you – according to the technical data available – that it is permanent, automatic and effective, without a specific agreement, as you are asking. With regard to cases of domestic violence or domestic violence in children, the reform carried out in the system of protection for children and adolescence by Organic Law 8/2015 of 22 July 2015 and Law 26/2015 of 28 July 2015 reinforces the protection of minors against gender-based violence and sexual abuse as well as ill-treatment. In this way, public authorities' action to prevent situations of ill-treatment and violence in all areas generally becomes a priority of their field of action. Thus, in the face of gender-based violence, minors are considered direct victims because of their inclusion as such in article 1 of the Gender Violence Act of 2004. Another of the transcendental aspects of the new legislation is the promotion of children's stay with their mothers. In this line, the courts are bound by the obligation to impose precautionary measures for the protection of the child, when the prosecutor's office or the mother's representation was previously carried out. It also urges judges to pronounce themselves on the prohibition of approximation or suspension of the country's authority, custody or suspension of the scheme of visits, stay or communication of the father charged with the minor. If you do not choose that suspension, the judge will have to determine precisely how it develops. With regard to the specialized teams, units, centres with which the Government of Greece counts for the exercise of the competence of child protection – which, as I told you, corresponds to the Council of Social Policy – the Council of Galicia has the technical equipment of the minor. And we have located in the territorial heads of the four provinces and formed by professionals – pedagogical, psychologist, social worker, educator and legal adviser – with sufficient training and training. They are responsible for the evaluation and intervention of all cases where minors may find themselves in any situation of deprotection, both of serious risk and of helplessness. It is up to these teams to propose protection, guardianship or guardianship measures, as well as to manage the programmes and to seek to suit the needs of children with existing resources to deal with this situation. On the economic allocation, the economic resources devoted to the Galician Union, the allocation for child protection programmes amounts to EUR 26 million, EUR 1,464,647 more in 2016 than in 2015. And what is the relationship between the German Government and the municipalities in this area? For collaboration, like everything related to welfare services, must be a maximum of detection in the case of municipalities and accompaniment in the case of self-government. It will be necessary to issue an administrative resolution, a requirement which is not necessary if the family cooperates with social services...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u329	Thank you very much, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u330	...in improving socio-laborative conditions. In this case it will be necessary to open a new coordination line between local administration and autonomy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u331	Mrs Gallego Calvar's reply to the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u332	Thank you, President. Counselor, if everything was so good, you wouldn't be thinking about doing the protocol, which we considered necessary since 2007. We're in 2015 and we're going to 2016 and that strategy we don't know 2014-2020 is still undeveloped and the protocol isn't done. Look, administration professionals, their advisors, who have skills in minors. Of course you compete in minors, but who coordinates? Who has the competences about the Imelga? Who has the powers in matters of justice? Who has the skills to talk to the prosecutor's office? You got it? No, no, no, no. You have Mr. Rueda, right? Well, that's why I told him. Professionals of his counseling. Don't listen to me if you don't want to, though you know it's true, that every time I tell you something, then you check it out, right? The complaints we make here. The Valator of the People's Opinion on the training of juvenile and family teams, of his advice: "Without questioning the dedication or sensitivity of these workers, we believe that the technical teams of minors should conform to criteria other than those of the general provision of jobs for the employees of the Administration, since their task is qualitatively much more important, and there should be differentiated selection mechanisms for the provision of these jobs where the prior experience in the work of minors, highly specialized training and a marked professional vocation in this area, favouring the stability of these teams without diminishing the appropriate internal promotion systems." This is what the People's Valedor thinks about the juvenile teams. I don't take credit for these professionals, I'm not saying they're not good professionals; what I'm saying is that they haven't – because they haven't been given since the Administration, which is the one who has the obligation to do so – the right training to treat children and children in the face of abuse. Because from the first approach, from the first interview, from how it is done, from where it is done, from whether it is crossed or not with the batterer, it depends – you should know – in many cases the success of that complaint, or whether that child or that child feels revitalized, or whether that child or that child simply does not take his complaint into account. This is about training. And this is true not only for the teams of his counsel, it is also valid for the judges, for the lawyers, for the prosecutor's office, for the schools, Mr. Counsellor, for those who have to detect cases of ill-treatment, for those who have to be alert to cases of ill-treatment that may go unnoticed to inexperienced eyes. For everyone, this request for specialized training is valid, and in no case is being given so far to the Public Administration of Galicia. And look, you have two collaboration agreements with two Greek universities, Santiago and Vigo, for forensic practice and more for mediation, which you should – the Council of the Socialist Parliamentary Group – tear. Because these two agreements that you have with these two universities, these jobs are doing us two professionals who have as their main foundation in the face of cases of child abuse the parental alienation syndrome, something that is not in any case scientifically proven. It's true that lately they don't want to call it parental alienation syndrome, they call it parental interference, malicious mother's syndrome or kind progenitor theory. In Paladino Romanian, in Paladino Romanian, that when a mother complains that what was her batterer mistreats her children, in some places – unfortunately, in many places – she is not heeded by that mother because it is said that she is eating the children and the children to whom they report ill-treatment when she does not exist. This is what you, in pale Roman, call it fine parental alienation syndrome. Well, this is happening, Counselor, and you have the Galician board of two conventions signed with these universities for forensic practice and mediation. Do you think this is a good time in the public administration? Or are you also defenders of parental alienation syndrome? You should promote scientific knowledge to unblock these theories and encourage research into other pathways of study in the issue of forensic evaluation and scientific debate so that this non-existent scientific-based movement will fade away. That should be your commitment. As your commitment, Counsellor, it should be that the functioning of juvenile centres is no longer so isolated from the outside. In the next question, we're going to talk about this, so much so that inner children don't keep in touch with the equipment that usually treated them, which were their reference elements outside the center. In addition, it is necessary that these children and inner children have access to certain information in order to know how to communicate relevant facts within the centre or with some institution, which are entitled to complaints, complaints, information about their files, legal limits of practices within the centre, right to visits, right to request emancipation.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u333	Thank you very much, Mrs Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u334	None of these things are achieved, Counselor. But if with this interpellation today we can alert the German Government to the situation in which thousands of abused children live...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u335	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u336	...in our country, since the Socialist Group, of course, we are pleased. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u337	Mr. José Manuel Rey Varela has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u338	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Galician Union will strengthen the attention of minors in situations of de-protection in execution of judicial measures or detention, with more resources being devoted to interventions aimed at preventing and protecting situations of ill-treatment or de-protection, such as the Family Intervention Programme. As I said in my first speech, currently 3,760 minors have protective records in Galicia; it fully justifies the presentation of this inquiry. Of these 3,760, 1,400 are under public custody and 405 are running some judicial action. For the Greek Government, it is a priority to pay full attention to all children and, in particular – as it cannot be otherwise – to children who suffer from a situation of deprotection or social conflict. As you know, the Social Policy Council has four centres managed by its own means: the Arenal Design, Monteledo and Montefiz – in Ourense – and Avelino Montero – in Pontevedra – and 70 others whose management is coordinated with social initiative entities, which account for a total of 1,185 squares. The Family Intervention Programme, which caters annually for 200 families and 365 minors, with a budget share that increases by 10% over the previous year, up to 418,000 euros, allows for educational, family, therapeutic and care intervention in the family nuclei with a double objective: reaching the family integration of minors who were separated from their families because they were in a state of deprotection and avoiding family separation and the foreseeable hospitalization of minors who offer evident risk indicators of deprotection. Even so, the Programme of Evaluation and Treatment is renewed, integrating its contents of more than €137,000, from the 120,000 years 2012 to 2014. They are 321 minors who benefit from the socio-educational programs of the council, which have a cost of 161,000 euros. I'd like to do special fencapé in the mentor program. The latter focuses on four lines of action aimed at minors between 16 and 21 years of age: training, social inclusion, education and personal development. Investment in this programme, considered to be good practice in Europe and which is co-financed by the European Social Fund, is EUR 1.7 million per year. In 2015, 476 boys and girls were granted employment contracts, of which 149 were signed. Another resource for children at risk of deprotection is the family meeting points, which aim to promote relationships between them and their families when in a situation of separation, divorce or other alleged interruption of family coexistence, the exercise of the right of visits is interrupted or is difficult. In 2004, the network of the seven centres attended a total of 992 cases, conducting 27,500 exchanges, 3,000 guarded visits and 4,000 supervised visits. [[The Coruña, Ferrol, Santiago, Lugo, Pontevedra, Vigo and Ourense]] Of the total of 992 files, 286 are for gender-based violence. Each year they open up to specialized child protection services in Galicia more than 1,000 children's deprotection files, of which the ones motivated by suspicion of physical abuse are 8%. Thus, among the detection resources of possible deprotection cases are the minor's technical equipment, the children's telephone line, which is free, works all year round 24 hours a day and during last year answered 1,275 calls; and the Unified Registry of Child Abuse – the RUMI –, a notification device available to professionals in the educational and police field. We must also report the reception measures, detailing that over the course of this year a total of 1,022 minors have been accommodated, an increasing figure, which we hope will increase in the coming years. Besides, 87%, a total...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u339	Finish up, Counselor, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u340	...of 891 children and girls, they lived with their extended families – grandparents, uncles and brothers – and the remaining 13% were accommodated by distant families...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u341	Thank you very much, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u342	...when there is no kinship. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] We continue with the development of the agenda, with point 8, which is that of questions to the Government. Question by Da María Carmen Gallego Calvar and two other Members of the G.P. of the Galician Socialists, on the impact of the cuts in the selection procedures of non-profit private entities for the management of juvenile care centres affected by judicial measures
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u343	Mrs. Gallego has the floor to ask her question.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u344	Thank you, President. Counselor, apples I bring. You answered my question before I asked him the question I had planned to ask him right now. I appreciate the reply in advance, but I'm telling you I'm not satisfied, because you didn't get into the bottom of the matter. That reading you gave that document there now was the same thing your CEO did in Commission 5 last week. Anyway, let's get to the point. Now if we're going to talk about the 405 minors with judicial measures, Counsellor, now. We used to talk about child abuse and why you didn't put a protocol in place. Now we're going to talk about these minors in courthouses and how these centers are managed. As you said, there are four centers, but I'm going to refer to three of them: the Arenal Conception, the Coruña; the CIEMA, the Coruña; and the Monteledo, the Ourense, the centers in which the management contract with the non-profit social initiative entity was completed on December 31, 14, which you took until June this year to take out the contest the management of these centers and that this contest remained deserted. Let's talk about that contest that was deserted and why that contest was deserted. And I hope, Counselor, that you – also anticipating your answer – will be able to compromise three things here today. The first one, who's gonna take the contest again, since we're now with extensions, and who's going to take it out soon. The second is that this competition will be brought out with greater economic content, because if it won't be deserted again – I announce it to you. And the third, that you will guarantee the jobs of all the men and women who work in these centers today and will not eliminate some of them, as it appears in the nail of technical characteristics. Look, you'll have to explain, Counsellor, why there's a drop in the offer for these centres, 17% for boarding centers and 19% for middle-level centres, however, asking for more staff. You will have, Mr Counsellor, to tell us here today how it is possible that in 2011 the Arenal Design Centre had a price per square and day of 210 euros and now the offer that comes out of Galicia has a price per square and day of 180.88 euros, when – I insist – the non-profit social initiative entity that puts the most personal; i.e., you have to put more staff with less economic resources now than in 2011. You will return to the price for the square of the year 2002, of Mrs. Besteiro's decree when she was a family councillor, no less, Mr. Counsellor! The truth is that one out of two, or you've so far been wasting public resources and paying over what should be done to non-profit social initiative entities that managed these centers, or now literally what they want to do...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u345	Thank you very much, Mrs Gallego. The Social Policy Counsellor, Mr. King Varela, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u346	Thank you very much, President. The Greek Government must ensure the attention and quality of minors who must comply with judicial measures by the commission of criminal acts. As a result of the completion of the duration of the contracts, at the beginning of 2014, a study of the necessary resources and its costs was carried out: current and operating costs of equipment, personnel, safety and child care costs. For admission, the calculations were made on all currently authorised squares. In the open environment, a restructuring of resources has taken place at the autonomous level, based on the evolution of the number of judicial measures carried out annually in each province and its population between 14 and 18 years old, increasing staff in 3 provinces to provide all similar means: a psychologist and a social worker in the provinces of Lugo, Ourense and Pontevedra. The result of the study determined the need to increase the budget for the execution of measures of open medium – the studies carried out by the board – and to reduce the need for the execution of judicial measures of detention. I say that as a result of the studies conducted at the council. But by answering the three questions I have raised in the plenary – it is true that there is one in writing – if we are going to remove it, we are actually going to remove it because it is essential that all the agreements go out of the contest. The counties. We'll review, if necessary, the counties, because some of the centers, not all of them, presented very important differences between provinces and others, so we have to study it before we take it out of the competition. Because others, as a result of this competition, have been sued. And on the issue of eliminating posts, look, there's an obligation through agreements, so there's an obligation to subrogation. So calm to the staff who are providing these services. If these staff were properly hired at the time of the service's commencement, they must be required to include in the terms of the new tender. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u347	Thank you very much, Counselor. Mrs Gallego Calvar's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u348	Thank you, President. At least you here today have committed something more than your CEO in the Commission. Look, I know you have a study. Badly done, Counselor, and I explain very simply why. The study is wrong because in the public centre that you have in the province of Pontevedra the price per square put for this contest in 199 euros; however, for the centers that manage this social initiative entity, in 180.88. I'm talking about this case of boarding centers all of them, so it's logical to think that the price per square is at least the same, if not, it's even more expensive to outsource than to do from the administration itself. But what is rare is that the management of the public centre has a price per square and the management of an outsourced centre has a much lower price per square, when in addition – I insist – in this resolution to take this contest, to manage these squares, if specifically asked to this entity of social initiative, and to those who could introduce themselves, who increase staff. People who, by the way, are restless; not because they happen to be restless, but because simply, in that resolution, some people who don't have a certain degree are eliminated, so that's why they're worried. There are not many workers, and as they are present here today, in the debate of this initiative, I will thank you, Counselor, who will then speak to them and reassure you directly, that so sure they trust you better. In any case, Counsellor, it is impossible for a social initiative entity to manage the centres with a price per square that has been revalued, and is currently EUR 217 per day for the revaluation since 2011, today it can go to an invitation from the Administration to reduce it to 180.88. But neither for those who were already managing it, who was a Social Walk, nor for those who could see here an opportunity to...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u349	Thank you very much, Mrs Gallego. Thank you very much. Time's up. Replica from the Government. Mr. José Manuel Rey Varela has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u350	Thank you very much. As I said, those positions that exist in accordance with the contract that is in force. Because it is true that the deadline was over, it was lawful, and in the case of some – all of them had different prices – the new one was not brought to trial and is still in force. There is one staff who has rights, therefore, the counsellor's intention is to maintain this staff, regardless of a few minor issues. It's a technical matter, and to me, of course, it doesn't offer me enough solvency to care about staff who's been working with a degree for years and can now establish another one, but you know how things are sometimes between professional schools, it's not a matter of lighting it here. The theme of the counties. Let's try to make the counties similar among all the centers. There was a great disproportion. There were different application agreements and we must try to solve them. Of course, I want to convey to you the Government's intention to remove it, so that you'll all be tortured and that no one has to fear for the loss of his job. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u351	Thank you very much, Counselor. Question from Da María do Carme Adán Villamarín and two other MPs from G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the actions planned by the Government of Greece for the maintenance of the jobs of Dalphimetal España, S.A., based in Vigo
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u352	You have the word of Mrs. Adam to ask his question.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u353	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Counselor. We have the representatives of Dalphimetal workers here because today we are going to ask you a question about the auxiliary automotive sector. A few days ago you were traveling by car accompanying Mr. Feijóo, or Mr. Feijóo following you, or you were just accompanying Citroën, on the way from Madrid. By the way, it looks like it's the only road you know. For in that way you may have forgotten to know what is the situation of the automotive cluster, of the companies that make it up, and in particular of Dalphimetal, that. As you know, at this moment, a dismissal of 28 workers, according to the company for objective causes and production, when the reality is that production is delocalized, is being produced in Portugal and the workers are being fired. We have no more than 700 workers in this company in 2005, now barely shut down the company to produce in Portugal. So, in view of the data from the automobile, which has been lost from 2009 to 2015 in Galicia, about 20% of the jobs according to the data from the membership to Social Security, Counselor, and before the redundancies of Dalphimetal, which you announced in 2013 exactly measures so that the automotive cluster wouldn't allow the relocation, we want to ask you two questions. First of all, what actions did the Government take so Dalphimetal workers wouldn't be fired. And what are the actions you're going to take so companies that make up the automotive cluster, which also receive public aid, do not relocate production, and therefore do not continue to fire the workers and workers. It's a very clear example of what happens with Dalphimetal. A family company founded in 1977, which has 700 workers and workers, is now about to close and with the production completely delocalized. All right, I have nothing to think about is that you're at smart costs, as in your moment I remember that the cars were also those electric cars, that production was quite scarce for the public investment that was made. But real production, production with the workers and workers who every day depend on the wages of the automobile, requires more than the photos with Citroën, requires real actions so that production does not shift. That's why you don't answer both us and the automotive workers, what is the Government going to do to prevent the relocation of auxiliary automotive companies? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u354	Thank you very much, Mrs. Adam. The Councillor for Economics, Employment and Industry, Fr. Francisco José Conde López, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u355	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mrs. Adam, I'm sorry once again that you want to bring to this House a partial view of the situation in the automotive sector. It seems you and your group have not yet been aware that, indeed, Citroën has decided to assign to Vigo's factory the construction of the new van and, therefore, consolidate the automotive sector over the next ten years thanks to a production of over 200,000 vehicles a year. I deeply regret – I insist – that you wish to bring here an absolutely partial vision.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u356	Excuse me a moment, Counselor. I pray to the audience of the rostrum that please remain silent, if not, I'll have to tell them to leave the rostrum and I don't want to. So listen quietly, please. The rostrum is to listen, please. If they don't listen, they'll have to leave. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I'm not going to argue with you. Please, please be quiet. Go on, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u357	But I don't hide it either, Your Honor, that I'm curious how I would face being asked today after last Friday, only five days after the strike call, if this strike was convoked, who knows it perfectly and also hides it from this House. The BNG, Your Honor, recorded this question for the emergency procedure, the next day of the strike call, with the only objective, once again, of bringing to this House an opportunistic approach, which is what you usually do with this Government's industrial policy. He intended to do it on other occasions, this is not the first. He did it with Pescanova, he wanted it done with CELSA Atlantic, he wanted it done with Vestas, and always trying to take opportunistic advantage of a difficult situation for these companies. But the truth is, in all these cases, they never came to this Parliament to make a positive assessment when the agreements were reached and solutions were found. I therefore regret once again that you use this Parliament in an absolutely opportunistic way. Just as I greatly regret your lack of knowledge of the situation in the automotive sector, which, as you know, this Government has been accompanying for many years, supporting the sector, Citroën and the auxiliary industry. We are supporting it with new investments to gain competitiveness – because that is the key, to gain competitiveness – through innovation, with the active involvement of the CTAG as well. I'm sorry you don't want to admit that Galicia is at the forefront, even with the development of the autonomous car. We are undermining, Your Honor, the industrial soil so that, in fact, there are incentives for entrepreneurs to invest here in Galicia. And of course, we're working with diversification strategies. A permanent work, Your Honor, that we have developed with the collaboration of the automotive cluster, with Ceaga, with our own auxiliary industries, with PSA-Citroën and with other builders. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u358	Thank you very much. Mrs. Adán Villamarín's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u359	Mr Counsellor, with all due respect, the opposition groups and this parliamentary group will bring to this House the problems they consider necessary, and you will not tell us here what is opportunistic and what is not. [[Applause]] It is the duty of the Government – I don't know if you know – by the Rules of Procedure of this House to answer the questions asked from the opposition groups. We have the right to register an urgent question, and we record the question we consider urgent. You think people are stone, but when people have a job, when a person has a job, and you lose it, and you're listening to it, at least with respect to these people should answer something about the automotive sector, don't come to tell us here about the theme of the Citroën van, which has already been sold for active and passive, Counsellor. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] The question is very clear, what actions does the Government develop so that the auxiliary companies of the automobile, and in particular Dalphimetal, do not relocate their production? Because competitiveness – the word you use – is not synonymous with relocation, it is not synonymous, and you are using it as synonym. Competition means, in any case, having a better offer, not looking for much cheaper wages in Portugal or Morocco. So what actions do you have in relation to the cluster of automobiles, the lines of subsidy you have or the actions that are proposed in the future so as not to shift that production or penalize those companies that relocate that production? That's what we're asking him, is it true or not that 20 percent of the jobs in the automobile have been lost? That's official data according to Social Security. So, Counsellor – straight – and with respect not to this parliamentary group or this House, but to the workers and workers who are listening to it today, what actions has the Government done or are you planning to do in the future so that no more jobs are lost because the production is being relocated?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u360	Thank you very much, Mrs. Adam. [[Mrs. Adam Villamarín speaks words that are not perceived.]] [[Applause]] The Councillor for Economics, Employment and Industry, Fr. Francisco José Conde, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u361	Your Honor, you can logically, as a parliamentary group, ask all the questions you consider and we, logically, answer them. Which doesn't mean that this approach, in this case, is clearly opportunistic, which is the only thing I've ever wanted to move. In any case, it shows once again that you want to hide the reality of the automotive sector simply because it is irrelevant that Citroën helped the K9 van at Vigo factory. And that, therefore... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u362	Excuse me a moment, Counselor. Excuse me, just a moment. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I pray to the House services that, please, I dismiss the guest who is not listening to the counselor's question. The gentleman I was talking about. Please do it! No, the gentleman who just spoke. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Please be quiet, if I don't have to evict. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] All right, I'm evicted, please... I'm evicted, please! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I pray the services of the House......to evict the guest gallery. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Please do it! [[Applause]] Please! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I pray the services that remove the rostrum, please. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Please do it! [[Mrs. Prado Cores speaks words that are not perceived.]] I asked for no opinion, Mrs. Prado. Please do it! Counselor, you have the use of the word.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u363	All right, thank you very much, Madam President. I continue to insist that, indeed, the adjudication of K9 is the great opportunity the automotive sector has here in Galicia, not only for the manufacture of the K9 van itself in Vigo factory, but logically, for the impact this van will have on the auxiliary industry, which will be able to maintain its position in the future. As you know, Galicia has very competitive companies in the automotive sector, companies that together with its thousands of workers are aware of the competition of low cost countries and that are also creating jobs. Because they know as much as this government does that our path is indeed the path of innovation; therefore, to place the automotive sector at international vanguard is what we are doing working with both Citroën and his auxiliary industry. We therefore have a first-level ecosystem, with a diversification strategy that is shared in third-party production of auxiliary industries: 33% in Citroën, 33% in other brands in Spain and 33% in exports. I remind you that 83% of these companies export to markets such as France, the United Kingdom, the United States, China, Italy, Brazil or Hungary. And that exports actually increased by 10% to EUR 1,100 million. This is, Your Honor, the reality of the automotive sector here in Galicia, which is proving to be competitive, that the factory has shown that it actually has the capacity to assign projects competing with other Citroën-owned factories in Low Cost countries, and that, as you know, contracts are already being assigned from that K9 van to the German auxiliary industry, and they are close to EUR 400 million – EUR 370 million – the contracts that have already been assigned by the German auxiliary industries to develop and participate in the construction of this project. We are therefore faced with a strategic sector for Galicia, a sector that logically works for its future, and this government, of course, will be on its side, next to the automotive sector, to implement all the actions that are necessary. Mrs. Adam, I think today you've missed a real opportunity to recognize that the area of the German automobile is making history of the different projects, and the only recognition you receive for your part is criticism. I'm very sorry, because it's not the reality of the automotive industry. [[Murmurs.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u364	Thank you very much. Question by Mr José Manuel Beiras Torrado and six other Members of the G.P. of the Galga de Left Alternative, on the integral action that will promote the Galician Union to reverse the destruction of employment and the productive base of the primary productive sectors
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u365	Mr. Fajardo has the floor to ask his question.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u366	Good afternoon, Counselor. Our group today wants to ask a question about the causes and motives that lead the People's Party in Galicia to be the graveyard of our primary sectors. How is it possible that a country like ours, which should have as a fundamental element of its economy and, above all, as a generator of quality employment in the primary sectors, is in a lamentable situation today? In a situation caused by political decisions that have to do with their disability or simply their defense of another model, which is to end the primary sectors of Galicia. Today more than a month and a half ago, hundreds of Greek fishermen camp in front of the Union simply asking for capacity to be able to fish. At a time when there's an oath on our backs, it turns out these fishermen can't catch it because you were unable to defend your rights before the government of the state. Because it's a political decision, it's not a question in this case of more quota, but a division that you have sold in exchange for other nationalities of this country, of this state, to have more fishing capacity than our own. But if it wasn't enough for them to end our fishing sector – of course, a fishing sector that will be about to disappear if it goes ahead with that law that they intend to bring to this Parliament, which aims to defend fishing against wild fishing as an economic model for our rivers, and, of course, it will find with our opposition, as it is already facing the opposition of many of the fishing sectors of this country – if it was not enough for you to end up with our fishermen and our fishing fleets, it also wants to end with our livestock sector. And today, after two months of that historic agreement, it turns out that the only beneficiaries of that historic agreement are the distributors, the only ones who have made milk more expensive on the lines of sale, but it turns out that those who make milk, our owners, don't get that money. And we're still two years selling under the cost of production, and that's all the decisions of the People's Party and the politics of the People's Party that condemn two of our sectors that should be the most important in the country and of course the ones that have generated the most jobs. I can give you some data that is certainly chilly. Since you reached Galician Union in the fisheries sector, more than 3,500 jobs have been lost: there were 24,913 in 2009, there are 21,400 today. And in the livestock sector we're even worse, when you came to agriculture in this country there were 50,000 workers and today there are 34,000. So you've destroyed nearly 20,000 jobs in our primary sectors, that's your record, that's your management. Do you think any manager of a company that fires 20,000 people could sit on your company's board of directors quietly? I could do it if that was your goal. So you have to explain to me whether you're incapable or whether your goal was to drive our people out of the country and drive our people out of the sea. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u367	Thank you very much. The sea councillor, Mrs. Rosa Quintana Carballo, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u368	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Fajardo, of course the figures you handle, I don't know where they come from, but anyway, what I can tell you is that this government has been acting from minute one for our primary sector to be sustainable through the viability of its production. We've been promoting actions since 2009, because we knew about the harsh situation that was going through this sector when we got to the government. During the period 2005-2009 we lost 1,770 dairy farms per year, between 2005 and 2008 538 boats disappeared. So when you point out the promotion of measures to the future, you have to say that this government has had them in the past, it's got them in the present and it's going to have them in the future. That's the only way it's understood that the rate of adjustment of farms is at 70% and that of the ships leaving the fleet at 68%. In this line of work, too, data such as the best mexillon production since 2006, the recovery of sales on the far side, the growth of wine exports, the highest turnover in the monte-industry chain since 2008 or the exceptional increase in agricultural production and ecological aquaculture. But that line doesn't start or end in Galicia; just like Brussels and Madrid, there are indications and rules, there are demands and concerns. And in that relationship, we're working, basically betting on two lines: getting commercial improvements to our primary production and fitting the productive framework through proper, fair and realistic standards. We have a lot of work to do, we're doing it and we're doing it. It's a 4% increase in the EAFRD funds that we'll see going from 856 million euros to the stage before 890 million euros. We made progress in the percentage distribution of the FEMMP fund in the Spanish context, from 44% in the period 2007-2014 to 51% in this period 2014-2020. In rural areas we did our homework when we promoted a rural development programme in 2014 that a year and a half before this difficult situation and its demands for action had already raised more than EUR 500 million for the dairy sector, and we also managed to increase payments linked to this sector by 63%. At sea we have done our homework when it's been giving since 2009 a rise in the quotas of 13% in kilos and 55% in value. And also when we plan an operating program that makes nearly 500 million euros of public investment go fundamentally to artisanal fishing and mexillon cultivation, because more than 72% of aquaculture aids are for this crop. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u369	Thank you very much, Mrs. Quintana. Mr. Fajardo Recoso's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u370	Well, Counselor, the truth is, you have little shame.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u371	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u372	Can I not speak here in this Parliament? Don't worry, I'll have the president now.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u373	Mr. Fajardo, continue.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u374	I say you are a little ashamed because you speak of the success of the mexillary sector when, for example, they are not charged with the aid of 2013; or when, for example, you have been allowed, by the action of your advisor and of the members of the People's Party, which is a mexillon coming from Chad – which has no cost – or a mexillon coming from Chile is packaged in Galicia and if you can sell as Greeks, that is a merit from the People's Party! It can produce, but we'll end up selling mussel to feed salmon that will be produced in our creeks. So that's the situation in the Mexillon sector. But you tell me, in addition, that they are doing their best and that the situation is immeasurable, when the data are from the IGE: Agrarian sector affiliation, 50,000 in 2009; when theirs arrived today at 39,000. To be so exceptional and so good the situation, how do 11,000 people come out of that sector? And if it's so good at sea, how is it possible for 3,000 to be expelled, what have hundreds of fishermen camped in front of the Union, or that, for example, this weekend in Fistra, traditional fishermen have been claiming measures to solve their situation, which is of misery and hunger? From that they go fishing and they can't fish, first because sometimes they don't have quota, and other times because the situation of biomass is because of the policies that you allow in some industrial fishery that ends with the future of our coast and our productive sectors. So, what do you come to rock here, about the mexillary sector? I would like to see you discuss one day with the whole mexillary sector and you have been able to explain how you are condemning this sector to be a think-tank producer for aquaculture. That's what your law has, that's what we're going to be discussing with this Parliament in a few months, and I hope you tell the truth. Three visits were made this past year: Canada, Japan and Norway, to visit what? Multinational aquaculture, not for our production...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u375	Thank you very much, Mr. Fajardo. [[Mr. Fajardo Recouso pronounces words that are not perceived.]] [[Applause]] Thank you very much. Replica from the Sea Councilwoman, Mrs. Rosa Quintana.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u376	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Fajardo, the truth is, like all the truths that I say are like that trip to Japan, which I don't know who did it, but, of course, none of my advisors... is that all the truth you know about the mexillary sector? You see, the invoicing figure in the mexillary sector rose by 32% more than last year, by 32%! And we're not producing mussel to make mexillon think for anyone, we're producing mussel for human consumption, to can in our cans of conservation. [[Applause]] We're producing mussel for food, sir. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] And I don't know what you know about the industrial fishing we have here in Galicia. What is our industrial fishing, if we precisely complain that other countries of the European Union do industrial fishing for fishmeal, when we all do fishing for human consumption? Or do you want to tell the Coruña trawlers who do industrial fishing? Is it an industrial fishing that takes place with the coastline? You're here saying a lot of nonsense that you hear from some, but not with specific data. And I'd like you to tell me why they're tied up, why these gentlemen are camped in front of San Caetano, when they have the availability of 500 tons to go fishing and they didn't want to take advantage of them. That's the reality, Mr. Fajardo. [[Applause]] That's the reality! [[Murmurs.]] The reality is, when one gives them fishing opportunities and doesn't want to take advantage of them, what is it that you're looking for then? [[Applause]] What are you looking for? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u377	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u378	That the fish and seafood discharges of the year increased by 14,53 %...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u379	Mr. Fajardo!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u380	Let the fish discharges rise...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u381	Excuse me a moment.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u382	...–are published in the Technology Platform – which has increased the value of these discharges; that since 2009 we will increase fishing opportunities by 13%; that the value of these discharges will increase by 55%. This is what we're working on. Others are trying to mount noise in the sector, but that's why they don't go anywhere because the sector knows very well where some are taking it. The Galician Aquaculture Law is a law that has a dictatorship of all regions of the European Union; a ruling unanimously adopted, without one remark, without one criticism. We're looking for an aquaculture that produces food, as if we're trying to search all over the world, and we're the first to do it. And we defend the aquaculture of the mussel, of course; the aquaculture of the fish, yes. Someone was in charge of saying that the cultivation of salmon in the Muros creek would end up with shellfish in the Noia creek. They're going to ask the Maricadors of the Lady's River how they're producing this year. That's the truth! Others want to sink this sector, make a sector that is not attractive to Thursdays, but they have a government, the Government of the People's Party, which will continue to bet on these sectors as a source of employment for our Thursdays. [[Applause]] Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u383	Thank you very much, Counselor. Question by Mr Hippolito Farínas Sobrino and seven other Members of the G.P. People in Galicia, on the criteria followed to ensure quality in the provision of school dining services in their various modalities
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u384	Mr. Farinas has the floor to ask his question.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u385	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Councillor for Culture, Education and Universitary Order. Since this government arrived at the Galician Union it has been a priority objective of the council to work for the excellence of the Greek education system; to work for equity, equality and solidarity through excellence. The work was also profound in order to achieve quality complementary services; complementary services that made it possible, through the work of the entire board, to have the largest school transport network in Spain and also a network of dining rooms that provides a service suitable for quality needs in food that our schoolchildren need, our educators. This project is consolidated with dining rooms that provide, in contrast to what happened before, 80% – 79.9% – of free menus for our schoolchildren and 5.5% of school menus that pay only one euro for their menu. Ladies and gentlemen, we're talking about a fair system, a system of solidarity. And yes, it is true, Counselor, that – as you said here in the morning – Mr. Isla – if he sends his children to a public school with a public dining service – will have to pay for his son, he will have to pay. I hadn't paid before. They had exactly the right thing to do, as some illustrious Member of this House often said. [[Murmurs.]] They ate freely the children of the honourable Members and honourable Members who had the right to transport; they also had the dining room free of charge. Even though they were sons of millionaires or great directors and members of the board of directors, as mentioned here this morning. But I repeat, although it is the chance, ladies and gentlemen, that also the children of Members and Members were entitled to this free service. We have our model, Counselor, and we defend it, as we defend the impact of solidarity that is being represented within the education system of Galicia. [[Murmurs.]] We are concerned about the improvement of the system, and there was also concern, Counselor, when we had knowledge of some anomalies that came up in some dining room, on time, with some service from some menu. And after listening, after reading lots of different kinds of things about the criteria and the procedure of adjudication of that service, that's why we ask... [[Mr. Fajardo Recouso pronounces words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u386	Mr. Fajardo, second call to order.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u387	...on the criteria followed to ensure quality in the provision of the school dining service in its various modalities. Nothing else and thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u388	Thank you very much. The councillor for Culture, Education and Universitary Order, Mr. Román Rodríguez, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u389	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Flours, let's talk again about dining rooms in the plenary today. I repeat what I said a very short time ago. In Galicia we have, fortunately, one of the best dining services in Spain. I think it's something that we should be proud of as a country and I think it's something very positive. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] You tell us what management systems are and how quality can be guaranteed. I think it's also said, but don't keep repeating it. There are two types of management – direct management and indirect management – by the Galician Board, and there is also a management by the ANPA and the municipalities. These modalities are not new, they've been working for some time. I'm not from a political party, I'm not from this government specifically, but they've been like this for many years. As far as direct management is concerned, as you know, it's those centers that have their own kitchen. They cook in the center and feed the children on the basis of the staff that exists in these kitchens. Indirect management is with catering services. Food is prepared in kitchens outside the centers and transferred to these centers. There are two systems: the cold system and the hot system. Two different technical systems to carry the food. This is also done by ANPA and municipalities, without any kind of questioning on the part, in this case, of opposition groups. There's also a difference in quality between service and service. I believe that both the menus provided by direct management and the menus provided by indirect management are subject to the same quality controls. They are subject to a guide to healthy menus, where there are health requirements, health criteria, that meet everything that has to do with the type of food, rotation, calories, food typology, etc. And this healthy menu guide must be fulfilled. It's an essential requirement for the provision of a service that's underrated by Health, it's endorsed by the USC Pediatric Service, and, to a certain extent, it's the guarantee that our children's food will be provided in quality conditions. Obviously – we have said it and we must repeat it – zero risk does not exist. And in a service that provides 10 and a half million menus a year, which is providing almost over 70,000 menus a day, there is a risk that in any case there may be some difficulty or a poor provision of the service, and that's true. Now, what we shouldn't do is generate an unnecessary alarm, or make an issue that, not least, is a timely issue, a general alarm in the system, because we would be questioning the action of the ANPAs and we would also be questioning the action of the municipalities that provide this conciliation service. In any case, the most important thing is always to guarantee the quality of the menus, and when there's an anomaly...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u390	Thank you very much, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u391	...to act and take the relevant measures, as set out in this case.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u392	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u393	Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u394	Mr. Farinas' reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u395	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you very much, Counselor. On the side of the Popular Parliamentary Group you will continue to talk about opening more dining rooms, continuing to implement the quality and best service in these school dining rooms, also increasing the number of squares – as you have done so far – and continuing to work for equity, solidarity and justice within the school dining rooms. Also – if the case comes to pass, Counsellor – we do not doubt that the agility, efficiency and effectiveness with which you have acted in this timely case, with these companies and these menus, will again be the same in case they arise, and we do not want this to happen again. But what we don't want to talk about, Counsellor, is that the Prosecutor's Office opens up no criminal investigation in our dining rooms or in our educational system because Junta doesn't want to reopen the dining rooms that were closed earlier, as it happens in other communities. Or they leave companies and they don't want to provide the service because they have a course and a half that they have to pay. I would advise you not to grant direct management aid to school lunchers who have it in other communities. Nor can it be said here that the only criterion that prays when it comes to providing food services is economic, as is the case in other communities. Nor do we wish to hear, Mr. Counsellor, of any mayor – and less than one advisor – that there was direct consultation to prevent the provision of a service earned in a legally established adjudication by terms of terms. We want you to remain vigilant so that none of this will happen again, and we also want you to be at zero risk and work – now that the election campaign will begin – so that you will not rule again those who have made possible that Mr. Isla's son and ladies and gentlemen...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u396	Thank you very much, Mr. Fariñas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u397	...they will be able to go free...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u398	The councillor for Culture, Education and Universitary Order, Mr. Román Rodríguez, has the floor. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I thought I had given the word to the counselor. Then I'll tell you again because maybe you didn't listen. [[Murmurs.]] Counselor, you have the floor. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Counselor, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u399	Thank you very much, Madam President. Indeed, zero risk does not exist in this or any other service. And you can't guarantee that there's no problem, that there's no problem again. I'm sure any of us in our house can have a problem making a salad, sure. [[Murmurs.]] And this has to be taken into account, right? We have to take this into account. [[Murmurs.]] In any case, what's true is that in a service like what we're talking about, with a number of annual menus of 10.5 million, where Together, ANPA and also municipalities provide an indirect service through a catering service, I think that launching an excessive alarm is not positive for those parent associations, for those municipalities or for the Administration, who are doing their job. [[Murmurs.]] In any case, I think it has been found that when there is a problem it acts. It has been found that when there is a finding that there is a weakness in the provision of a service, it acts. And what's positive is that at no time could this situation pose a risk to children's health, at no time. And when this anomaly was detected, they developed systems that allowed, in some way, to continue feeding to children in school dining rooms, without any problems, from day one. I believe that the administrative resolution that was adopted once made the corresponding file, both in the dining rooms in the metropolitan area of Coruña – i.e. in Cambre and Culleredo – as well as in the area of the Arousa River, to some extent marked a system of action and marked a very clear master line: an administrative service that is providing itself, and is not providing itself according to the prayer and as it should be, therefore, obviously it must act. And the most important thing is that the next day he acted, and the meals were served in the centers where the contract was returned without any problems. And that's something positive, which speaks of the common sense of the companies that were serving, of the schools themselves, and also, in this case, of the Educational Administration. In any case, I repeat again, it's a complex service. These days there were examples very close to us where we could also detect problems. And what I'm blaming is next. A service is clearly questioned here when, councils of the same political party, of the same political formation, some of those who are blaming do the same system. That's what makes no sense and that's what makes us an incomprehensible situation. I believe that we must be responsible and that we must defend a system – in this case a system of dining – that works very well; that undoubtedly we must improve and, above all, we must be alert so that what we are interested in, which is the quality of service, is always maintained. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u400	Thank you very much, Mr. Rodríguez. [[Mr. Fajardo Recouso pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Mr. Fajardo seems to be in a hurry to leave now. Well, I'm saying, please, please do the favor, that we're finishing the plenary. [[Mr. Fajardo Recouso pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Da Eva Solla Fernández, G.P. of the Alternative Galaga de Left, on the characteristics of the convention signed between the Galician Union and the Amancio Ortega Foundation for the market of mammographs
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u401	Mrs. Solla has the floor to ask her question.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u402	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, Mr. Almuinha. Look, we've got less and less public health. The People's Party has been able to privatize virtually everything, and right now, apart from its own health personnel, there are few things left for us as they are one hundred percent public. In 2013, the Left-Galga Alternative denounced the privatization of high-tech that was emerging through a public-private partnership contract in a competitive dialogue of 88 million euros, a contract that was not – as it was moved on occasion – to buy radiology machinery, but it was a contract that also referred to maintenance and even the management and training of public professionals themselves. In 2015, you awarded the contract divided into three lots to Philips and Varian, two large companies, a contract of which we do not know yet today is in compliance with the legal nature of the present day as regards that mandatory and binding report that you had to deliver in relation to Royal Decree 8/2010 of 20 May, of extraordinary measures to reduce the public deficit, in which by its Article 16 it obliges precisely that pre-emptive report in public-private collaboration contracts that exceed 12 million euros. But, surprisingly, after granting this contract, in October you announced a kind of collaboration, a sort of agreement with the Amancio Ortega Foundation, so it seems that this foundation provided 17 million euros – we don't know what conditions – for the purchase of mammographs, something really surprising, because those mammographs were already included in that public-private collaboration, in that privatization that you previously granted Philips. In addition, we do not know the duration of this contract with Mr. Amancio Ortega, which the press tells us consists of – according to what you yourself have moved – an agreement – sorry – for eight years and for a value of 17 million euros. So we asked him today to move us here: what is the duration of that agreement? What's the object? Under what conditions did he sit? What is the type of contract, administratively speaking? And, of course, what does it have to do with that public-private partnership contract that you previously dealt with Philips? I beg you to reply, it will not be that it is going to do as it has happened with the Price Waterhouse report, or, for example, with the contract of Mrs Ana Sánchez, that you continue to refuse to provide it to this Member despite having requested it in the light of Article 9 of the Rules of Procedure of this House. Nothing else for now.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u403	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. The health adviser, Mr. Vázquez Almuínha, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u404	President, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Solla, good afternoon. In the U.S. government, the truth is, we have clear that the health care system is the patient, but we also have clear that in order to improve health services we have to bet on investment in health technology that acts as a support. It is therefore necessary to carry out and carry out an important effort in innovation in health technology. We intend, Your Honor – I'm sorry to turn your back on you, but the truth is that this posture is rather uncomfortable – to renew our health system by thinking about the morning and a health of excellence. In this environment we have developed an innovative management initiative, which we call a technology partner, whose objective is to provide the Galego Health Service with high-tech to increase – as I said before – the quality of care, improve the availability of equipment and more efficiently address the demand for diagnostic tests and therapeutic procedures that use these technologies. I would like to make it clear that your accusation that the Galician Union comes with this privatizing in May the high technology through this public-private partnership contract is not, as always, adjusted to reality. The accusation of privatization of the system by the opposition is an unfounded constant, it is a slogan that uses and repeats, and repeats, and repeats. In high-tech, it really doesn't exist. The procedure of the technology partner is a collaborative contract between the public and private sectors to provide a global solution that covers the needs of evidence and diagnostic procedures by image, interventionism, nuclear medicine and radiotherapy, which is called high technology, as you well know. The process was clear, clean, transparent and with all guarantees. Through this contract, Sergas pays for the use of the equipment, so the difference in how it's been done so far, it's no longer necessary to acquire the equipment and hire as much as possible the maintenance of these equipment. The collaboration contract between the public sector and the private sector allows the transfer of the risk of availability of the equipment to the technological partner, linking the payment of the benefits contracted to the effective functionality of the equipment used is transferred to the Galego Health Service. The care management of them remains for our workers, for the great professionals we have in the system. And already entering into what you ask me, the signing between the Amancio Ortega Foundation and Sergas is not a contract, and I see you have corrected it and you have already used the correct word, which is an agreement. Its object is to establish the collaboration between the said foundation and Sergas for the donation by the first of the amounts corresponding to the costs of technological updating of various equipment...,
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u405	Thank you very much, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u406	...to equip new linear accelerators and digital mammographs and necessary works...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u407	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u408	...of the equipping of the spaces.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u409	Answer in Part Two, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u410	As for the duration of the commissions...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u411	Counselor, your time is up. It goes on in part two. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u412	All right, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u413	You have the word to Mrs. Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u414	Counsellor, you see that we have differences in what we consider privatization, that's obvious. But look, the machinery is a private company, that the management of the machinery is a private company, that the repair is a private company, that the training of public professionals gives it a private company, that the private company decides when and how the material and machinery is renewed and, therefore, how much will it charge us, is this not a privatization, Mr. Almuña? For the truth is that your concept of public is excessively lax. But look, the truth is the contract was signed in 2015. I don't know if you're going to explain to me how this donation affects, this charitable health that you're so fans of, in that 88 million euro contract, whether it's going to come out cheaper or if, on the other hand, you're adding to this. But both are privatizations, because you weren't, but in 2013 I moved them what would cost us -- because we did the calculation -- to renew all teams over ten years old, and we fixed that price at 32 million euros. In that case, the teams would be of the Galego Health Service, the staff would be of the Galego Health Service and the repairs could carry them out the Galego Health Service; however, this is nothing of ours. And look, Sergas has 30 mammographs, only 9 of them are over fourteen, and 18 are over ten, Mr. Counsellor. In no way is what you have fixed in that contract or agreement – as you want to call it. So this is one more privatization. And in addition, it has an impact on the model change, where our health, instead of being financed through redistributive and progressive taxes, as stated in Article 31 of the Spanish Constitution, is rejected by the charity of multi-millionaire lords who dedicate themselves...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u415	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. Thank you very much. [[Mrs. Solla Fernández speaks words that are not perceived.]] Thank you very much. [[Mrs. Solla Fernández speaks words that are not perceived.]] [[Applause]] The health adviser, Mr. Vázquez Almuínha, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u416	Thank you very much, Madam President. As I said earlier, what we're talking about is that the new teams, through this agreement with the Amancio Ortega Foundation, are included in Lots 1 and 3, formalized by Sergas. It's in the relationship of public-private collaboration contracts – as I said – that you ask. As for the duration and conditions – which you also ask, because in the end it doesn't seem as interesting, but I'm going to comment on it – the Amancio Ortega Foundation will maintain over this duration of the annual agreement to meet the costs of updating or equipping the equipment included in these lots 1 and 3, as well as the execution of the necessary installations and works, as we have indicated above, all of this for a maximum amount of EUR 17 million. The convention shall be valid until 31 December 2023, and may be extended by mutual agreement of the signatory parties before the date of its completion until the achievement of its objective. When you talk about privatization, I say it's a slogan, because they repeat it continuously, and I don't know if you want Philips to be a public company; obviously, he can't be a public company. The health and all the new technology you also know – we won't have to talk only about what we use in health – but on any computer device today maintenance and updating is changing and changing in very little time. So, those calculations that you do as much as you can be what it costs today, but a mammogram and an accelerator are constantly changing, there are improvements in the market that need to be updated, and of course they're forced to do this way. I believe that, of course, we are very grateful for the approach made by the Amancio Ortega Foundation, because it is a world leader – I believe – that it achieves everything that can benefit from reinvesting it in Galicia in something as important as health. Of course, we're very happy because this relationship with a foundation can improve health services, which I think is what we're all trying to do, at least since the German Government. And what we don't understand is that the opposition is not collaborating and even commending the Government for this management. [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u417	Thank you very much, Counselor. Question by Juan Carlos González Santín and three other Members of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, about the exact cause of the massive outbreak of pharynxitis suffered by the student and part of the professor of the College of Child Education and Primary Feira do Monte, of the municipality of Caspeito
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u418	You have the floor, Mr. González Santín, to ask your question.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u419	Thank you, President. Counsellor, early October this year a college of Cospeit had an outbreak of tonsilitis. This, which in principle doesn't seem serious, takes another character when all these cases are concentrated in one school, affecting almost half of the students in the centre, in particular more than a hundred students, besides other people who also work in the center. The person responsible for this seems to be a bacterium called streptococcus. Last September 27 came the first isolated cases in children, those who diagnosed them with tonsilitis, but October 5 became 65 cases. Of 67 boys who went to the health center, 65 were diagnosed with amygdalitis. The situation was so abnormal that from the medical center he called the school to comment on the unusual situation that was happening. From the Territorial Delegation of Joining in Lugo it was pointed out that the Pediatric Service diagnosed two cases of scallatin among the students in the center. Scallatin is also a condition that is not serious and that requires a similar antibiotic treatment to that of amygdalitis. The students who attended the class and therefore were not affected were given a recommendation; this was the following: they do not directly consume billiard water in the school premises. In the dining room there is drinking water from the pool served in shers, without even the one at present no problem like what's going on here. The water comes from the municipal betrayer, which supplies several areas of the municipality, where no problems have arisen either. More than problems in the water consumed – which seem discarded, you will now tell me if that is true or not – the measure taken was better like a strategy to increase the hygiene in the center. In families with students enrolled in the centre this day, a feeling of a certain degree of tranquillity was recorded, as was evident at several meetings held in the center. You're criticized for not giving an official version of what's going on here. I think, Counselor, that that's what we need in this audience to clarify. I hope not to leave here today without you doing it, not for me, but for the families of Respect who are here today in the Plenary and following this intervention on the Internet. Sergas sources pointed out early in October that these are processes that are not serious, that are controlled and that respond well to treatment. The same reports announce that they were investigating the origin of the outbreak, that as soon as they arrived at the educational center, and how they have it there. I suppose the Council will be able to tell us something about this. The Board of Health and Education were working together, recalling also that this is a common and frequent disease, whose infection is not mandatory. I suppose, Counselor, that will be when 60 children are not affected and half of a school. Sergas indicated that in the face of the proliferation of these cases, what we have to do is find the solution and give the parents a solution. I think it's right. The question I ask you is, what was the exact cause and where is the focus of what happened at the School of Respect? Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u420	Thank you very much, Mr. Santín. The health adviser, Mr. Vázquez Almuínha, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u421	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. I'll try to summarize the facts of your question. On October 6th, the pediatrician of the Center for Health of Cospeito reported that he had attended the consultation on day 5 a higher number of the normal cases of pharyngomamygdalitis, which were positive when he had streptococcal bacillus, in children and children attending the public school of Coppeito. Right away from the notification, by staff of the General Directorate for Public Health Innovation and Management, the outbreak's investigation began. For this, data on the clinical characteristics, the start date of the symptoms, personal characteristics, the classroom attended by the class, the transport route, the dining room in the days before. The most frequent route of transmission of this microorganism is directly, from person to person, via airway when coughing, squirting or talking. Another less frequent route is the transmission through contaminated foods during their preparation by carriers of the microorganism in the pharynx and anxins or in wounds, whether or not they present symptoms of disease. Thus, and considering the possibility of this second route, a study of retrospective cuts was also designed, for which secondary students and students were selected, because in childhood and primary they have the obligation to eat all the dishes, so they would not be useful to discriminate between what foods could be affected. Similarly, health care personnel were asked to confirm cases that were used for consultation with a rapid streptococcal test and to collect samples from some of the positives to perform the crop. These samples were sent to the Microbiology Laboratory at Lugo Hospital, and the isolated strains were also sent to the National Microbiology Center for its more specific classification. On the other hand, information has also been collected on the method of processing the different foods prepared these days. No food samples were collected for their analysis, since by being the outbreak by a respiratory microorganism and until all the information was obtained that allowed to see the possible existence of a common source, it had already passed the maintenance time of witnesses, which is about five days. The results of the research were as follows: 62% of the student, 144; of the teacher, 3; 1 of the non-teacher staff, and 4 of the staff staff of the dining room – in particular – were affected. According to the start date of symptoms, there was initially a drop-out of cases between September 15 and October 1, with a total of 11 cases, all of them among the student, to then give a wave ranging from October 2 to October 6 – which was precisely what the pediatrician detected – with a peak on day 4 of 41 cases; and, to finish, with a new drop-out of cases between October 7 and November 8, with a total of 16 cases. The time distribution of cases is compatible with a mixed transmission mechanism from common source of food and also from one transmission person to competitor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u422	Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u423	The analysis of the data of the surveys carried out in the cut-off study indicates a greater risk of disease to the people who consumed the salad and the chicharros served on day 2 and 1 respectively, although the probability that the latter intervene in the transmission has less opportunity due to the type of preparation and hot service. I'm sorry for the reply, which I think is complete – and I'm trying to do it. And in the samples sent to the laboratory, the pyogenes A streptococcus was identified. The National Center for Microbiology has identified this as the M11 serotype, which is sensitive to penicillin and resistant to clanda, erythromycin and erythromycin. Thank you, gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u424	Thank you, Counselor. Mr. González Santín's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u425	Thank you, President. Counselor, you have reported the facts. I never doubted the work of the Councilmen, nor much less. What we want to know is what happened there and above all we want this not to happen again. You said the pediatrician in the center said there were more cases than usual. Man!, of 67 children, that 65 are positive in this disease is obviously something more than usual. What I want to tell you is that you said – or I understood your explanation – that this would end. And I, precisely, the Socialist Group brings this question here because our concern is another. It's just that this isn't over, it's not over, I mean, there's new cases. In fact, we, when this whole thing began, were worried about the subject from the beginning, and even made informal contact with the Councillor for Culture, Education and Universitary Order to interest us in what had happened in the center. But we hoped that the Health Council would have had sufficient diligence to eradicate this outbreak and also ensure that this would not happen again. But it turns out last Wednesday, November 11 – I've been talking to you about ten days ago, when we presented this initiative – we note with concern that at the CPI Virge do Monte, of Cospeito, new cases of this disease continued to be recorded, with a constant drop, according to the reports of ANPA representatives, who also confirm that there were at least 6 children affected by this disease again. So there were cases before the day that the peak of 60 people was recorded, of 60 students, but also later. In fact, the drip was almost continuous from that outbreak until now. Counsellor, parents have a right to know, lumens have a right to know, and you have an obligation to answer and give a health response to what is happening there, something that – I repeat – is not serious but is of concern to the people of Respect. That's why I ask you again: What was the exact cause? You told me. But, above all, is the focus eradicated or are we going to continue having drops of this disease in the same school of Respect? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u426	Thank you, Mr. Santín. The Health Counsellor has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u427	The truth is, Your Honor, I think we're here to give peace, not to alarm. I think the most important thing is that the embrace of Respect indicates that there's a system that works. There's a pediatrician who detects an important number of cases and from there a device that starts to work perfectly with a diagnosis that reaches the final diagnosis through the strain; by the way, a fairly frequent strain of Asian origin, but that's the most frequent one in our area. Faringoamigdalitis, as I said at the outset, is very common in society in general and here - as I said - has been detected from September to today, as you can say. There may be perfect, that's not the problem. The problem that detected the pediatrician who had been caring for people since September is that it was the normal frequency. It was precisely on day 6, because there he detected that there was a large increase in cases, not what you are talking about, that at this time he speaks of 6 – according to his news, not what I have – but that is quite usual. Faringoamigdalitis, as I say, is a respiratory transmission to cough and that's in society; it's not in school, it's in society in general, we don't talk about school. If I wanted to inform you, because I think it's important to say it: the system works perfectly, it's acted, it's given treatment, or it's corrected that outbreak. Logically, that's what the system is for, so, in case it happens, let's act. But tell him that water is not considered in this case a possible vehicle of transmission, because although it is described at some point that there are outbreaks through water, in this case the water was perfectly chlorinated, with which there is no risk of water. It's a matter that I think it's important to make clear. What we have to do is to follow – as we have said – by trying to detect, that there is early detection – as in this case the pediatrician – and that from there, Public Health begins to do research. And the research that concludes – which I was commenting on in the first phase of my exposure – is that it is possibly double: respiratory – oral transmission – and possibly due to contamination. That's what the hedge was, that big peak, and from there with treatment he answered perfectly and it's over. What can there be in Coppeito or anywhere else in Galicia faringoamigdalitis in children? It's very common and it'll still be there. What there has to be is when there's something that increases the frequency and that the number of cases comes out of what's established, and for that -- as I say -- the system works and will continue to work. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2015-11-25-DSPG132.u428	The agenda is run out, the session is up. Good night, thank you very much.
